ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 69th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of decisions of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted on 24 March 2021 and at the 99th meeting on 31 March 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janja Sluga, Monika Gregorčič from 2 p.m. on, Ferenc Horváth, mag. Branislav Rajić, Yuri Leprechaun, Dr. Franc Runček from 18:00 p.m., Michael Prevc to 16:00 p.m., Predrag Baković from 17:00 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application in the form of a video conference has not been announced by any Member or Member. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the findings of the audit report on the effectiveness of the purchases of protective and medical equipment to control the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Procedural proposal by colleague Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! You are probably aware that there are two other Commissions of Inquiry in addition to the plenary session of the National Assembly today, where our Members are also taking part. One commission of inquiry is also attended by the proposer of today's point, a person who should present this point in three minutes. Therefore, in the LMŠ Group, we consider this unacceptable and that this is an intentional act if this Commission of Inquiry is still under way. The continuation of this investigation group was called upon at 1300 hours. President, we have already discussed this in the College today and I ask that our Members be allowed to participate today in the plenary session and at the same time to allow them to do their work on the investigative committee. The only solution is that the two Commissions of Inquiry, one will continue at one time, the other will begin at two, will be suspended during the plenary session of the National Assembly. This precedent that the coalition convenes investigative commissions during the plenary session, when the opposition convenes an extraordinary meeting, thus impeding or forcing the opposition member to decide on their constitutional rights at which they will participate, is unacceptable. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or with any practice, I ask the gentlemen, or I propose that the National Assembly take a decision to suspend the Commission of Inquiry during a parliamentary session or a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Golubović, we have already spoken at the previous meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on this issue. Then I also spoke to certain services in the National Assembly. As regards the issue of the reference of the commissions of inquiry during the plenary session, this issue is not new. In fact, it started in the previous term and has obviously escalated to the point that one of the Members cannot participate in the plenary session, even though he wants to. The Rules of Procedure itself give no basis for the National Assembly to order the Commission of Inquiry or the working body to suspend its work. It is true, in the past, but I speak long ago, so more than a year ago, there was obviously a gentlemen's agreement in the National Assembly that there were no investigative commissions when there was a plenary session. For more than a year now, and I propose that we also discuss this at tomorrow's consultation, where we have already agreed on the subject of consultation, the distribution of jobs in the working bodies in order to discuss this. Today, I do not have any specific grounds, any legal basis in the Rules of Procedure, for preventing the work of the Commission of Inquiry. That's all I can say. Comrade Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u4	For us, that's unacceptable. Our member and proposer of today's meeting, who should present the content of this meeting, is on the committee of inquiry because he is responsible. Now he's coming up, which means you're making it impossible for him to be on an investigative committee where you've usurped yourself into investigating yourself, acquiring protective and medical equipment. In this way, it seems to me that the coalition deliberately, maliciously, undermines the work of the opposition and makes it impossible for our member of the commission of inquiry to raise questions with the interrogators. And there's something else to say. This meeting today was convened 12 days ago. Twelve days was the time for the hearings, the witnesses to be informed that it was being postponed for one day by the commission of inquiry, and you did not do so. And I wonder if we will interrupt this plenary session so that our member can attend and ask a question. And both, including the alternate member, participate in the debate today, and this is unacceptable, colleagues and colleagues, and this means a new practice that the opposition can also call on votes in this National Council of Inquiry and decide on important things there. That's not how it works. There was a gentlemen's agreement that the commissions of inquiry should be convened in emergency situations on Mondays between the parliamentary issues. We'd take it any other way. But to do so on purpose, agree to do so, to make a break, and at one point continue the session — if you continue at least two, not one at the same time — when you know that you should present our member, and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I promise we'll talk about this at the upcoming meeting. This issue also coincides with the fact that we have already established a whole bunch of investigative commissions in this reference, that it is difficult for them to get a seat in the halls, that some, so I have heard from the presidents, ask or provide room for a meeting one month in advance. This will probably require a longer-term solution in this area, which we can finally agree on in the law on investigative commissions, which we are preparing in essence. We're continuing our session. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. With regard to this proposal, the group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Robert Pavšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The problem remains open, even if we discuss it long and wide. Today we're just going to crucify between two hills. The Court of Auditors' report is much more than a review of the procurement procedures for protective and medical equipment. It is the first institutional and final, i.e. legal material on decommissioning and government savagery at the time of the epidemic. It exposes your understanding of power, your usurpation of regulations and institutions, and if you so deny it, your attitude towards ethics and decentness. Inextricably and shamelessly, allow yourself literally everything. And today is the time to look the truth in the eye and say to ourselves, this policy, this government, these individual members of the government, these are responsible not only for damaging public finances for private purposes, for their own interests, but also for all the consequences caused by narrowness, financial prudence. Soon it will be a year after we started a similar session with the words: "Holding of the Rest, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Self-Sufficient Lifesaver, Hero, Scale of Wisdom and Integrating Skills in Critical Weeks March and April of last year. Messiah.’ At that time, he tried to present the Minister of Intermediate in his reply to the allegations, which are only confirmed in the Court of Auditors’ report today. For my taste, it is quite unsuccessful, for I have taken the Minister's advocacy solely as a free file, with moral content, just as he is now doing in response to the Court of Auditors' report. Well, not just him. The whole government is trying to cover up, cover up, distract, misrepresent its image. Let us remember that with the communication plant, the pear spin, that we will all understand, the Restoration tried to relativize the auditor's findings, to wash away the responsibility of the guilt, when there is nothing burdensome in the report. And he did it? Not far. Perhaps he is merely an executor, although I highly doubt, I would rather say that he was a half-marionette, but therefore no less responsible, responsible objectively and subjectively, responsible for untransparent, unprofitable and for the electorate of profitable procurement and purchase of protective and medical equipment. Responsible objectively and subjectively for knowingly concealing facts, lying, scolding the truth, misleading the public, unethical customeristic conduct. Most of the suspicions, indications and disclosure of personal involvement in the procurement of equipment by public means have now been confirmed. And it follows that not only he, but the whole government is the least politically responsible. Or will it be proven, at least to any of the actors, any other responsibility, such as criminal responsibility, that is what others are dealing with. From what I've seen and what I've read, it's urgent. I only hope that the competent authorities, which have been handed over by the Court of Auditors on suspicions of criminal offences in 13 contracts, will be able to carry out their work without interference without pressure or attempts to influence, without sudden changes. Yes, a lot of words and arguments from the interpretation could be used today and so will we. Of course, with the findings and evidence gathered not only by the Court of Auditors but also by the other authorities. A year ago, we argued that the procedures for obtaining protective and medical equipment were imprecise, ineffective, that there were suspicions of corruption and that there was no idea who was actually deciding. Let's see what the report says: "The Court of Auditors has assessed that the Government, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Defence and the Institute, each within their competence, have not been effectively organised in the procurement and procurement of necessary protective and medical equipment. The procurement procedures were therefore not carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of providers of protective medical equipment. In some cases, however, procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts.” End of story. If we translate this, at least the last sentence, they acted unlawfully. We're not surprised. In public, there were always warnings that a lot of things were going wrong. Remember the masks for the general population imported by Kmezad – TMT. Anex also concluded after there was no more panic, as the planes had already flown over Slovenia. Nevertheless, the company received almost EUR 14 million for masks for the general population. Remember the masks with the tires of Korez – Sorting Group, which are now lying in storage. Remember Akron, who imported the most protective equipment, and remember GeneEplanet, who imported useless precursors for the country. Let me remind you what good golf we bought. So good golf that on the day the second wave of the epidemic was declared on 19 October, out of 148 fans purchased, at least 110 were unfit for the treatment of patients. Three quarters of the purchase was useless. So much for saving lives. Most of these companies have never appeared among suppliers of protective or medical equipment before, but most of these companies had known or close to the Government. More. The Court of Auditors found that in several cases the various persons who were not employed at the Institute were provided by the Director of the Institute and other senior staff, I quote, “the specific instructions on which to conclude the contract with and under what conditions, or on what conditions, the whole procedure for obtaining and handling tenders was carried out by third parties”. End of story. Is this effective, impartial or even transparent? The question, of course, is rhetorical. And we have to deal with this report again today because the government saved lives. With the help of ministers, Members, former politicians, of course with the blessing of Janez Janša, the government has established an extremely opaque system and has left at home entire teams of people who knew and were able to obtain equipment. But they knew something more, especially they knew who the reliable seller was and what we could actually expect. On the other hand, the government knew that more could be done by informal groups of selected individuals, who were carefully chosen by politics. Of course for the rights, our companies. You've moved your powers, then you've scattered them even more, it's a little bit more written, it's called, it's raised tones, instructions, drama, urgency, references to wrong data, false numbers in principle: all due to everything, no one responsible for anything, or - God forbid! Even guilty. What's more than imprecise is this elaborate system of yours, your triangle: the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Economy, the Institute. Is this system anything other than a pre-planned hand-washing manoeuvre if it needs to be washed? Other than impreciseness, the e-mails of the secretary of state, the spouses and someone else, or the phone calls of some of the politically declassified ones. And why did that suit you? You already know why. We're just figuring it out. In view of the fact that you were able to hide things in the wake of this impreciseness. Let me refresh my memory. Remembrance of the 18th March last year, when Minister Restovalšek calls the Director of the Public Service and orders him, within two hours, three hours, he will have a bank guarantee for this Bitenec. But the point is, he's gonna have to get the deal, and you pay him now. Just the day before, Jelka Godec, then a member of Parliament, wrote to the Institute, MGRT and the Ministry of Health that the informal expert group had positively assessed five educators. After all, none of those that Mrs Godec had burned were purchased. He was bought the sixth, for which he gave a total of seven minutes an assessment by a completely third party. On 16 March, however, former politicians, i.e. natural persons, according to the Prime Minister's instructions, at least themselves, threaten to lose their jobs. In line with these threats, the Institute enters into a contract with Dobnik trada, the only company that has received an advance for something other than predators. Everything I described, and more than that, we knew a year ago. We don't know much more today. And what happened? Nothing. Although at least two, namely Minister Počvalško and the Secretary of State in the cabinet of Prime Minister Godcheva, are politically responsible for impermissible interference with the public system and intervention for private companies is clearly proven. But nothing happened. And these are just three, in my opinion and belief not so lonely, cases. Several individuals and businesses have made a good profit on the basis of the crown. The government led by Janez Janša, Zdravek Restoralski, Matthew Tonin and others allowed this looting of tax money not only to enable him but also to encourage him. Today we will consider the first integral document that has fully exposed the octopus of so-called purchases of protective and medical equipment. And it wasn't just about the acquisitions. Actually, it was a lot more than that. I know what we're going to hear in your speeches. You'll be repeating famous and broken phrases, such as empty warehouses, rifles in corn. We will also hear that the President of the Court of Auditors is unfit to make observations. But most of all, you will repeat the mantras of life-saving. Of course, all this splintering and unconvincing defense is denied by empirical findings, numbers, cash flows, e-mails. While you were supposedly saving lives, more than ten million of our taxpayer’s money, people’s money, disappeared into various pockets of friends and acquaintances. While you were supposedly saving lives, your purchases caused more than four thousand people to die at home and at home and because of your neglected concern for the vulnerable. And after all this you have a responsible face and conscience to boast about how you have provided thousands of additional new beds in homes for older citizens, how you financially help people, how you have taken care of vaccines, tests, rewards in health care. You'll be comforted to be doing a great job. It's not a good comfort. The truth is different: you have created an excellent situation for you people and businesses close to you. You know, it's all coming back, it's all paying off. And that. There is no doubt that the government and its coalition minority are still doing business for their own interests and benefits – not for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On 31 March 2021, the Committee on the Economy considered the draft recommendation as the working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the recommendation of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mateja Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u8	Your Honor! The Committee on the Economy is at its 31st urgent session. 3. 2021 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the findings of the audit report The effectiveness of purchasing protective and medical equipment to control the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory explanation, the representative of the applicant presented the key findings of the audit report and the reasons for the submission of the proposal for a recommendation to be considered by the National Assembly. In doing so, he stressed that the procurement procedures were not carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers, and in some cases even in non-compliance with the rules and other acts. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in a supplementary explanation of the written opinion on point 3 that the prosecution of the perpetrator of the offences was within the exclusive competence of the state prosecutors who are independent and therefore the Government does not have jurisdiction in the prosecution. With regard to point 6, she pointed out that it was not a measure to be taken by the Government which could be the subject of a recommendation. In addition, the call on the Prime Minister or ministers to resign is not within the competence of the National Assembly. The Secretary of State with MGRT Simon Zajc presented the Government's written opinion, stressing that the greatest problem at the time of purchase of equipment was the non-useability of existing regulations and strategic or implementing documents to carry out needs assessment and purchases of protective and medical equipment. He recalled, however, that the government had started to work in a situation where the system was inadequate and the supplies were empty, but had managed to obtain a sufficient amount of necessary protective and medical equipment. He pointed out that the audit report did not give rise to any apparent damage to public funds or to the conclusion of non-usable equipment. With regard to the content of the proposal, he detailed the reasons why the Government considers that the points of the proposal are unnecessary, unreasonable or unfounded. He further stressed that the Institute’s cooperation with the Court of Auditors was good at the time of the audit. In the debate, some members expressed the view that the chaotic situation and problems in supply chains should not be an excuse for blurring transparency, dispersion of powers and the conduct of inadequate, non-transparent and ineffective procurement procedures. The discussers also called for the search for evidence, proof and monitoring of liability for errors made, in terms of infringements of legislation and damage to public funds. In doing so, they stressed the need to adopt recommendations for measures to prevent the recurrence of such errors in the future. On the other hand, it was pointed out in the debate that the findings of the audit report are based on performance criteria which are more legal than economic in nature. The view was also expressed that in the circumstances at the time the government could not act optimally because it was faced with a chaotic situation on the world equipment market and did not have the necessary information and useful strategic or implementation documents to carry out the procedures. In these circumstances, procedures have therefore not been conducted in an optimal manner. The view was also expressed that the Court of Auditors’ recommendations for action were rather vague and that action was largely left to auditors. The debate noted that the situation had revealed weak governance points during the crisis and that a proposal had also been made to improve the future crisis management of the country. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the proposal and did not adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u9	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members, good afternoon! Initially, the Government points out that recommendations that were not voted on by the Committee do not reflect the actual situation, with some recommendations even making sense or unnecessary. A single recommendation, or explanation, overlooks the substance of the Court’s audit report. The subject of the audit is the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves in the period from 1. 1. 2020 until the draft audit reports are issued, that is up to 30. 12. 2020. This includes the conduct of the previous 13 governments, as well as the current governments of the Republic of Slovenia and all the institutions mentioned above. One of the key findings of the Court of Auditors is, I quote: “The urgent purchases of essential protective and medical equipment were carried out in the context of the creation of supplies reserves or replacements of already used equipment in stores. It has been shown here that the procedures laid down in the Law on Freight Reserves and other existing regulations or strategic or implementing documents have not been established in such a way as to be useful for the effective assessment of equipment needs to be procured and distributed to relevant users in exceptional circumstances without delay. The existing basis did not allow for the effective conduct of auditors in carrying out needs assessment, as it was not clear in advance who was responsible for determining the type and quality of equipment to be provided additionally for certain relevant users, who and how to collect data on equipment stocks and who and how to assess the quantitative needs for certain types of equipment. It was also not clear in advance who set out the methodology for determining the necessary quantities of equipment to be obtained additionally. However, despite this weakness of system regulation, some revisions have been activated.” End of quote. It follows from the above that the primary problem in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment itself is the applicability of the existing regulations at that time, which have not been able at all to effectively carry out the assessment of the needs of protective and medical equipment. Thus, it was not clear how and who was monitoring the state of stocks and what and how much to obtain. As a result, the individual shareholder could not be prepared for activation in advance. It should be borne in mind that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not established until 13 March, i.e. at a time when the Coronavirus was in full swing around the world, and so it was only because of this fact that the situation was exceptional, i.e. independent of inadequate system regulation. In addition, it should be borne in mind that at the time of the appearance of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the former Government carried out a negligible number of deliveries and did not try to remedy inadequate system arrangements. The Court of Auditors also states, quote: “The Ministry of Health has been in the three-day period since 11. 3. 2020 to 14. 3. 2020 concluded one contract for the supply of masks which has not been implemented. In addition, it issued eight other orders for the supply of protective equipment and two fans. However, the Ministry of Health of Public Procurement has not been fully effective since it has not concluded contracts with suppliers in all cases and has not applied procedures in accordance with public procurement rules. In addition, it paid an advance without insurance and in some contracts it risked that the equipment purchased would be technically inappropriate.” End of quote. Thus, the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the state of emergency and inadequate system regulation, had to start its work in empty stocks. The Government points out that it is important to take into account that the Court of Auditors has also shown as positive that some auditors have been activated. For example, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which has provided its assistance, has been activated. As the Court of Auditors points out, it was 14 years old. 3. 2020 to 1. 6. The 64 contracts concluded in 2020. This undoubtedly represents effective behaviour, since it was so possible that the stocks were no longer empty and that adequate protective and medical equipment was supplied, in sufficient quantities. In view of the above, they do not hold a flat-rate statement that the word “ineffective” should be the basic message of the Accountancy Report. It is not even possible to conclude this from the selectively collected partial copies of the individual paragraphs of this report submitted by the candidates for the extraordinary meeting. Allow me to briefly touch on the individual recommendations that have been proposed on the Committee, but not voted on, because I feel that I still need them. Recommendation No 1 concerning immediate action in accordance with the recommendations and corrective actions of the Court of Auditors resulting from the audit report is unnecessary. The Court of Auditors has already set a time limit of 90 days for individual auditors under point 5 of the report, in which the auditors will also submit a response report to the Court of Auditors. The auditors to whom the Court of Auditors has made recommendations are already examining and acting on individual recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Recommendation No 2 was also unnecessary as it related to corrective action No 1 already established by the Court of Auditors to the Government, which has to implement the corrective action in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, for economic development and technology and for defence within 90 days of receipt of the audit report. Individuals are studying the recommendations that belong to their portfolio and are preparing measures. With regard to the first and second recommendations, it would point out that it is necessary to take into account the fact that a long-term systemic problem, where appropriate changes to the rules and documents of planning and implementation need to be ensured primarily, is not, or is not possible, to implement all recommendations in a partial manner without taking into account any relevant systemic changes. However, I can say that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves have already taken certain remedial measures or have taken into account recommendations relating to each area. In the course of the audit, the Ministry of Health has also set out in more detail the procedures for identifying stocks and assessing health needs in the plan of activities of the Ministry of Health 2020. According to the Government, the third recommendation was also unnecessary. Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February on the procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC and the national law on public procurement also lays down the methods of procurement procedures and the conduct of contracting entities in cases of purchase in exceptional circumstances. In cases where the conditions for the execution of the contract are met in so-called exceptional circumstances, the government shall carry out the procurement procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, as a rule for the application of Article 46(1) and Article 46(8), respectively, which shall refer to the public procurement of equipment, techniques and other public procurements in order to ensure the basic conditions for survival or life or to prevent immediately the occurrence of direct threatening damage in the event of a natural or other accident. In order to make it easier to understand it, it is necessary to clarify that in the ordinary course of business, contracting authorities generally serve an open procurement procedure within which the minimum time limit for receipt of tenders in accordance with Article 40(2) of the ZJN-3 is normally 35 days from the date on which the notice of procurement was sent for publication. In addition, the time needed to take a decision on the award of the contract should be added. This means that, from publication itself to decision, it shall take a minimum of 40 days or more without taking into account any audit requests. Taking into account the market circumstances during the first epidemic and the state of the medical and protective supplies left by the previous government, the current government, in order to ensure the right to health care referred to in Article 51 of the Republic of Slovenia, could not conduct procedures as at the time of the normal situation, but it was essential to make use of the exceptions provided for in Article 46 of the ZJN-3, which allowed for a faster and more effective response to the market situation. However, this method was also used by the previous government by decision of 11. 3. when ordering the Ministry of Health to carry out the procedures referred to above. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the audit report does not address or identify any corruption risks or abuses in a single word. In the entire text of the audit report, the words corruption or exploitation do not appear. It is so obvious that the third recommendation is not related at all to the findings of this report. With regard to the 4th Recommendation, which was not only unnecessary but also unnecessary, as all auditors cooperate with all supervisory authorities to the greatest extent, it is appropriate to point out the latter, which was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly: the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences is in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Criminal Procedure in the exclusive jurisdiction of state prosecutors who are independent in the conduct of prosecution, and the Government does not have any powers in the course of prosecution. In addition, I would like to point out that the audit report does not mention any non-cooperation of any official or public official, nor does it have the competence to identify any responsibilities. The responsibility of individuals shall be assessed by other institutions, and in the context of those procedures the authorities must also respect the principles provided for in the Constitution. The Court of Auditors' essential observation is not the imprudent normative basis adopted in times of emergency, but the existing permanent systemic inadequacy, which is by no means the responsibility of the current government. Recommendation No 6 was, in the opinion of the Government, completely pointless. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly itself initially pointed out that that recommendation does not contain measures for the work of the Government, but only measures for the work of the Government can be the subject of recommendations. The audit report does not even give any indication of the direction of damage to public funds, nor does it conclude on unused equipment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Every time Janez Janša is in power, commission goes to heaven. First of all, the arms trade in the '90s. Second, with Patria's affair. Well, under the government's third, there's a supply of protective equipment. Yes, for money and power, Janez Janša is willing to exploit the entire epidemic and the hardships of the people in it. The Court of Auditors' report revealed something that we all already knew. By purchasing protective equipment, the government of Janez Janša fed its intermediaries and cut commissions, but it did not save lives. The aim was not to protect the population, but to protect corruption. The report is eloquent enough on this subject. It was bought on average and over, in cowboy. If I only point out a few observations by the Court of Auditors: equipment without appropriate certificates was purchased, contracts were concluded under less favourable conditions than they were introduced in the tenders, contracts were signed without offers, equipment was first taken over in some cases, then contracts were signed and so on. The chaos of the government of Janez Janša does not really deny, it relativizes it so much, they have saved lives, all countries have found themselves in a similar situation, no one has been prepared, there have been extraordinary equipment seizures for other countries that have been ordered and so on. These claims may in themselves have a rhetorical effect, but they also have a slightly different light on their report. We can understand from the findings in this report that all the Texas described started after the establishment of an interdepartmental government group to assist in procurement. In the translation that it could be fished in mud, it was necessary to scale the trough first, and this happened according to instructions from the government summit. So the dispersion was created, and it was created deliberately and consciously. Why? Yes, because commissions are not cut off on their own, or, as I say from the beginning, acquisition of protective equipment is the organised crime of the government of Janez Janša. Let us add that this organised crime is not capable of even concealing the spring of its acute incompetence. Instead, he's dealing with something else. If ladies and gentlemen of the government can keep the whole country alive as they prey on public finances, at least government officials must be protected from persecution. How? Hitting the police. It is no wonder, therefore, that the general director of the police was replaced by the government at its first meeting on 13 March last year. Then quickly followed the exchange of the first criminalist, which became SDS official Vojko Urbas, previously involved in sexual harassment by a specialist in wiretaps and other special methods. In the third step, the government also headed the Slovenian FBI, the National Bureau of Investigation, and later placed Petra Grah Lazar, a friend of Rok Snezic, the main liaison between Janez Janša and criminal associations. At the peak of the year, unruly police officers who do not want to terrorize people for SDS purposes were sent to the penal department. Ladies and gentlemen, at work, it is not only the protection of organised crime of authority that we can monitor, or we can monitor, the acquisition of protective equipment. Crime connected to the SDS network has a much longer beard. For example, the NPU investigated the financing of the SDS network from Orbanova Hungary. And this is an investigation that Prime Minister Janez Janša wants to bury in every way. A specialist in special methods placed at the top of the crime scene is in an ideal position to mount a police investigation against political opponents and to sweep past crime under the carpet. What SDS operations by the police look like, let's give one concrete example. The current SDS Member, Franz Breznik, who is the former Esdees secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, under which the police belong, has met with suspected drug traffickers from this function as secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. I'm talking about Derba Bananas of Izeto Rastoder, who are under the roof of the police for drug trafficking. After this meeting, we remember Mr. Breznik was drunk as a cork sitting behind the wheel. I find this situation difficult to explain to myself in a different way than trade. It is said that the abandonment of organised prosecution against drug traffickers in exchange for indirect financing of the SDS network from cocaine commissions, for example. In short, the impact on the police, whose elements I describe, is the deep state of SDS, which through such acts comes to light. Of course, this deep state of government officials, Janez Janša, who are in power, will not accuse or condemn, which is the key objective of police maneuvering the SDS, or, if we translate this defensive stance into the offensive use of the police, the SDS has subordinated the police to this extent, it is obvious that in some cases it can be used in the form of a strong fascism related to the current report, for example, by means of a structured investigation, it has sent it to the President of the Court of Auditors, who is responsible for the report at today's hearing. The technology used by the government of Janez Janša to share public money with their friends is not the only thing we find in this report. The city is also troubled by the fact that a number of individuals who had nothing to look for were involved in the purchase. Let's think about the specifics involved. The target, a volunteer lobbyist of Minister Restovalska, was patrolling corruption smoothly. Former SMC Member Andrej Potočnik squabbled at employees. For a particular company, Urška Báčovnik Janša, a partner of the Prime Minister, regulated the contract. Marijan Podobnik, an accomplished satellite of the far right, threatened Janša and Restovalski if Dobnik Trade does not get the job. Well, somewhere along came the name Jelka Godec, former MP and current SDS secretary. NSi-Lojza Peterle regulated the contract for his daughter's company and Matthew Tonin from the same party provided 30 million with the company in which his mother was employed. Let us not forget about Alenka Jeraj, the current SDS Member, also known as Kopriva, who also knocked on the door of the Department of Freight Reserves. Everyone listed, and anyone else, says today that they wanted only to help Slovenia. Yeah, well, who wouldn't help with the 16.6 million commissions or even the 143% margin that Tonin's Acron accounted for, for example? The MD Global Logistics received a 10-fold annual turnover, although its owner is Fursov's debtor. There are almost as many examples of pressure and crime in government as there are contracts. The most representative of all business may be to gloat a deal from the GeneEplanet and its fans. “We will give them something from the SDS” as the whistleblower Gale refers to Minister Restovalska. In view of the overestimated and inappropriate purchase of the Siriusmed R30 model, Dr. Richard Knafelj of UKC Ljubljana, who participated in the section, pointed out in the Tarč show. But since he did not like the opinion of the profession, the Minister of Rest immediately sought a second opinion that did not fit him again. So he tamed the truth a little bit to cover up the feeding of the right intermediary and buy the goods that the geneEplanet can get, regardless of whether it's useful at all. You know, they bought golf, not Mercedes, people died, they saved lives, they waited until Christmas and stuff. In fact, the golf of Minister Restoration is not even driving. If they were used for covid-19 patients, the infection would be extended. They ended up in the UKC basement before Christmas. The second element of creating chaos in which state millions can draw on themselves was the decision to buy equipment through intermediaries instead of direct interstate procurement, as we have always advocated and proposed in Levica. When specific favourable offers for direct purchases began to appear without intermediaries and through an interstate agreement, and most countries in Europe have concluded such transactions, the Ministry of Restoration is quoted as follows: «Republic of Slovenia or the Institute of Trade Reserves cannot carry out direct financial transactions in China, as it can only deal with Slovenian suppliers. This is not the decision of this government, but it is a matter of law in force.” A lie, thicker than a commission to protect suppliers. There is no legal restriction under which the Ministry justified the decision to purchase through intermediaries. The government of Janez Janša had every legal opportunity to buy equipment without intermediaries and without commissions, but she deliberately made a different choice. This is already then and immediately confirmed by the Court of Auditors, whose report we are considering today. As a result of this information, the ministry of Mr Počvalska continued with the following quote: "In addition, most Chinese companies require a 100 % prepayment, which the institution does not use for the possibility of abuse and unsafe supplies." Well, that was a fat lie, too. 100 % advance payments, as advances were also received by supplier companies. We could have intercepted a phone call like this: “In two or three hours he will have a bank guarantee for this Beatenac and Bitenc will have to get the deal and you pay now”. So on March 18th, Minister Resteršek on the phone ordered an advance to the Department of Freight Reserves, as we could hear on the tape of the phone call. Two weeks later, the same minister, Restorationšek, in public on the subject of advances, continued to lie heavily. I quote again: "We only pay when we take over, and I will not allow public funds to be misused at the expense and harm of Slovenian taxpayers and to take advantage of war profiteers who see in this only an opportunity for profit." End of quote. Thus, we can also see from this entry point that the objective of the purchase of equipment was not to provide the population with the rapid and economic supply of the protective equipment that was in bloody need, but rather to the basic objective of the commission. Therefore, for example, offers that allowed direct purchases and regulated logistics were immediately placed in a drawer by government officials. A fine example is the offer of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which would save up to €40 million. Not to mention a well-known offer to the public about the intervention of Alexander Cheferin at Jack May. The only reason they refused was because the real suppliers didn't deserve it, and then Chaferin was attacked furiously by SDS media. To the conclusion. Not for you, as the SDS has already lied in its voting slogan, this government is working exclusively for itself. He's been cutting up millions on a few ten-million-dollar piece of protective equipment. What happens if the government realises the budgetary threats and signs arms contracts for three quarters of a billion euros. These military acquisitions must be prevented. In the Court of Auditors report and in the case of purchases of protective equipment, we can see why. The government of Janez Janša is particularly interested in how to use access to public finances to finance their own network, their own satellites and their own friends in the economy. Of course, in a few times the larger arms business, there will be no difference. But there is one fundamental difference between masks and fans on the one hand and armor on the other - masks are needed, but not armor. But the government would like to buy them on their noses. That is also why it must be removed from power and retained by the authorities once and for all. When Janez Janša and his friends are in power, corruption, the privatisation of public finances as a rule, and not as a side effect of his rule. This, however, is something that Slovenia does not need. Public finances are here to work for the public benefit. There's only so much more to the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia, Europe and the world have been forced to face the challenges that have fundamentally changed our actions, opinions and even our perception of life. Ensuring human dignity is a fundamental principle that, in our view, has led to the consequences of the epidemic, including efforts to provide protective equipment, which is a fundamental condition for protecting human lives in the epidemic. In order to understand the situation in relation to the state and needs of protective equipment last year, it is necessary to understand the situation on the day it took responsibility. After the resignation of the previous government in the most difficult times after independence, where citizens and citizens were left at great risk, and at the same time called for elections, in New Slovenia we were prepared to overcome the disagreement and to co-create a new government. The new Slovenia and the whole government have already taken the necessary measures on the first day of their appearance, which have significantly contributed to very good and encouraging results in the fight against covida-19 virus. Christian Democrats are aware of the forms of effort that has to be made by every citizen who has faced the epidemic and its consequences in these times of crisis. A sincere thanks to civil protection, to all health workers, mayors, firefighters and all the volunteers who have unselfishly stepped together and saved Slovenia from the worst consequences. Unfortunately, heart rate is not enough in the fight against the virus, but it is also necessary to fight an invisible enemy with protective equipment. Nevertheless, our warehouses of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves were almost empty when handed over with protective equipment. The stock was not sufficient for the urgent need in the Republic of Slovenia or for one day. Not for a day. The following facts are worth repeating here. On 16 March 2020, 93 thousand 500 masks, 2 thousand masks FFP1, 1 thousand masks FFP2, 3 thousand 400 masks FFP3, 1 million 514 thousand 380 latex gloves, 8 thousand 649 protective suits and 374 protective glasses were available at the Roja State Logistics Centre. Despite the fact that the World Health Organization had already warned in the early days of March that supplies of protective medical equipment were rapidly decreasing due to increasing demand, accumulation of equipment, and abuse. However, the government of Marjan Šarc did not listen to this and did not provide adequate spare protective equipment. In a statement on 25 February, the Slovenian Medical Chamber also expressed its fears and concerns about the state of supply of protective equipment. At that time, Prime Minister Sarec responded with almost a mocking voice, quote: “It’s like saying that police officers are afraid of firearms.” This further points to Mr Sarc's attitude towards this issue and further explains the reasons for the lack of equipment for health personnel in the period following the pledge of the new government. World demand for masks, however, has several times exceeded global production since the change of the executive branch, which has not, of course, facilitated the efforts of the new government to provide essential equipment, and the price and availability of protected equipment has changed from minute to minute. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in which we were at the time and the crazy situation on the world market in the purchase of equipment, so we agreed with the opposition parties that the government must prepare a comprehensive report, which we have already discussed in this house. In the parliamentary group, we have carefully read the report on the procurement of equipment, which has been prepared by several ministries and has highlighted some essential and relevant data. The former government underestimated the threat of the epidemic and the consequences for Slovenia were much worse than they could have been. As a result, much harder efforts and more stringent measures were needed to combat the epidemic, which is and will lead to a larger economic crisis than it would otherwise have. In hospitals, we had a significant lack of intensive care beds when confronted with an epidemic. The government has made great efforts to ensure that the current government has been successful in providing equipment, and as a result our warehouses have been complete and medical personnel have been reassured that such equipment shortages will no longer be faced. We believe that there was also a mistake in the purchase of equipment, the times were really difficult, the equipment was gone, and we could say that there was a wild west on the world market. Therefore, it is also understandable what a critical word on the part of the Court of Auditors. It is interesting, however, that today such Members, such as the Members of the parties to whom the Court of Auditors has criticized their campaigns, are also very critical. Mistakes happen, I understand, but I don't think it's fair that the Court's findings in this way are only one way. In the Slovenian media and political space, during the epidemic, we were faced with evidence of crimes. However, some in this national assembly were very easy to accuse others with harsh words. It is also worth noting that the Court of Auditors’ audit report does not reveal any evidence of damage to public funds or the conclusion of unused equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u16	Your Honor! On 13 March 2020, following the resignation of the Sharčev government, the current government took over the government in Slovenia. This was only the day after the outbreak was declared in Slovenia. During this time, the virus has spread widely around the world, causing the death of thousands of people a day. This day, 141 cases of infections have already been identified in Slovenia. It was a time when the present dangers were being realized almost all over the world. All prepared in such a way or other way to face this deadly virus. In Slovenia, however, we awaited an epidemic with empty warehouses of protective and other emergency medical equipment. The current government has had to face one of the biggest challenges of recent times, a challenge for which time constraints could not be prepared. People's fears and hardships were greater from day to day. In hospitals, the staff were operating with inadequate protective equipment, wondering if there would be enough beds, ventilators and other medical equipment for them. During this time, many Slovenians have thought only about how we can help stop the epidemic. Competents at all levels tried to provide the necessary protective equipment, thereby correcting the damage caused by the past government's passiveness and irresponsibility. The current government has acted operationally, cognizant ministerial types and has joined society in the fight for the acquisition of essential medical and protective equipment. What a paradox and swindle! You who prefer the peaceful protection of the opposition are now bitterly looking for the culprit for the situation. You're attacking with all possible means at all levels. By doing so, you are taking advantage of the situation that has arisen for political accounting. This is completely incorrect for all citizens of Slovenia. Instead of supporting them in these times, you sow doubts and mistrust in professional decisions. Let us not forget that, before 12 March 2020, the government of Marjan Sarca was in power, which did very little for effective action in the epidemic. During this time, the Ministry of Health has concluded only one mask delivery contract, which has not been implemented, and eight contracts for the supply of protective equipment and two fans. On 27 February, the Government adopted a decision on the use of items from stocks, which were mostly empty. Although the leaders in the country already knew what was at stake with us in January, they planned early elections rather than obtaining protective equipment. The findings of the audit report clearly show that there was a prima facie problem in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment in the applicability of the existing regulations at the time. These did not allow for an effective assessment of the needs of protective and medical equipment. It was not clear how and who was monitoring the stock and what and how much to get. By the end of its term of office, the former government has not systematically regulated the monitoring and assessment of stocks in stocks, including medical and protective equipment. All these are the reasons why the findings signed under the request for the convening of today’s extraordinary meeting are unfounded. However, if we also point out that only the current government has ensured the supply of sufficient quantities of protective and medical equipment and the completion of supplies reserves, we can only understand these indications as creating a political crisis in a crisis that goes beyond all of us. In a crisis that should be dealt with in a uniform way, regardless of the different views, views and beliefs we have. Some of us have done this, and others, for the price of political likeness, you also call extraordinary meetings today, you put in interpolations, constructive non-trusts, constitutional accusations, everything is legitimate. Today, to relativize the situation in which the government has acted and to condemn or attack their work on average is unrealistic and irresponsible. Individual ministers, officials and some other civil servants have put themselves in a position to deal with the crisis, this crisis, too, has been highlighted personally and it is not right for us to carry out a political lynching on them. It is right for all the competent services, the law enforcement authorities, the anti-corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors to carry out their work professionally. Only on the basis of their findings will we be able to demand the political responsibility of individuals. We wonder if, in the case of acquittals before criminal courts and other proceedings, you will apologize for all the pustule that has been spilled. It is time for all of us to take a reasonable view of the events of the past year and view them in the spirit of that time. Knowledge, however, should serve us to act in the future. We have not supported the recommendation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which exposes a lot of things. In a report published on 18 March, the Court of Auditors found that the Government, the Ministry of Health, the economy and defence, and the Department of Trade Reserves in the acquisition of protective equipment were not effective. The Court of Auditors has, of course, taken into account the exceptional circumstances in its audit, but has nevertheless found that three ministries and the Department of Commerce have not acted effectively in the procurement of emergency protective equipment. More than obviously, the purchase of protective equipment was not about saving lives, as the current government likes to interpret it, but about war profit. The Court of Auditors concluded that the implementation of the procurement procedures during the audit period had not been effective since the main conduct of the procurement procedures had been abandoned and that the implementation of the public procurement procedures had moved in particular away from the principles of transparent management of the procedures, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers. The inefficiencies of behaviour have been reflected both in the assessment of the need for protective medical equipment and in the procurement of protective and medical equipment. In the opposition, we have made recommendations to the Government on these findings, which the Committee of the National Economic Assembly has rejected for the most part. Among other things, we have recommended that the Government take action in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations to prepare amendments to the rules that will provide the appropriate basis for dealing with emergency situations and not take advantage of exceptional circumstances in order to establish non-transparent procurement systems. The fact is, things simply need to get to the bottom, and individuals must also be held accountable for their actions. Taxpayers' money must be treated transparently, effectively and in the spirit of a good master at all times, and in this story public money was no longer under control. He wasn't. There are also no more secrets about family and friendly purchases, purchases of excessive numbers of fans, masks without adequate quality and type of imprudentity in procedures. The assessment of equipment needs was largely unorganised, non-systematic and uneven. In addition, entities that did not have the appropriate basis for assessing the needs were involved. On the shoulders of the taxpayers, some apparently filled their own pockets, while ministers were well aware of the role of procurement and logistics referees. Let me remind you that at the time of the first anti-Korona package adopted in the SAB, we proposed, as a first step, special parliamentary supervision, which would have kept an eye on the use and allocation of public money. In the second anti-korona package, we went a step further and proposed the establishment of a specific budget fund, with which at any moment we would be able to tell exactly how much money we have earmarked for the resolution of the crisis, of course for all purchases. In this way, the use of public money would be checked, since it is too late to ring the bell. We're not getting our money back. Now we can only see why the funds were not spent transparently and economically. Since this was such a large public financial package, the control we proposed at the beginning of the epidemic in the SAB would be absolutely necessary, necessary and justified. We believe that this would prevent a number of irregularities in the purchase of protective equipment and that we probably would not be sitting here today discussing irregularities in the purchase of protective and medical equipment. In the SAB, we have repeatedly pointed out that the current coalition has abused the epidemic at the expense of which certain individuals have uncontrolledly spent public funds. As I have already said, it is necessary to save in times of crisis, not to spend taxpayers' money. Finally, it was not a coincidence that the first man of the Court of Auditors had been discredited just before this report on the acquisition of protective equipment was published. The management of SDS, New Slovenia and SNS is completely inappropriate and planned to divert public attention from contested government transactions to undermining the reputation and credibility of the work of the Court of Auditors. The latter enjoys high confidence in the public when it comes to independent institutions, and the government has put pressure on its president in particular to place its own irregularities under the carpet. Someone will have to be responsible for the faults in the acquisition of equipment, and this is not the President of the Court of Auditors. The findings of the Court of Auditors have shown how harmful the current coalition is and that it is high time for this government to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The fundamental assumption of the audit report is that all developments caused by a number of external and internal influence factors can be foreseen in advance in the organisation. Of course, such a thing is not possible. It is particularly difficult to predict the behaviour of a human factor, and the appearance and functioning of a higher power cannot be predicted at all. The effectiveness and effectiveness of the organisation are fundamental considerations for the consideration of the report. Although the report deals with five organisations: the Government, two ministries, namely health and economic development and technology, the Department of Commerce Reserves and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. The Courts by which auditors assess the effectiveness of assessing the need for protective and medical equipment and the conduct of their urgent purchases relate in particular to the legal bases and strategic implementation documents of organisations, the use of pre-known methods to identify equipment needs and organisational arrangements for the execution of procurement procedures. However, to the accuracy of the regulated legal basis and to the most detailed procedure, the strategic implementation documents themselves ensure the achievement of the objectives set, it cannot be established in the audit report. Effectiveness in the organisation and in the public administration is the ratio of the exhibits given by the system to the inputs accepted by the system. However, economic or economics is the relationship between the value of the exhibits provided by the system and the value of the inputs used by the system during the selected time period. We measure success as the result ratio, between the performance results and the system objectives set. Success and effectiveness are essentially different concepts. Effectiveness shall indicate whether the organisation carries out its activities correctly and whether the performance or performance is carried out in order to achieve its objectives. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that the audit report reveals the status of cases at the time in conditions of excessive demand and substantially limited supply and that it should be taken as a well-intentioned basis for correcting and improving future behaviour. As the most important demonstration facilities, we point out the Ministry of Health's call to the hospitals on 3 February 2020 to provide, by 5 February at the latest, data on the number of isolation rooms and their occupations, data on the number of artificial ventilation appliances in intensive therapy units and operating rooms, and data on stocks of FFP2 and FFP3 masks. By the end of the month, only 13 of the 26 addressees had communicated the data, not in the expected two days, but in 25 days, but only half of the addressees. On 25 February last year, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health assessed that wearing masks was not technically justified. On 19 February, 6 days earlier, the National Institute of Public Health notified the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission for participation in the joint public procurement of personal protective equipment and, inter alia, announced the need for 30,000 FFP3 masks. The call issued by the European Commission on 28 February was not successful because the offer for the supply of protective equipment did not arrive and was repeated on 17 March. The National Institute for Public Health was 8 days later, said on 25 March, to check whether the quantities initially requested could be increased and expressed the need for two and a half million FFP3 masks. So in a month, the need has increased by 83 times. At the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, on 27 February, the Government decided that, due to market disturbances in the supply of personal protective equipment, products from state supply reserves would be used for a little less than EUR 164 000 without value added tax, which would be replaced by 31 December 2020 by the end of the year. To illustrate the intensity and dynamics of developments, it is worth stressing that only 14 days later the same government declared the epidemic. With regard to the identification of the needs reported by health organisations 30 days in advance, there were extreme differences. On 22 March last year, a hospital with thousands of employees reported the need for 30,000 FFP masks, and a hospital with 850 employees for 4,000 masks. The hospital with thousands of employees has shown the need for 20,000 protective coats, and the hospital with 850 employees after a thousand protective coats says 20 times less and so on and so on. The audit report also provides data for two comparatively large health homes. During the period from 14 March to 25 March, more than 700 offers were received for the supply of equipment, 757 exactly. They were able to examine 150 of them and none of them were appropriate. The ability of suppliers to comply with contracts was demonstrated by the State auditors by a comparison between the envisaged and actual deliveries. For example, between 20 March and 27 March last year, the supply of three million and 370,000 FFP2 masks was envisaged, with thousands of 350 masks being delivered during this period, 4 hundred per cent of the planned and contractually agreed quantities. Even in all the following weeks the supply of these types of masks has not reached contractually agreed delivery. These types of actual situations substantially rejuvenate public procurement requirements, which should be effective, transparent and in accordance with the principles of economy and equal treatment of equipment providers. During the period from 11 March to 15 April, suppliers, such and different, sent the following number of tenders to the four organisations: the Ministry of Health at least 228, the Department of Commerce Reserves at least 499, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology 437 and the Department of Protection and Rescue at 3 000 75, a total of 4 thousand 239 offers, with no specific number of State auditors able to establish at all. All these tenders were addressed by 11 public servants of the Department of Commerce Reserves. The Court of Auditors also took into account the activities of external participants who were not authorised to enter into any business, but did so nevertheless. The report also shows that the contract conditions have been changed to the detriment of the contracting authority and to the benefit of the supplier for no reasonable reason. Criminal investigations are under way in relation to these acts. We expect the country's repressive apparatus to be able to clear up matters and any crimes committed in accordance with the law. The audit is therefore subject to the functioning of five organisations. At the same time, this audit is a rather direct criticism of their functional structures of organisation. Members of the Desus Group believe that this is also the most important and useful effect of the specific operation of the Court of Auditors. Functional organisation is particularly suitable for a stable environment. In an unstable environment, however, its dysfunction is manifested because it is not flexible to change and decisions are taken on an improvised and voluntary basis. In the context of the acute crisis facing the country in the spring of 2020 and which it will face in the future, a linear hierarchical structure of organisation would be more appropriate. The basic characteristic of the line structure is that they travel instructions or orders from the top down across all stages of the hierarchy. This means that in this system, all but the highest leading person are subordinated to each other. The difference in subordination is that leading persons are subject to as much of the lower management level as possible. If we take the idea that the usefulness of an organisational structure depends on the type of decision and the conditions of action, then the linear structure of organisation should not be considered useless. Circumstances in which a line structure is more effective than others are cases where decisions have to be made quickly because they are subject to exceptional conditions. And that's exactly what the Slovenian country was facing last spring. Disfunctions in the organisation resulting from the unpredictability of the operation of various factors can be resolved by ad hoc approach. It is typical of approach to solving organisational problems when they arise. The organisation using such an organisational problem-solving approach does not carry out an analysis of its existing organisation's rating, it does not plan organisational measures to improve its organisation, but only intervenes when an organisational problem arises. In our case, audited by the Court of Auditors, the decision-makers reacted by decentralising the crisis rather than centralising it. This was a decisive mistake. The question is whether there will be a curve of experience in relation to the established Slovenian practice of ignoring the essential and emphasising peripheral aids to any more rational behaviour in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u22	Chairman, thank you. Nice greetings to all present! The easiest thing to do is to be a general after the battle, but the battle is still going on. To move away from a safe background, without the responsibility to observe the battle, and ultimately to make a biased analysis for their political points. The opposition strategy or the previous coalition is actually excellent. Let us wait, while political opponents face the worst crisis that has plagued us in the history of our country, with which no one has had experience so far, and then let us spoil all the mistakes for our propaganda before the future elections. Yes, such a strategy, despite its immoral perversion, is essentially perfect. When people need this most, under the argument, “we cannot work with too few votes”, we withdraw strategically, but the Slovenian National Party also supported the previous government. Then it is criticized those who, despite a small number of votes, have decided to assume a responsibility that no one has ever faced. In any case, there would be criticism of the opposition's response to the epidemic, even if the current opposition were in the government. Yet, only one government, aware of all the criticism it will face, has taken on this responsibility. And believe that the critic on account would be such an unorganized and incompetent political opposition if it were in the executive branch of power, very large, because at the very beginning or the period before the real beginning of the worst epidemic in the 21st century, so loud, the opposition made a mistake at the first step. The world was preparing for an epidemic, in northern Italy, which is said to be in the immediate vicinity of our country, and it was the worst outbreak of the virus in the world. Today's unorganized team of confused opposition parties was unable or hoped to control the Italians more closely so as not to spread the infection among the Slovenians. When they saw that when faced with such an unstable and unknown threat, they could only get criticism, they decided to take advantage of the country's future mistakes by those who favoured Slovenia and not their own propaganda. Although it was said in Slovenia before the new government took over that on 10 March 2020 some were already infected and in Italy it was announced that they already had the virus. At the confirmation of the new government, our good journalists also announced that people with covido-19 had become ill in Slovenia. You're having a hard time facing an unknown threat like fighting a global pandemic, expecting that you won't make any mistakes, that everything will be perfect, and that there won't be any generals who will make every mistake for their campaign after the battle. And that is why it takes responsibility, courage and political maturity to turn to the unknown, to the difficult task and to deal with all the criticisms aimed at advertising at the detriment of our country. We are critical in the Slovenian National Party, unlike the rest of the opposition to the government, but we do not want to cause even more chaos in the midst of the global crisis, because our country is more important to us than the propaganda objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u24	At the proposal of the opposition parties, we will today discuss recommendations related to the Court's audit report on the effectiveness of procurement of protective and medical equipment to control the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus. The recommendations proposed by the opposition parties were not adopted on the Committee. We didn't even support them in the SDS, because they don't reflect the actual situation, and some of them are even pointless and unnecessary. The deadline imposed by the Court of Auditors on the auditors for the response report was 90 days and has not yet expired. They must also be able to examine the recommendations first. However, it is right to remind ourselves at this point that the revision period was from 1. 1. 2020 pending the issuance of the draft audit report, i.e. the conduct of the previous, 13 governments and the current 14 governments and individual ministries. The previous Government's actions were completely forgotten by the recommenders. Let's remember, the Coronavirus epidemic broke out at the end of 2019 in Wuhan, China, and spread from there very quickly around the world. The first cases of the virus in Europe were found in France and Germany by the end of January 2020. In Italy, where the first real outbreak in Europe was the case, the first case was found in early February and in Slovenia we confirmed the first infected on 4 March 2020. The covida-19 virus epidemic has been responded differently by EU countries. The first measures focused mainly on the establishment of border and health checks on passengers, in particular those coming from Italy and countries where outbreaks occurred. There were bans on events, school closures and kindergartens, restrictions on movement and so on. Due to the rapid spread of the epidemic, EU countries had to engage very quickly in the procurement of protective equipment. In the first place, protective equipment should be provided for hospital and health personnel providing care to patients. Due to the lack of adequate safeguards, a large number of medical personnel were infected in both China and Italy. As stated by the Court of Auditors, the parties to the emergency procurement procedures carried out protective and medical equipment in exceptional circumstances, which were reflected in the lack of information on how quickly and to what extent it is expected to be the rate of disease of residents due to covid-19 in Slovenia, the extremely high demand for protective equipment on the world market and the resulting drastic rise in the prices of this equipment. Let me put forward here a statement by the Director-General of the World Health Organisation on 7 February 2020, which highlighted the serious disturbances in the protection equipment market, where demand is 100 times higher and prices are 20 times higher when they are different. We had an unstable global market for security equipment, including limited exports by certain countries, the need to obtain diplomatic permits to fly military aircraft and increased pressure on doctors to provide protective equipment. Following numerous calls from the Medical Chamber and health institutions, the government of Marjana Šarca is 27. 2. 2020 has only decided to use the protective equipment from the stocks without determining that this equipment is quickly replaced and adequately complemented with the situation of the appropriate quantities. 13. On 27 February, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore adopted a decision to release the available safeguards, which were sufficient only for a few days, from the stocks. However, it ordered the Slovenian authorities to replace the funds issued by 31 December 2020. You heard right, until the end of 2020. On 12 March, the then Prime Minister, in his resignation, Marjan Sarec, announced that they would declare an epidemic and, for a reason, indicated an easier organisation of work. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, the Minister of Health at that time signed a regulation declaring the epidemic where it entered into force on 12 March 2020 at 18:00. Thus, although Slovenia was the immediate neighbour of the main European hotspot in Northern Italy, it declared the epidemic only a day after the World Health Organisation had already declared the pandemic. Italy has already declared the epidemic on 31 January 2020. The 14th government took an oath on 13 March evening and began its work on the first night. The first thing they had to deal with was empty warehouses of protective equipment. The equipment that was in stock at the time of our transfer to our government was not enough to protect health workers for a few days, but others who were directly exposed to the risk of infection. It is worth recalling, however, that on 13 February 2020, the 13th Government announced that Slovenia had dispatched material aid in the form of 1.2 million protection masks to the People’s Republic of China for the control of the coronavirus. Given the amount of protective equipment we had in Slovenia at the time and the uncertainty in the protection equipment market, the Slovenian government should have the primary protection of Slovenian citizens. The government of Marjana Sarca has made a negligible number of supplies of protective equipment, namely only one contract for the supply of masks that was not realized and the purchase of two fans. Nor did it, at the time of preparation for the epidemic, rehabilitate systemic arrangements and legal bases for the preparation of possible purchases of equipment. The Court of Auditors, as the primary problem in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, highlights the applicability of the rules in force at that time, which did not allow an effective assessment of the need for protective equipment to be procured and distributed to users in exceptional circumstances, nor has it been established who is involved in individual procurement procedures The essential evidence of the audit report relates to existing permanent and inadequate legislation that led to ineffective assessment and acquisition of equipment during the epidemic. However, the Court of Auditors’ audit report does not address or identify any corruption risks or damage to public funds. Today's extraordinary session is so just a public performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u26	Dear fellows and fellows, very nice to meet you! The Government's mandate to manage the epidemic and address its consequences is marked by only one word: inefficiency. This government is ineffective in measures to combat the spread of the virus, in communication, in opening and closing activities, in the resolution of the small economy, in the protection of both older and young people, in sport, culture, in the meeting industry, in the organisation of vaccination and could also list. The government, however, was ineffective and deliberately unorganised in the purchase of protective and medical equipment. We're speaking on the basis of data and documents, not on my mind. The Court of Auditors, which has been under direct and indirect attack for months by representatives of the government coalition and their allies, notes in its report that the government has not spent public funds effectively in the procurement of protective and medical equipment. The Court of Auditors also sent 13 contracts to the police. In the report, the auditors wrote, quote: “Procurement procedures have therefore not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of providers of protective and medical equipment, and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts”. End of quote. Let me just remind you of over a thousand unopened offers. They weren't deliberately opened. The audit report confirms everything that we have pointed out in the LMŠ that the government has established a highly opaque ordering system that has acted on principle: too many midwives, a bald child. Not by accident, but by deliberate and deliberate means. Thus, the government dispersed jurisdiction and thereby confused responsibility. All deserving but no one to blame, pre-planned washing of hands. That's what we witnessed. This washing of hands and obstruction of investigations has been taking place since the end of the first wave of the epidemic, or since the house investigations with Minister Restoration and the resignation or non-departure of Minister Hojs. More and more information is coming to the public about this business, the business of the decade, a business for which quality equipment was not a condition, but a telephone call, an electronic message from ministers, secretaries of state, influential people near the government or ruling political parties. Let us walk again through the four key acts performed a year ago by the government of John Janša. As soon as the function began, the government team began to create and spread confusion, panic and fear in society. They put together data on the number of fans and made the impression that the fans in the country weren't enough, which, of course, wasn't true. However, this action enabled the procurement of 220 fans, which were not suitable for the treatment of patients with vision and, of course, their provider was already known in advance. The government prevented direct state purchases of protective and medical equipment from the manufacturers of this equipment and introduced a model of selected domestic intermediaries. It has also established a highly opaque, inefficient and chaotic system of procurement of protective and medical equipment, allowing for customerism and corruption. Once again, all these acts were deliberate and deliberate. What the Court of Auditors finds today, we wrote in LMŠ last May in an interpretation against Minister Počvalska. The evidence for the discharge of the Minister was sufficient at the time, but because it was a minister, who was also the president of one of the coalition parties and because his discharge would have had consequences for the President of New Slovenia and the influential Minister Desus and, of course, the whole government, nothing happened, nothing. By protecting the Minister of Economy, the majority in the National Assembly also protected their ministers and their position, calling for a green light of corruption and clientism and opening the door to the dismantling of the state and the decommissioning of society. Gradually, in the first place, a violation of the Constitution and laws and a reduction of the standards of political culture and the taking of responsibility began. They're not even hiding this today. They only respect the Constitution and the laws as long as they comply with them. The rules are way out of line. They don't take responsibility, they take responsibility for others. The goal is the total dismantling of our country. This government has frozen political culture and responsibility and wiped out integrity. All of this is reflected in society. How can people be expected to trust the authorities, comply with the rules and respect the institutions if the authorities show by their actions and actions that the government and its majority in the National Assembly simply do not have to be held accountable for violations or deviations from constitutional principles, laws, democratic standards and moral values? The government has slowly established a society of clientelism and corruption, conspiracy, chaos, exclusion, ignorance, lies, irrationality, hate speech and hatred in general, violence, concealment. And that's just because most people in this house don't want to hear or see what's going on outside their safe and privileged bubble. If we were to only try to read the Court of Auditors' audit report, we would find that the government was ineffective in procurement procedures and in breach of legislation. However, 13 government transactions were sent to the police on suspicion of a crime. But that's not enough for most people in the National Assembly and the government. Nor is it that the Constitutional Court has held back or annulled several articles of the laws and decrees of this Government. And there's a lot of government biases that don't have anything to look for in a democratic society. Too many to be missed and silenced in the LMŠ. Unfortunately, we have come to the point where the majority in Parliament and the government are ready to accept the explanation that the problems of the government are the fault of the deep state, the opposition, the European Parliament and ultimately the people. More. The solution to their problems is seen in attacks against the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court, the media and the prosecution, in the acquisition of the police, the National Investigation Office, the Financial Administration, that I do not lose words about the State Council, which acts as a member of the government coalition. In the LMŠ we have constantly warned and proposed solutions which the government coalition did not want to hear because we did not want to sign an agreement with it and thus bow to everything that the government of Janez Janša, Matei Tonin and Zdravko Počvalska presents and works. The State is a prisoner of some Members and Members who do not want to hear warnings, arguments and see the whole picture in which they keep the government of Janez Janša. In this way, they protect their position at all costs. Also for the cost of life, for the pressure of people, for the deception, for the economic damage and for the wrong, late or harmful decisions. Because of your blindfolding, colleagues and colleagues, you are and will be responsible for the dismantling of the country, reckless indebtedness, and above all for the high coronation that our society, in particular people, has already and will pay for. Unfortunately, our future, children and young people are paying for the greatest coronation. Here, too, the Minister of Education and the Government hears all the warnings and suggestions and does not act. In the LMŠ, we will continue to strive for this harmful government to fall, to go to elections and to put human beings, the environment, knowledge and development at the forefront and the rule of law. To return to normality and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u28	Thank you, President. Dear fellows! The proposal for a recommendation submitted by the parties to the democratic opposition was made as a constructive attempt to objectively assess the effectiveness of the procurement of medical and protective equipment purchased by the government of Janez Janša in the wake of the outbreak of the covida pandemic-19. The recommendation contained six points. Firstly, on the basis of a revision of the Court of Auditors’ action. To prepare amendments and to supplement the rules. That the circumstances of the epidemic do not use to establish non-transparent procurement systems that lead to corruption risks. To cooperate with the competent authorities in the exercise of control and to take on political responsibility and, finally, to offer an apology for what went wrong in these difficult circumstances. And a lot of things went wrong, respectable colleagues and colleagues. The rulings on the committee have strongly rejected all the proposals. The governors of SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and, of course, Desus' extended hands on the committee rejected our proposals smoothly. They put themselves in the position that in purchasing medical and protective equipment everything and everything was in perfect order. The only aggravating circumstance would be empty warehouses for which the past government is adequately blamed. It insists that their establishment of parallel decision-making systems, such as interdepartmental advisory groups and government headquarters, does not further complicate transparency. More. After all the debates that have been held, it seems to me that they also really believe that the Minister should not only, but even when the situation is serious enough, violate the rules in force, hit the table, select suppliers, demand advances and decide on the annexes. Your Honor! When media disclosures broke out almost a year ago about the way the government buys protective equipment, we proposed and insisted that the state is trying to obtain equipment itself from manufacturers and without intermediaries, as most countries have done. This would ensure transparency and traceability of business. What is even more important, the country itself would have risks and decisions in its own hands. Thus, the risk, and thus the profit, has passed on to the private sector. If the individuals were in a good enough relationship with the rulers, the matter was facilitated by telephone calls, overpayments, a review of the lack of references, or a purchase of inadequate goods. When the first transparency requirements arose, the government tried to suppress criticism by sending an imprecise mountain of documents to the National Assembly and even trying to direct Parliament to what recommendations to adopt, but was not prepared to accept any responsibility or commitment on its own. Otherwise, the rulings acted when the Court of Auditors finally began its work. At that time, there were numerous reports of inaccessibility and inadequacy or even concealment of documents that could confirm or dispel suspicions of irregularities. Government officials insist all the time that they have not made the slightest mistake in the procurement of equipment, so that any follow-up to the well-intentioned recommendations is unnecessary. To expect any regrets or even an apology from such a government would be the same as a miracle. The Court of Auditors has done its work in spite of all the pressure and attempts to mutilate properly, as always. That is why it also applies to one of the few institutions that citizens still trust. It's not sacred to the rulers either. After the criticism they had received, they turned to assault, personal discrediting and defamation of the reputation of not only the President of the Court, but also the institutions themselves. They are also speaking today and will talk in particular about the sins of the proponents, of course they are without blemish. Many facts and reasons in this story are not yet known to us, but they are not within our jurisdiction. They will be clarified by law enforcement authorities which will examine criminal liability in at least 13 exposed cases of medical and protective equipment acquisition. Until then, the only conclusion that the ruling cannot prevent is a clear finding by the Court of Auditors, I repeat, a clear finding by the Court of Auditors that the Government has acted ineffectively in the procurement of protective equipment, irrespective of exceptional circumstances and the prevailing situation. The question raised in this regard is whether the government has created such an opaque system on purpose or out of negligence. In any event, there has been a variety of damage in overpaid and unsupplied or inadequate equipment and in public finances. The clarification of irregularities, which should restore confidence in the State's ability to investigate possible sins of the ruling and learn from mistakes, and the attitude of the rulings towards well-intentioned criticism and constructive recommendations further undermines the mutual trust that we so desperately need in these times. The confidence of citizens and citizens in politics is extremely low today due to such behaviours. In our opinion, respectable colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, to a large extent, it is also justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The word is Edward Paulic, get ready for the mags. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u30	President, thank you for your word. At the outset, I will quote the statement made by Minister Restovalsk following the publication of the Court of Auditors' report. He said: “It is important to me that the report does not contain any talk on corruption as the opposition has predicted, but rather a systematic analysis in which MGRT plays a smaller role.” However, unlike the minister, it is important for me that the Court of Auditors in the report record a verbal link of inefficiency 195 times, treating the 82 times unevenly and intransparency 54 times. Three more things need to be explained in this regard. The Court of Auditors’ fundamental competence is to review and monitor the transparency of the use of public funds and is therefore not within the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors to determine whether any of these acts have been corrupt or not. This falls within the competence of the Commission to prevent corruption and other bodies. At the same time, we need to know that untransparent action is sufficient to damage public funds and that it treats tenderers in an unequal way, so there is not necessarily a corrupt act. However, it is undeniable that the Court of Auditors has indicated to the investigating authorities the suspicion of crimes in connection with the 13 contracts concluded. This will be judged by the investigating and, perhaps, by the judicial authorities. The Court of Auditors shall clearly record this, quote: “Procurement procedures have not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers, and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts.” And at least what this tells us is that there has been a lot of bad acquisitions and that there is at least a large indication that public funds have been damaged. Let me remind you, immediately after the performance, the current government terminated its established procurement procedures and transferred its competence to the Department of Commerce Reserves, which itself warned that it was not professionally or humanely qualified for these actions. The Court of Auditors writes, quote, “When the Government centralised public procurement, there were no specified professional grounds on which to decide which type of protective equipment would be procured and how and who was responsible for such procurement”. Later, an interdepartmental working group was established to assist the institution, and later another working group was established at the Ministry of Economy. In my view, you have actually created conditions when the procurement agency was formally responsible on paper, and on the other hand there were such and different pressures from other stakeholders. We probably all remember the famous call of Minister Restoration to the Department of Trade Reserves. The Court of Auditors shall record, quote, "the dispersion of tasks and the inadequacy of competences to carry out individual stages of procurement procedures have contributed to the non-transparent treatment of tenders". I will continue to list only a few facts that require reflection and, in my opinion, political responsibility. Nearly half of the 64 suppliers brought equipment that did not have the appropriate certificates to Slovenia. Half of the contracts concluded on the basis of tenders were flawed and did not include essential elements of the contract. 22 contracts were concluded without the security verification of tenderers, although this was required by the Interdepartmental Working Group's protocol. Of the 148 fans purchased in the spring, according to the first wave of the epidemic, at the start of the second wave 110 did not fit for the treatment of patients with eyesight. It is said that 75% of the fans purchased at the start of the second wave were not suitable for the treatment of patients with vision. The Court of Auditors shall clearly establish and record in the report that part of the tenders have not been considered at all. This clearly indicates selectivity and arbitrariness in the selection of suppliers. But at least I'm the one that gets the most out of my eyes in the report, but the influence of people without powers. And I'm going to quote a few cases from the Court of Auditors' report. The bidder is 14. He sent an offer to the 3rd Bureau for cover masks. Two days later, it's 16. 3. the institution has received an e-mail from a natural person on this offer, we are talking about the president of one of the non-parliamentary parties who writes, and I will quote part of this electronic message: “In accordance with the instructions of PV JJ, I am sending you contact to immediately available more than 2 million protection masks in Turkey.” This same natural person, said the president of the non-parliamentary party, is a day later, is said to be 17. 3. One of the employees of the office was threatened with losing his job and the next day, is 18. 3. the institution has signed a contract with this provider worth half a million euros. As regards the acquisition of fans, the Court of Auditors shall record 4 contracts for the supply of fans concluded on the basis of the intervention of an MGRT staff member and the extract from this electronic message: “Please confirm and execute the orders given below. We order the respirators, prices and specifications listed below, as a matter of urgency.” The two contracts were concluded on the basis of the intervention of an MGRT staff member stating that the Minister for Economic Development and Technology confirmed the offer and that the institution should proceed as soon as possible with the transaction with that tenderer. One contract was concluded on the basis of the tender submitted and the request of the MORS staff member for the execution of the contract. One contract was concluded on the basis of express confirmation of the tender obtained by the project group leader who did not have the power to activate it. What I read to you are just some cases of a communication from the Court of Auditors. And if, to conclude, I return to the beginning of my debate and to the statement made by Minister Pozvalska, who said it was important for him that there was no talk in the report on corruption as announced by the opposition, it was a systemic analysis in which MGRT played a smaller role. What does the Court of Auditors consider as opposed to the minister on the role of MGRT? I quote: “We appreciate that the institution has been in a position to deal with tenders in a position where MGRT has also been involved in the procedure for the procurement of equipment as the manager of the procurement procedure.” End of quote. According to the Court of Auditors’ assessment, the Government placed the Office in a position where it did not decide all procedures independently, even though it was a formal purchaser. The formal culprit was the institution, the facts or influences came from elsewhere. With regard to the responsibility of the institution, the Court of Auditors notes, quote: “No matter what formal responsibility is stated, and the institution, when interfering with the Government and the MGRT in the proceedings, could not fully determine the manner or protocol for the treatment of tenders, nor could the conditions for when the supply and equipment should be considered appropriate.” And that's where I'm going to put the dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič will discuss it with Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Finally, we have on the table a report by the Court of Auditors covering a total of 251 pages of the long report. Why am I starting my debate the way I started, with the word finally? For this reason, in particular, because we have been followed by turbulent months of debates, discoveries, numerous controversy, through committees, committees, interpretations, as well as the media, and also, you will not believe, people, that we must do everything to find out what was going on with the purchases of protective equipment and medical equipment. Were all the actions taken by the competent authorities in accordance with positive legislation? Has there been any deviations? Indeed, the Court of Auditors' report shows that the disclosures of the media and of us Members have been fully justified. Five revisions. 5 auditors: Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economic Development, Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Ministry of Defence, Department of Trade Reserves. All of these were ineffective in public procurement of necessary protective and medical equipment. But yes, that word is ineffective, it's very popular. When we listened to ourselves in those turbulent times, how did the authorities save lives — which of them saved lives? Life was saved by doctors in hospitals, none of those I listed. But yes, today we face a cruel truth. I'm sad that the authorities don't admit they made mistakes. Although making mistakes is human, especially in these extremely difficult times. It is absolutely not human to exploit the situation of using public funds at the expense of epidemics and human oppression. But here there is no absolution and competent institution, says the National Investigation Office and everyone else must do their part. If we had listened at the beginning of the mandate to the fact that the warehouses of the Department of Stocks were empty, it would be expected that the Minister for Economic Development would finally admit that he had not done his job knowingly. He had the first clue that there was a pandemic in the world, that sufficient protective equipment must be provided immediately. But no, Minister Restoration was more concerned with himself at the time, with his client than with doing the work for which he was paid. What is most ironic is that the competent authorities have repeatedly claimed that they have acted in accordance with the law and that we are prejudiced when stating suspicions. And this continued also last week or 14 days ago on the Committee on the Economy, when the Secretary of State stated that the consideration of this report was premature, that they had done nothing wrong, and that the warehouses were empty again. But the Secretary of State forgets that Minister Restoration has been – since when? The only one in this Court of Auditors report is the one who hasn't changed. I can really ask myself here. That is why it would have been better for the Committee on the Economy to remain silent, to take note of the Court of Auditors' findings, and to ensure that such scarves would never have happened again. At least that's what I'd do. Today, though, he said just what he said or read only in the introduction. But there is no criticism of the Secretary of State here. This is where the criticism goes mainly to the Minister of Economy. Today, I would expect him to sit between us and defend this report or defend himself in the right way. It's not like he's actually sending a secretary of state who probably didn't have much to do with all this business. From everything in the report and so far, starting with the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, which has shown that the dimension of all alleged irregularities and exploitation is even greater and deeper than we at first thought, as evidenced by the proposed proposals for the suspicion of criminal service in 13 contracts. That's what they prove. Of course, we will see what the outcome will be. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Economy, as well as the project groups that have somehow established themselves and the external stakeholders who have participated in the inter-departmental working groups and also outside it, are responsible for the inefficiencies in the implementation of procurement procedures in the conclusion of contracts for the supply of protective and medical equipment. The Department of Commerce has found that it has acted ineffectively. He received and distributed equipment which had not been shown to comply with the applicable rules and standards. In the case of a contract for the supply of 220 fans, it did not arrange for the performance of contractually specified acquisition controls of the entire delivered goods. Thus, these hospitals took over a total of 40 fans without the quality and quantity review of the goods confirmed by the authorised control house of the department of supply reserves. By suspending the relevant control procedures, it contributed to the distribution and use of goods which did not provide users with an adequate level of health and safety protection. You're really wondering where all this is going. It did not ensure regular monitoring of the implementation of the contracts and did not act on an up-to-date basis in cases of infringements, thereby contributing to the unequal treatment of equipment suppliers. We have also warned about this and this is also shown in the report. While the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the National Institute for Public Health, effectively and comprehensively monitored the development of covida-19 dissemination, however, the information and warnings received were not sufficiently responsive, as it did not approach the identification of stocks and systematic needs assessment. Since there was so much talk about the availability of fans, the Ministry of Health first joined the number of fans available. 2. 2020, but the first integrated list was only produced by 31. 3. 2020, this is said to be less than two months. In the meantime, they purchased two fans 18 days earlier and concluded 4 contracts for the supply of 326 fans 13 days earlier. Why? In the hospital, 19 were admitted to identify the supplies of protective equipment. 3. 2020, for healthcare homes 2. 4. 2020 and 15. 4. 2020 for certain welfare institutions, but the data collected were insufficient. It was an incomplete record of the state of stocks of protective equipment, and users of healthcare equipment did not have a reliable basis for realising the need for additional purchases of protective equipment. Much of this is recorded in the report itself, so according to the Court of Auditors all these auditors: the Government, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Trade Reserves, of course everyone within their competences, were not effectively organised in the procurement and procurement of the necessary protective and medical equipment. Public procurement procedures have not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency, equal treatment of providers of protective and medical equipment and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with the rules. Of course, the effect of such behaviour on the abandonment of the accurate identification of equipment stocks and on the proper evaluation of post-supply offers also reflected the fact that some users were given inadequate protective equipment or fans that were not suitable for the immediate treatment of visually impaired patients at the time of distribution to hospitals. I still have to touch this and I still can't believe my eyes have been supplied with so-called 80-cent rubber masks. Where are these masks today? These masks are lying in storage today. Why? How much money have we spent on this? A lot of money. If not otherwise, at least the government representatives could wear them and they could use them. I don't know why they don't. Why not, I'll tell you. Because you can't handle them. They can't be worn because they cut behind their ears. We discussed this a lot on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision and on the Health Committee. But what about those masks, the rubbers in the warehouses where they're lying? How much money did we pay? These are questions, and here we should really ask ourselves where the taxpayer's money went. And 80 cents for a piece of mask with a rubber! Well, don't be silly. And it would certainly be time for us to learn once that even in exceptional and extraordinary circumstances we cannot and should not repeal the rules that apply to all. It would also be time for us to learn after 30 years that the mentality of amateur “sharp” business in our country has no place. Key findings suggest that those responsible, instead of shaving fools from our people, ridicule all of our questions, where and what our money was for hundreds of millions of years, take responsibility and thus restore dignity, at least that little dignity that they have taken away and trampled on our people with their often abject and offensive appearances. Finally, take responsibility! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Mrs Muršič has previously pointed out very well the essential problem of this government, as well as the operationality of this government. And that is that they find themselves very poorly in crisis situations, unfortunately, what I will say is, at the time we have experienced it or are still experiencing it, not only is it not welcome, but it is unacceptable. In such crisis situations, it also shows and shows who is able to lead and even who is capable, I will say, lead in the right direction. Not just to lead somewhere, but to lead somewhere. Here the government has carried out the real, I will say, some type of Monty Python show with this transfer of responsibility from one to the other, and from the Ministry of Economy to the Government to the Ministry of Economy, and then to the Department of Trade Reserves, and then to the project group, and also to the Interdepartmental Working Group. Situations such as this co-vid situation, or the situation of coronary disease, actually require quick, corrosive, clean and, above all, successful and effective solutions. This is also, in essence, the Court of Auditors’ audit report. To this inefficiency. There was no real efficiency at all. The whole of Slovenia struggled with this or that, instead of everyone dealing with the essence of preventing and eliminating this virus from this country as soon as possible. In fact, this dispersion served exactly what you all had previously pointed out in your views, that it is possible, when there is a dispersion of certain responsibilities, to say, some gray foxes or even some black corners. Then you can just let a lot of things happen, let things happen, and I'm not going to say right now, I don't want to be a populist, I don't want to be a wrong decision or maybe even a wrong decision. The government, as well as the Prime Minister, will all have to admit it and publicly admit it once before us all, because it would be the most Christian of them to admit that he made a mistake and made a mistake and apologized. And if there's anything more Christian, it's to repent of your sin, that's it. And I would also say that I will not paraphrase matters now, but I would also like everyone in this government to admit that once you admit that all the decisions were wrong or that most of the decisions were wrong or that they were not in the right place at the right time or that the decisions were completely wrong and, above all, the audit report in essence is ineffective. I'm going to be very brief because I just flew in from another committee because we have another committee going on down there, or commission. I would like to warn you, everyone who is a Christian is wrong and it is even more Christian to admit mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by Iva Dimic and will be discussed by Dusan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the views of the groups of Members today, I can say that I may have gotten the feeling that not all of them went through the entire Court of Auditors report – indeed, 234 pages does – because the simple word, which is also at the beginning of the reference itself and is addressed to “ineffective” and I can say that when I also read the recommendations and also the report and the explanation itself, I did not see exactly this word “ineffective” because the matter concerned in particular the determination of the situation concerning 2016 and 2018, in particular the state plan for communicable diseases in 2016 and the management of the risk of accidents in 2018. I can say that if you examine this matter and read it, you can see that it is simply the truth that no one could have predicted in 2016 and not in 2018 something that was not known and did not predict what would happen. Of course, it was a new virus, an unknown virus, and some protocols that predicted what would happen when such a virus occurred, could not be predicted. Of course, in July 2020, this report by the Court of Auditors, the cases have been rectified, the protocols have been amended, too, but I hope to say that the question is whether these protocols will still be correct in five years' time, because we do not know what will happen in five years' time, because we cannot predict what will happen. However, in view of the current situation, I hope, according to the report, that we know and can predict one part of this time, this crown, also in terms of the international dimension, because we know that this epidemic has an international dimension, and of the situation and the measures also in different countries. And I hope that we all agree here and realize that every mutation of this virus for all of us, for all of humanity, is a new challenge for all of the societies of this world. A new challenge that we cannot fully define in all protocols, as I said, in the protocols of the State plan for communicable diseases and risk management as well. I focused mainly on the 25 pages, all the way to the recommendations, or the beginning of the description of the situation in which it happened, and indeed here is colleague Pavlič – look, with all due respect, I do not want to hit anyone, but I think that the vats must be the same for all of them – he described how it happened. I got it as soon as my colleague was doing it, also by e-mailing how LMŠ was lobbying for some business at the Oncology Institute. And I'm embarrassed to say it again, but I mean, the vats are all the same. I don't want too much to say, keep going, so I'm done here. What I think is very important about all this data, which is extremely large, is what is also on page 39. The Court of Auditors notes that, on the basis of the request of ZVNDN and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Resolution, in 2016, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the NIJZ, it carried out an assessment of the threat to the occurrence of communicable diseases in 2016. By doing so, if, according to our assessment, it makes sense to determine exactly who and how to use the hazard assessment produced in the management of communicable diseases, the State would ensure that, in the event of an outbreak of communicable disease, all stakeholders would have a clear understanding of how to deal with emergency situations such as an infectious disease epidemic. Thus, the Court of Auditors pointed out that it was not possible to foresee the exceptional circumstances in which the current government was located. And, of course, one day when it came, and the other day, when she took matters into her own hands, practically the protocols couldn't hold. I quote on page 40: "We have found that the state assessment of the risk management capacity for disasters 2018 does not include an assessment of the risk management capacity for an epidemic of communicable diseases, such as covid-19 and similar, but includes an assessment of the case of an influenza epidemic." It is said that all plans made in 2016 and 2018, the Court of Auditors writes here that they have been made and contain an assessment of the influenza epidemic. We, however, think that we are all still aware that this is not the flu, even though it was said at the beginning of March 2020, that it is a little more serious flu, but that it is a virus that the whole world did not know well enough and we still do not know it because it mutates so quickly. Of course, certain criteria are known for the consequences and the complications. On page 42 of the National Plan for Protection and Rescue of Infectious Diseases, I quote: «The State Plan for Infectious Diseases 2016, prepared by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the NIJZ and other ministries and government services, was in force until 23. Seven. 2020, when the government adopted a new national plan for communicable diseases that replaced the previous one. We have found that both national plans are prepared for several types of communicable diseases, with none of the plans focusing on measures specific to individual types of communicable diseases." This says exactly what it is that is difficult to predict what will happen in the future with the virus's mutation. We also have recommendations that you may not have mentioned or that I have not heard in my views so far. The recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are somehow divided into four units. There are recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then recommendations to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves. Practically on three pages, there are recommendations and I really expected to discuss these recommendations. One important recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to examine how the new national programme will establish baselines for the control of communicable diseases in humans, and to plan, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Morse and the Ministry of Health, whether the need for prosperity is to be examined, the equipment that stakeholders in emergency situations urgently and immediately need is planned in a specific document and not in a five-year programme of supplies, and also to examine which stakeholder should be in charge of keeping such records in accordance with the results of the analysis, should it decide that this is necessary. Other stakeholders and recommendations are listed. It seems to me that every time we hear about the recommendations, everyone takes them with a reasonable measure of awareness that the recommendations have been made in order to remedy possible errors in the next occurrence of any epidemic. The Ministry of Health is encouraged to examine whether it would make sense for individual relevant users of equipment within the health sector to require the provision of strategic security and medical equipment supplies and to keep records and communicate data on the strategic stocks of such equipment, and should, in accordance with the results of the analysis, require approaches to action, if necessary. It is said that they have made recommendations that it is necessary to look at what would be useful or how it would be more prudent to provide strategic supplies of protective equipment. They also recommend that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology determine the conditions or criteria on the basis of which the Minister responsible for Supply decides to give consent to the selection of producers or producers and traders. It's called a recommendation. And they stayed, and I've just listed them. I believe that these recommendations will continue to be discussed today, which I believe is also the point of the Court of Auditors. The purpose of the Court of Auditors’ report is precisely to recommend what the Government recommends to do or to address possible problems in a particular area where bottlenecks have been in this case. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Commodities Reserves was hit during the epidemic: first, infections; second, too few people. And perhaps they have not yet had experience, as have many of us, how to work and act in crisis situations. It is very unlikely between us or in Slovenia that people who are crisis managers who are experienced, experienced, trained, have knowledge, approaches and know how to deal with the crisis situations we have encountered. For this reason, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia is, for example, the first recommendation we have in this report to adopt internal acts setting out in more detail the procurement procedures for the implementation of emergency procurement procedures for basic supplies. It is said that they must establish a system whereby the ordered goods will be provided solely on the basis of taking into account the information on existing stocks of equipment in national reserves and users, and on the basis of the assessment of the needs for goods, to establish a system whereby the procurement of goods will be ensured solely on the basis of the previously confirmed necessary characteristics of the goods, to ensure that the procedure is in place which will determine precisely who, and in what way, in the event of the procurement in exceptional circumstances, should continuously verify the fulfilment of the cumulative conditions for the use of the procurement procedure and, of course, the remaining recommendations. It is said that the Court of Auditors has also learned in this recommendation that the supply reserves were the very narrow throat that actually caused — of course, if there is a narrow throat — that there is no flow, or that they have started, unfortunately, in some way to fall the dominoes. In this area we can also say – and you will probably disagree with me – thank all those who have been prepared and who have worked to ensure in a certain, short period of time a sufficient number of necessary protective equipment for the homes of older citizens as well as for the hospitals, as for all the other people, that we can get masks. About what I've heard today, especially the Pavšič proposalr, I must say that you've been spinning around in the same circle all the time, that you've remained one year ago and you've still been warming up certain things since then. I really expected an intensive summary of the Court of Auditors' report, but there was not much to be said about it in any position or presentation. Except, once again, my colleague was quoting, I think on page 18, if I'm not mistaken, after what I've been looking for. But look, I just got this copy. [[shows the object]] from the diary, how they hired a consultant as recommended. So, the same vats for everyone, we didn't put anyone on the cross at the time. And yes, to be wrong, they say, is human. I have heard, I will say from my left, calls, Christians must regret – yes, indeed – and also take a firm decision, and something else. However, if everyone had any respect for each other, our language or rhetoric would be different. However, I wish that we respect each other and also respect each other when things come as this recommendation does today. These are my wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, and after him will discuss the mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I will start with a partial insert from this report, as follows: “The Court of Auditors has made a number of recommendations to the Government, the Ministry of Health, MGRT and the Institute to improve the basis on which, in the event of exceptional circumstances, an effective system for the identification of stocks of goods is to be established, so is equipment, the assessment of the needs for goods, equipment and the procedure for initiating and carrying out purchases of goods to be distributed to users without delay.” I think that these findings of the Court of Auditors are simply not challenged in anything, it is the right conclusion, but it is necessary to face some very cruel reality. This finding by the Court of Auditors merely identifies what has been made known to the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia from 2017 to March 2020 – that the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared for the emergency situation at the time of the outbreak. Unfortunately, this is simply not exposed at all in the debates, but it is an inevitable fact. If I go to the audit report alone, the effectiveness of purchasing protective equipment and so on, because of course it is a political debate. The Court of Auditors shall, on its introductory part, record the following: “Department of the Court of Auditors”. The Court of Auditors shall inform the public in a timely and objective manner of the important disclosures of the operations of the public authorities and other users of public funds. This is absolutely true, and I am very much in favour of it myself. However, there is no element in the written mission to be able to speak, if I speak for myself, of the so-called political agenda that occurred before the specific publication of this report. The mission of the Court of Auditors should not be a tool for political accounting, especially if the procedure itself in this particular case is not yet completed. I'm sure I'll use a few more words to do this. Therefore, the representatives of the legislative branch of the authorities are even more committed to the so-called objectivity referred to by the Court of Auditors. In this case, can we even talk about the so-called true objectivity of this court if the procedure, as I have already mentioned, has not been completed yet? For we are still at an open time about the response report, and I can say that it is possible that within this open 90-day period certain conclusions, which I do not oppose, are legitimate, change. Interestingly, on this occasion I am quoting the press record, and I will quote two. Journalists or journalists record the following: “We do not remember that any of the Presidents of the Court would comment publicly on a confidential report in the function of political needs.” Others: “We do not even remember that at the stage of the creation of the audit report, which Court President spoke publicly about contracts the circumstances of which could be perceived as suspicious criminal services. However, the court has not brought criminal charges against the court.” I am allowing myself to conclude from this that the Court of Auditors, since its creation a good quarter of a century ago, has built up its reputation, but this reputation has been severely abused by the President of the Court of Auditors in the political interest of the current KUL opposition. If I may be a little bit more specific, as far as the audit report itself is concerned. I will not go into these hundreds or hundreds of pages of concrete findings. I am more interested in the so-called final part of the audit report, Chapter 5. As I mentioned before, 90 days from receipt. If I take the date of 17 March 2021 when this audit report is due, that period shall not expire until 17 June 2021. As I point out, once again, I am talking about the submission of a response report by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Department of Freight Reserves. The fact is that, with regard to the written findings relating to the effectiveness of the acquisition of protective and medical equipment in controlling the spread of covid virus, the words “emergency conditions” and “for several years before the failure of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare for epidemics” are simply deliberately or unconsciously omitted. Therefore, in this case, I am asked why the urgency and alarming introduction of an inefficient system of purchasing protective and medical equipment, as we say, during the epidemic. I understand, however, that this is actually a political account of the signatories of today's meeting with the current government. It's perfectly legitimate. However, I am of the view that the signatories of today's meeting are of little concern to the objective and realistic situation in which the Republic of Slovenia was in 2020, and I am talking about the beginning of the year as regards the covid. As already mentioned several times, the circumstances of the emergency, here I will stress the extraordinary situation not only in the Republic of Slovenia, especially on the world market, regarding the demand, supply and supply of protective equipment, this is also related to the protection of people living in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the inevitable and indisputable fact is that at the beginning of 2020, the then President of the Government left behind the complete unwillingness of the Republic of Slovenia to covid-19 and simply left it to others. This is the other side when we are already talking about political debates, why this is so and otherwise. As regards the conclusion of the Court of Auditors’ report of 17. 3. 2021. Chapter 6 makes recommendations. What do they contain? In the six points, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is recommended only and only to examine the activities and measures in order that the Republic of Slovenia will be prepared for the emergency situation at the time of the so-called epidemics, as I mentioned in the introduction. However, the Court of Auditors simply did not speak about any other measures proposed against persons who were carrying on activities, which is so much talk in these political debates. Therefore, I cannot go beyond the conclusion that the Minister of Economy is clearly the main hostage of the perceptions of inefficient procurement. Clearly, a parliamentary investigative committee has also been set up to this end. However, the Court of Auditors’ written recommendation, which is also addressed to the Ministry of the Economy, only one point is intended for this purpose. Which means that the honourable proponents, who in these political debates wanted to degrade Minister Restovalsk, are very much seduced by your political agenda, precisely because of the Court's recommendation. Surely, however, you are being sent mainly to persons, this is said by the Ministry of Health and the Department of Commerce Reserves. Finally, only what has been mentioned many times in the debate – that at least in the emergency situations that occurred at the time, we are talking about the beginning of 2020, saving lives exclusively under the authority of doctors. Undisputed. However, he does not want to point out that these same doctors have warned that they do not even have protective equipment for their health care professionals. And how would they, or how could they save the lives of others if they did not have the means of protection themselves? There is also a need to have a degree of understanding for this objectivity in the political debate. However, I agree that some things may be even more optimal, but given the situation that has occurred in the Republic of Slovenia, this is a reflection of this. Therefore, it is not a fault and is not an injustice and it is not right to settle down on just one person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek, and she'll be given the word Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all, to as many of us as we have here today! Today we are talking about the purchase of equipment, medical equipment and protective equipment or the findings of the Court of Auditors. The fact is that in this document, this report states that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health and, of course, the Department of Procurement Reserves were not effective. This is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. What does it mean that they were not effective? I believe that this equipment could be bought cheaper, more efficient, with less public money. What was illegal in this business is identified by the police and the prosecution, and I hope that this thing will lead to the point where we can figure it out. I agree that there have been exceptional circumstances and that Slovenia has not been prepared for this emergency. But it must be said that the whole world was not prepared for an emergency. By saying to the previous government what we are, what we are, what we should do would be better – I am sure that there would be absolutely no difference in the supply of protective equipment or medical equipment if that same government were to lead the country at that time, because the fact that the outbreak of this virus was not prepared by the whole world. But I've got a few questions to ask me. Every day we watch traffic lights on TV, and as I understand it, 200 intense beds are some magical frontier that should not be exceeded if we want to ensure health for everyone. Why, why the hell did we go to get 400 and more fans? Why if we have a limit of 200? Then let's say we have a limit of 400 and we can figure out that 400 people will be provided. Because now on the investigators who have already been mentioned, we hear how many hospitals have been supplying these fans themselves – when I say 400 or more, only what has been going through the Department of Supplies, it is said, hospitals are all alone – I am interested and would be very happy to have an answer to how many of these so-called fans we have in our country right now. I really need someone to tell me why we bought 400, intensive beds, where these fans are supposed to be needed, but 200 are available. I'm not going to lose words about masks because there was so much to be said about it. But, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, the fact is, you've caused an epidemic. That's a fact. The mistakes that have been made will, unfortunately, never be rectified again. The most, practically the most, among the first three in the world after the death of a covidus. We had the longest closed schools. What have we done to our child? Do you ever ask? The curfew, which has now been abolished, is determined after 174 or 173 days that it was not at all a proposal of a profession, that you wished it was possible to put a little more pressure on people. I'm not talking about research that's supposed to prove that there's no need for outdoor masks at all. And we're masks up today, tomorrow, and tomorrow I'm up again, and so on. It's what makes people insecure, it kind of makes people want to do what they need to do, and we're always defending them and asking them to respect them, but they don't. You've taken measures without a basis in the profession. Some of these were, and the purchase of equipment is unfortunately only the first in a series. On Friday, we will have a health committee to discuss procurement or, rather, non-vaccination. Here too, it will be necessary to give an answer as to who decided why he decided what the arguments were. In short, these are things people are interested in. But you know what's the saddest thing about me watching this? That whenever Slovenia leads or is the largest government party to the SDS, it leaves behind a burning ground. Anytime. I'm going to let go of the first time you didn't run cleanly and you produced the arms affair, but in the second government there was Patria and a bank hole was dug. It took us a few years to get Slovenia back to the green branch. How Patria ended up, the whole of Slovenia knows well. In another government, which was fortunately short-lived, you have embarked on an ideological decline in rights across the board. For the first time and fortunately for the last time in history, you have reduced your pensions by 25 thousand percent, in my opinion, because they are not the colors you would like. And in the end, instead of dealing with the state's rehabilitation, you started calling our country a threesome. This third term, however, I think it will be legendary after the mistakes that have been made. I'd much rather sit here today and talk about how we successfully overcame the epidemic, but we didn't. We have not defeated another wave successfully, we have indeed been the worst in many categories, and I fear, according to today's numbers, that the third wave in which we are will not be defeated as successfully as we may have believed yesterday. Why? Because it was a professional proposal to have the country completely but completely shut down for 10 days, and we made a mix where, I think, according to the data available to us, 6 or 8% of the people were working from home, everything else was working in jobs, we closed, I don't know, 20% of the stores, all the others were open. Then how do people know it's serious? How do they know that things really need to be taken into account? The greatest achievement of this mandate, however, is your public debt, a historically high public debt. This, however, to a colleague who says we must have the same vats for everyone: I very much agree, and it is logical that the country intervenes and helps, absolutely, but in 2013 we were in your words just before the collapse, and the public debt to Slovenia amounted to just over EUR 12 000, today this public debt is EUR 18,000, more than EUR 18,000. The police will do their job, but if you look a little bit in Europe, I'll say your sister's party in Germany was able to make order with those who were legally employed in protective equipment. More specifically, the legal way. And they were able to say that this was wrong, they could say that the epidemic and the fight against the virus should not be the reason and place for the war profit of anyone in politics. Those who have read this report from the Court of Auditors can find huge amounts of things in there. If this government were really dealing with the epidemic, but not with the destruction of the STA, the media, fruit yogurts and the like, we could get the epidemic into our country, just like in other countries. To tell you the truth, I'm sorry, I'm sorry that you failed in this fight with the epidemic. I'm sure because you people don't trust you anymore, you won't be able to win this fight with the virus. I'm sorry we're gonna be sitting here again on Friday talking about another catastrophic thing, getting or not getting vaccines. Unfortunately, in this epidemic, bad things are written or written down, unfortunately again, by themselves. Those questions I asked, maybe if I can get an answer. One more time. How many of these so-called fans do we have in our country right now, and what are you doing with those who, I don't know, are waiting for? Because if they don't work, I imagine they'll probably go like any other machine. Why and who decided that we would get as many as we would get? Maybe one more thing I forgot about. The government has decided that this has been done to the Department of Commerce, which has neither staff nor reference. The Ministry of Defense, for example, has a huge procurement service. Do you know where people were at the time of the first wave, the people in this job? On hold. On hold. Instead of using them usefully for such important things as it was, I agree, the acquisition of fans or medical equipment and protective equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Rosec and will be discussed by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I must admit that after listening to some of the predecessors and some of the views, I have little doubt whether we have the same audit report or have different versions. Indeed, we are talking again about some different things, then, I will say, there have been certain discussions or discussions just below the level of this Parliament. We make a bad reputation for ourselves. If you describe someone so rudely, Parliament will not rise to anything. Every debate, whenever we have a session, we start with a patriot. He was the only one on that patriot who was convicted, that painter Jurcek, and never mention it. Then the bank hole is mentioned, and SO all these things, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is not in this report anywhere. The report covers the whole of 2020, from the proposaler's point of view it was noted that up to 13. The 3rd virus in Slovenia was not present, everything was ideal, it is said as in the 8th group of the periodic system where we have pet gases. Everything was ideal when this government came into office, but everything went bad, everything went wrong, nothing went wrong. It's kind of weird, you've been doing all right for three months, and then there's a total mess, and before that, everything's perfect. Personally, when I have reviewed this report a little bit, I also have a question, including with regard to certain debates. Why, though, did the former government decide to empty the warehouse or supply with protective equipment? I don't know, every normal company has a warehouse, there are valued minimum reserves in it, then there are some reserves that, when there are minimum reserves, it says, we go to that, we have to restore the quantity, and then some maximum reserves. It is said that the optimal movement of the warehouse is not caused by any additional costs. But you certainly have to look at the situation on the market. When the previous government emptied these warehouses, this was one such important factor — why did someone say that we were fully stocked by the end of 2020? Was it possible to be a little more distant that he knew that the problems would arise on the market so that the equipment could not be delivered? I don't know. This is where the question came up. 12. 3, we know the date, the previous government declared the epidemic. It's like right before your resignation. The fact is that the warehouses were empty and we are very much dependent on the import of this protective equipment. Indeed, the whole of Europe has done what? In search of cheap labour, production moved to China. We've moved everything to China because there's cheap labor and we're just going to go shopping here because it's the easiest to buy and expensive to sell. This is what all Europe has done. And where did Europe have a problem? She found when they began to lie together that she did not own production. Yeah, great. We don't have one either. And if you don't have your own production, you have an empty warehouse, and yes, it's a little hard to balance a price and negotiate a good price. But this was all done before this government's term. Normally, all economists know if the demand is high and the supply is low – where do the prices go? Up! Everyone who sells likes the price to get as much out of this as possible. What did this government find when the mandate came? When she wanted to have a real state, there was a list of what we had, from this and the second to the third, of what we had, where we had and how much, despite our very large public administration apparatus, there was no way to get this data. So we don't have anywhere, there was no record to say the quantity of these articles is so much, we have them there, the expiration date is so much. There was no record. And here is one key question for me: Who and why did it fit in the past?Oh, my God! This inefficiencies and inefficiencies, I would say, after all, the mess. In the past or on purpose, someone has done this, or people have been incompetent, because someone has benefited or disliked to do it. In public administration, they used to say that you don't go to the airport to get tired, to get some sleep, or to work, to say the word. The rule should also sometimes be that it is better to go home from work than to be tired. We sail this water all the time. If you'll just let me ask you a few questions. If we thought that such a system as it was, in a chaotic situation, would work, then in fact if it did not work in regular situations, if it was imprudent, even in some extraordinary circumstances it could not be. [[…]] I hope, and this is my summary that this government will settle this mess, and we will know exactly at any moment how much we have somewhere, who is responsible for the acquisition, to see this systemically. Not that in the past all these things have been exploited. Let's see, more than the same guidelines were in all these purchases of medical equipment. You don't even know why one buys here, why one buys there, we don't have some single procurement system, everybody buys it just like it suits him, because it's good. Or what? I don't know. That's what we should be talking about, these things. But it's not like we're talking about some patriotic thing, and there's some nasty microdebates. That's not it. With this, the level of reputation of the National Assembly will not grow; it will only fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word, and Natasa Sukič is prepared. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! I would be happy if there were a minister here today, who is primarily responsible for this, but unfortunately it is not. Before I conclude with the Court of Auditors, I would like to open a few important dates for a better understanding of everything we are talking about today. I'll start with 27. 1. 2020, resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Sharc. At that time, January 27th, nothing was yet known. Some of you say otherwise, but this also explains to me your timepiece, which you have on your portal or then you gave it, and it is still not removed, which is very incorrect for me and for all of us. The first date you mention here is 31. 1. Italy declares a state of emergency. Then the second date is 22. 2, Italy decides to isolate 10 cities, and of course then continues in the first found infections outside Italy, Austria 25. 2, Slovenia 4. 3, then the announcement of the WHO 11 epidemic. 3, Slovenia 12. 3. and Croatia the day before and so on. Two specific dates, which are crucial to the success of the first wave, are 6. Three and seven. 3. These are two dates that have been carried out by the government of Marjana Sharca, despite the fact that the Prime Minister has already resigned. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 3. At that time Minister Klampfer carried out this, and the next day the ban on all visits to hospitals. These were the key. Why? Because this government is also operating on these measures all the time, closing down, closing down, closing down. And it was the key to the success of the first wave that you could then immediately after the takeover of the government, surrender 14 and continue with this implementation of large quantities of purchase equipment. Here is something more concrete to mention, the 25 February date. At that time, there was a second meeting of the Committee on Health in the National Assembly, where we discussed these measures very specifically. His Excellency the Ambassador of Italy was also invited. We had a very honest conversation. She was also Secretary of State, unfortunately there was no minister here, but she was Secretary of State Repar Bornšek, who then even asked to leave the meeting earlier because she had a meeting on the same day with all hospital directors to check the condition of the hospital security equipment, including fans. These were the key agreements. Three days later, they had time to confirm it with all the quantities by email, and I would still like to see that information at the Ministry of Health, as I told your predecessor Mr Cantharutti at the time – to get it for us. For this reason, I also know how many fans there were on that date, and this also proved to be true. LMSH insisted on this and proved that we were right. It was just a delusion. Such incorrect deception is not nice, and with this timeline and later to compare protective equipment, where one of our fans, which was purchased, was compared to your fans, which are of course the most expensive today because they were incomplete and useless. Not to say they weren't prepared or complemented and upgraded before the second wave. And that's the greatest omen I've ever given. Despite these large 100 million spent resources, we were not prepared for the second wave. That's the lead. Practice shows its own. Everything else doesn't even give me that much credibility. Everything else – this is said by the Ministry of Health, because, at the time of our government's order, it was still under the authority of the hospitals – was carried out and then, with your takeover after 14. I have evidence of this, including from the first people, hospital directors, and it's proven. In public, however, you are still trying to discredit the government of Marjan Šarc, who has done exactly the same under all the rules as all other European countries. Not only did she act among the first in Europe by locking up homes for elderly and visiting hospitals, except for Italy, among the first, but not among the last. However, as regards the formal procedure for the epidemic, it is more theoretical, and it is important how we acted if we are practical. Let's talk practically. Therefore, I wonder why – so I am sorry that the Minister is not here to answer himself – Minister Restoration was not at government meetings in the last 14 days. This is crucial because he was responsible for the purchase of equipment that should be replaced by 27. 2. when the stock was released. Why did he not then suggest that this equipment should be completed as soon as possible, rather than by the end of the year? These are the key things. Then why do we have a minister? The Minister has been read here for the last time following the rules of procedure, who is obliged to report to the Government and to propose measures to be taken thereafter. These are the key things. If I'm from entrepreneurship, how do you do it, how do you do it, you should do it here. And here, politically, we are deceiving each other into the mud. That's not right. At the time, the Ministry of Health was doing the right thing, to the best of our ability, we were in contact with Italy all the time, and it acted as it did at the time. So I wonder how it was possible that immediately after the takeover of the 14th power, they began to acquire so much then all these quantities of material. Yes, of course because the government in the shadows has already begun to prepare for all of this. In view of this report, the Court of Auditors shall disclose everything else. Of course, it's just a report from the Court of Auditors, it's been handed over to the police, it's going to go to the Court of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office. I think that this government must also have an interest in concluding this case to get its epilogue. It would be best for everyone, of course, if everything were in the best order, but I hardly believe it would be possible. But that's all I'm gonna say about the Court of Auditors. This government does not wish to accept this report and endorse it in any way. However, in another period before, the KPK was on the wallpaper, because this party, who is now the largest in the ruling government, did not respond and at that time the KPK did not recognise and swore to this Court of Auditors with the same President, she forged it into heaven to do everything right and to the contrary to others that they were not doing the right thing. The eyewitnesses to the Court of Auditors for a gainful activity – it was not a salary, it was a prize. I say, Slovenia should be proud that we have two people on the Uefe summit. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u45	My colleague, please return to the content of the Court of Auditors' report, not to the fees at Fifi.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u46	Yes, the Court of Auditors. You don't recognize this report. This was not a pay, but was a prize, and as for the Slovenian situation this high prize is also a very high contribution to the treasury state of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia. Because all taxes are here. I think we're cutting a branch on which we're sitting, and then those experts who can walk over the fence, we're putting them down, we're trying to disable them. This is what I think we do not do properly, even in public, and that we are strangely watched what we do in Slovenia or this government with experts who want to show something more. The epilogue will be completed once the KPC, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary have done their part on the basis of this report by the Court of Auditors. Then we'll tell Bob the beans and we'll get this over with. However, I would like to do as much as possible during this time and that there will be as few consequences as possible for the third wave in which we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Simon Zajc, asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I may briefly answer the questions, some that have been asked about Minister Restovalska and his responsibility in the previous government to purchase this equipment. Here, however, you need to discern a little about what happened in the previous government when the Department of Commerce Reserves became the one responsible for the purchase of protective and medical equipment in this epidemic. This became only with the conclusion of the current government, and in the previous government the institution was responsible only for the renewal of those stocks envisaged in the five-year plan, and was not in charge of what meant that the care of protecting and needing medical equipment would be sufficient in one of the other areas that you managed. It's important to know. At the time – in your debate you also mentioned why he did not get it if he was in charge – I now said that he was not in charge of it. At that time, a decision was taken by the Government to restore these stocks in accordance with the five-year plan by the end of the year and, for the rest, it was more work or individual institutions or ordered by the Ministry of Health. At that time, Minister Restorationšek, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, prepared the first legal basis for this, because it was expected that a waiting-for-work measure would be necessary on the basis of the coming epidemic, and both ministers prepared it at that time. So he took care of the area he was in charge of, and he became in charge of the acquisition of this equipment then in the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u50	Thank you for this explanation, which, of course, I cannot fully agree with. I made it clear that the hospitals must have been responsible for this at the time, and the orders were running. I have specific information that fans have also been ordered, and I will not talk about names now, because there is a lot of revenge in all areas. But you transferred all those orders immediately to the 16. Is that possible? Now to pronounce once again, the minister who was obliged to act, 14 days was not at the government meeting, and he should act for protective equipment, medical equipment. [[…]] Then who should if not them? However, health care has acted, and 12 million have been allocated to the government of Marjana Sharca hospitals to obtain this equipment, and these purchases have been made. No country then went to mega-Romania, only then in the second half of March, but in April there were mega-Romanian supplies, and before that, there was no telling how much will be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to explain, Mr. Secretary of State? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u52	I don't think we understand each other very well. In the same sentence, you said that the offices were in charge of procurement, but at the same time you told Minister Počvalšk that he had not attended the last two meetings, and he should have obtained it, even though he was not in charge of it. Do you now understand illogicality in your question?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I propose that we go back to the content of the report, leave other things behind, and perhaps on some other occasion, which will be thematically devoted to these things, let us focus and discuss them. Natasha Sukič has the word, and she'll be given the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. As we look at the Court of Auditors' report, this has clearly revealed what we know all along. In fact, the government of Janez Janša acted untransparently and uneconomically in the purchase of protective equipment. In fact, she took advantage of the acquisition of this much - needed equipment to feed her intermediaries with a strong supply of fat commissions. I did not understand the previous dialogue when Secretary Zajc explained, but I think it is the highlight of the absurdity that one of your arguments is to speak out on empty storage reserves. Minister Restorationšek, who was responsible for the completion of these tasks, is today Minister Restorationšek, who is after Minister Restoration from the previous government. This is something amazing, I think it is particularly arrogant and actually mocking not only from the opposition, but mainly from citizens and citizens. What are these stories and fairy tales you're telling here? Let me point out those crucial, crucial burdensome findings of the Court of Auditors. I'd like clear answers here, Madam Secretary, if we don't already have a minister here. For example, the equipment was purchased without the appropriate certificates. We heard, didn't we? No appropriate certificates. Contracts were concluded under less favourable conditions than they were introduced in tenders. The Treaties were signed without offers. The equipment was first taken over and then signed contracts. Well, now you guys, please define these actions. How would you define or define these same acts if you had them on Sharchev’s conscience or any other government that is not your government? I really want an answer, Madam Secretary, to the question of explaining these four indents. I'll tell you how Members and Members of the ruling coalition would feel. We'd yell: corruption, customerism and so on. And I'll tell you, we wouldn't be wrong to yell it out in such a case, because it's not just here and there a little mistake in that chaos and that outbreak that's a really bad thing. We can all agree that it has not been easy for you to deal with this, but we are not talking about some small mistakes. We are talking about these things that have been detected by the Court of Auditors, and we are also talking about that you have actually created some kind of chaos on purpose. Right after the establishment of an interdepartmental government group to assist in procurement, you deliberately created chaos. Why? In order to make matters not sufficiently transparent, sufficiently transparent. Miha said well in the opening position today — to be able to fish in mudslides, it is necessary to scale the trough first. This actually happened, respected and respected, chaos was created deliberately and consciously, so that these commissions could then be shared with various friendly networks. Even the narrowest relatives were involved in these stories in some cases, unfortunately, even from Urska Bachovnik to Minister Tonin's mother. Even people like that have found themselves in this story. That's the problem. You may not think so, but actually that's the problem. You, the government and the ruling coalition, of course as well as I do, know that in fact we all see what is wrong with this matter. But what do you care? You're worried about how to suppress the case and protect yourself from prosecution. And how do you do it the easiest? By taking a hit on the police and pressing on the court. And we watch that all the time. We're looking at incredible cleaning, personnel cleaning, headquartering in the police department. For example, the first criminal you immediately replaced and placed — who? A person who has a mortgage of sexual harassment who is a specialist in wiretaps and other special methods [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u55	My colleague, please return to the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u56	In short, a man with a criminal record becomes the first criminalist in the country [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u57	My colleague, I'm warning you again, please talk about the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u58	Why? To prevent the investigation, to investigate the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, among other things, and to prevent anything else. Let's say at the NPU we know what your problem is – that some other investigations from the past are prevented, say links to Orban, Hungary and so on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u59	My colleague, I'm giving you a warning. Please talk about the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u60	In short, it's a carefully crafted technology of impact on the police and on the judiciary, and that's that famous deep country that you're always smothering right in the SDS party. This is what this report is about, among other things, swimming in the light. This is really this deep country, respectable. It is not surprising, therefore, that the President of the Court of Auditors, who, of course, is the most responsible person for the present report that we have before us today, is the report that you would like to delete. For, as it is said, besides technology, how to share public money with your friends, it reveals and troubles that it was involved, as it were said, in the purchase, a bunch of individuals, from friends and relatives to many others who did not really have anything to look for in this process. And of course everyone says they just wanted to help. I'm not going to say that they didn't want to help you not to say, I don't know if I'm just insinuating something, but I don't know what's mean, but let's ask ourselves, who's supposed to help with 16.6 million commissions or 143 percent margin, like Tonin's Acron did. Who? That's right, well. Or, say, MD GLOBAL Logistics, which received ten times its annual turnover, even though Fursov is in debt. But that's how people got jobs. Those who owed our Furs were getting jobs. Not to mention [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u61	My colleague, I'm giving you a second warning. Next time you break, I'll take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u62	This is all a matter of this report. Not to mention the ghastly work of Geneplanet and fans. Since the section did not like the opinion, it requested a second opinion. And since he did not like the second opinion, he also narrowed down the second opinion. Just so Geneplanet could get the deal, whether this equipment was usable or not. You had to walk your head through the wall and push, literally, this business. What's the worst is lies about direct procurement and logistics, even though they were offers, and they were concrete offers – but why? Because, of course, there are no commissions for direct purchases. You can't give your friends commission there. And here's Rest, we've all seen it, shamelessly deceived and lied, that direct purchases are prevented by applicable legislation. What's more than a lie, so fat that she can't be fatter? This is of course not true and a good example is the offer of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, with which the state of Slovenia would save €41.7 million. You heard right, 41.7 million euros. Not to mention that thing with Alexander Cheferin when he was dealing with Jack May, but it was rejected only because the suppliers, the ones you had, wouldn't be doing it if it did. Explain to me, but maybe I'm wrong. Please explain what this is. In these matters, respectable, true corruption is hidden. That's what we're talking about. Business gets people from friendly networks, they're paid commission fees, we don't go directly because there's no commission there, and that's what's really wrong with this story. This is what you want, an inefficient or ineffective use of budget money to express myself in the correct terminology. I'm gonna stop here now. In the meantime, I see that the secretary has gone out nicely, although I have asked him four specific questions, to answer these four indents, which are listed in the Court of Auditors' report. I demand these answers, even if later, when he comes back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I suggest that all the following discussers also concentrate on the content of the report, not on things that have absolutely no connection directly with the Court of Auditors' report. I hope that we are able to draw the point, content, to argue with the data and matters in the report from these 250 pages, and that there is no need to add any ballast. Procedurally, Violeta Tomic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u64	Madam President, once again, the practice is repeated, as always, when you are running this National Assembly, namely, that you are censoring Members and their debates, which I find totally unacceptable. My procedural proposal is that either you stick to the rules of procedure, you do not comment on our discussions and you conduct the session properly or you leave it to someone who will be able to do so objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u65	Thank you very much. A colleague, if you know the rules of procedure – I hope that you have read it – is there exactly in Article 75, so that you can only talk about the material on the agenda. Not about Fifi, not about public debt and nothing else. This material is not in session today. When it is, we will discuss it as well. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! It has just been said that all the events described and covered by the report are the product of planned chaos. In this first sentence, I would even agree with the previous debate. But who caused this chaos, and why did the circumstances of the report come about? First, the sinking ship left the Left. Whoever leaves the diving ship first knows. This then, together with Mr Marjan Sarc's resignation, caused the circumstances we are talking about today. These circumstances were, in fact, very frightening at the time. We had completely empty warehouses because the previous government didn't do anything. And don't say she didn't know what was coming. January, February already knew very well what was coming. She didn't do anything. Even more, the only million medical masks that were still in stock in Slovenia were allowed to export, and even made it possible to do so to China as some kind of assistance. And after it happened in a situation where there was nothing in the warehouses, when everything was empty, they packed it nicely, threw the rifle into the corn or jumped into an empty pool, as it's called, and left. Today, with all the debates here, those who have done this only prove that they are completely without responsibility, without conscience, without ethics and without morals. If we had the least responsibility, we would have taken it, for the circumstances in which they left Slovenia and about which this report is talking, and we would have left this Parliament long ago and from politics. Which would be that minimum of political hygiene that a person would actually expect. Today, those who have caused this chaos are handing out responsibility. You don't know if I'd laugh or cry. It's humorous this week. What's this all about? The chaos that stemmed from the conduct of the former government, caused by the elements of the time, by those who caused the crisis, led by Levica, who left first, and then by Sharc and all others. They're responsible for trying to get rid of what they can. This is really the period that this report is talking about. Without this report, it is not possible to actually assess it or to understand it. At that time, all other countries were significantly different, then large countries, France, Germany and so on, had already prevented transport even through their territory for medical equipment, including protective equipment, and some had even seized shipments that had come to their territory. These are the circumstances in which she had to act immediately, she did not have a day of rest, the new Slovenian government. And that's what you forget. We should first talk about this responsibility when we talk about responsibility. And then everyone tried to help the best they could, but in these circumstances, it was extremely difficult. Because what happened? Anyone who had access to these funds had, of course, had a problem that everyone who produced these funds would price if things were even available anywhere in any way. And then he manipulates that data. Let's say here you have recorded how much it should be, and you've talked about this a lot right now, bought respirators, are said to be ventilators that are not supposed to be directly usable, immediately, without additional equipment, to fight the crowns. But you forgot to say that at the time it was clearly said that this is being bought because there are simply no others, and that in the case of extreme force it will be used for those who do not need such complex care as those with the crown, and this will release those fans who are adequately equipped for this purpose. That's why he's going and he's manipulating himself today. They would only be replaced if this was absolutely necessary. Today, however, it cries out what corruption this is supposed to be. Come on. Because it was getting rid of what else could be done. All the circumstances that were then are quite forgotten today. It's done on purpose one year later, that's not the case. It is impossible to talk about this report unless the circumstances of this report are taken into account. Signed under this report is someone who, if he had a minimum of political hygiene, would have given up a long time ago. The Internal Policy Committee, which I am leading, has adopted two and a half decisions two months ago. Firstly, it calls on the President of the Court of Auditors, for the apparent incompatibility of his performance with the post he performs, to resign and, secondly, to urge the PSC to initiate proceedings on the suspicion of the corrupt conduct of the President of the Court of Auditors. And that's what happened. As he walked out the door, the President of the Court of Auditors suggested that this would be like revenge. Is Vengeance Reliable? Does this place have a serious policy? NimahCity in Alaska USA [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u67	Comrade Grimes, please go to the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u68	I am talking about the report, Mr Vice-President. This report is completely unworthy, and you know it. But I would have agreed with a colleague who had already talked about it, who said, because Mr Happy is getting the prize. The prize already, just for what? And who gets the reward in advance? History says it's just one profession that comes into play here, if that's what you're saying from the opposition, that it's a reward. It's a pretty awkward thing. This makes it virtually impossible to discuss, and you all know that. In these circumstances, it is not understandable to do so without considering those circumstances. But in those circumstances, it was about understanding everyone who was involved, and today it is forgotten that they are trying to solve what to get rid of to save human lives, which you obviously care about, because otherwise the previous government would not have resigned overnight and packed up. Before that, however, it was taken when masks were exported to China at a completely empty warehouse. Once again, all the other countries had already done exactly the opposite, they had taken care of themselves, and eventually it also helped someone, and eventually it was, say, the first to help us, the Czech Republic of the Visegraj Group. All of this is forgotten today. But who caused this? You. And today you are talking about responsibility – excellent, I also agree in this work with you, take responsibility and leave the political scene. By the way, you don't understand this either, that with this bumping that I don't think people are going to judge positively for you, you're opening up just space — you think you are yourself — for someone else. You'll see what happens in the next election when there's a new face. You'll disappear so you won't believe what's gonna happen to you. And that's the problem we're facing. Today we are wasting here a valuable time when we should take measures to get out of the crisis, and we are talking about a report that is unworthy, which must be made clear, which has been done in a way that is also clearly a violation of the legal rules. That is why we have also called on my committee to put in place control. And KPK introduced him. That's exactly what I'm talking about, and that's what you're referring to. And this report, even if it were not for all these circumstances, was announced as revenge upon the departure of the President of the Court of Auditors from this very room when he took up my committee when he left prematurely. And how hard everyone tried not to talk about it! Today, when we have one completely unbelievably written report here, there is much debate and talk about responsibility. I'll say it again. I agree with this – take responsibility and leave politics. That would be the only hygienic thing that should be done on your part. Let others come who will be credible, but then we can, I think, easily agree on all the problems ahead and back. Just as in Slovenia, no country of the European Union has done – in order to completely empty warehouses, to leave people behind because they are citizens, citizens, children, the elderly, on the sled without protective equipment, packed up and went out of power. That's not how it happened. And after it was saved by those who inherited you, which could still be solved, to the best of their ability, the problem is. Very interesting logic, I must say. Very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, this only proves that you are interested in one thing – power at all costs. That you don't care about the safety of people, not about ethics, not about morals, not about anything, and that you are literally in conflict with responsibility when it comes to you. When it comes to other people, your mouth is full. Only responsibility begins with itself. If you do not exercise responsibility for the circumstances that this report refers to and you have caused — and even yourself have said that this has been deliberately caused — you have just admitted this — if there is no responsibility, how can you talk about any responsibility?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Before I give the replica to Natasha Sukich, I'll just give the next two. Marko Bandelli will be the next, and she will receive the word of Andre Zabret. Now it's a replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u70	Dear fellow, you really are turning everything you have to. The chaos was caused after the establishment of the Interdepartmental Group. The best thing for you to do is ask yourself why the warehouses were empty, because he was a minister in the previous government in the same place as in this one. So you can explain to us what was wrong with the Academy's offer of science and art, which would have saved us €41.7 million because it was direct, it would have been interstate, not through the various intermediaries that you've raised to burn your head. And almost in any case, something was wrong. This is what we are talking about and what the report is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u72	Thank you, President, for your word. I don't know who's from the Ministry of Economy here. Rabbit's gone. The secretary's gone. Good. I understand his words in the opening speech, his position that he must defend the reputation of the minister, must defend the reputation of the MGRT, must defend the reputation of his party, which remains, must also defend the role that he plays. But you know what? With all that he wants to defend, he does not really defend anything, only confirms our concerns even more – that there was a tremendous misunderstanding, if you say so, between the purchase and something that every ordinary person involved in the procurement understands was seriously wrong. It was bad. That's what we said. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. you requested as the Government, and you wrote a letter to everyone, to all patients that all purchases must be made centrally, directly from the supply reserves. Some didn't even listen, then they got ahead as it was in Maribor, as it was in Celje, other hospitals themselves were getting further because they didn't believe they'd get the equipment and what was that moment. So it was twice chaos, not just once chaos. After they slowly saw that this thing was not going as it should, they gave another order with a threatening letter on June 24th, and now you really need to get everything central. It's a document, it's an official document, there's nothing secret or hidden. You know, it's no wonder that after it's gotten this way, in such an amateur way, it's a catastrophic way that I'm going to say something else now. [[…]] I would like to see and look slowly at all these contracts, because I will have the opportunity to look at the procurement contracts and conditions that have been, and what you have concluded as trade reserves with these companies, if guarantees have been given for good transactions, for example. Since these are guarantees, bank guarantees that are issued, one such guarantee is required every time a call is made. This is the guarantee that the one who signs out will be the one who makes the call to deliver what is intended. Otherwise, with the bank guarantee, you're hiding what wasn't arranged if I said so. I hope that was done. I haven't seen all the results yet, but I know it wasn't done everywhere. I know it wasn't done. You fucked poor poor Pececnik for 5 million when he came to see you and everything he is. I don't know how it's going to end if you've already asked him to help you and what it is. First of all, Minister Tonin should take this responsibility and let this matter be resolved, because I think it's also right, because this is a disgrace, a pure shame. Because I'm already at Tonin's. What he said earlier in his position, colleague Reberšek, will be quoted as saying: “What a critical word of the Court of Auditors exists inside.” It's the same as when Bishop Rode said that it was a small slip that Bell 1 and Bell 2 went bankrupt to leave 2 billion to us, all of us. It's the same thing. He had this way, he doesn't see as bad in certain things as he is. They probably have other grips on this problem, and we know how these grips are. Collegiate Udovč: “It is wrong to accuse the coalition of political accounting.” What political reckoning?Oh, my God! We speak here clearly and loudly that things have happened that shouldn't have happened here. There have been acquisitions, unprofessional, amateurs that give rise to suspicion of corruption. Suspicious, that was clear, even in the report itself. It doesn't say so eclectic, but yes. It's about life. You know, it's the same as saying I give money to the company. If you don't know that, you can give the company money, one or 35, it'll all excuse you. In the end, it will all apologize for what was justifiable to look like. Everything can be excused, "I have the accounts, you know, we needed this" and the second year will live again with two instead of 35. It's the same thing. In this way we must be excused: because there are lives, because we save lives, we are allowed to do what we want to do, to do what we want to do, the procedure is our open procedure, to do what it is. That's not how it works. I'm afraid not. It's not working. It doesn't work, because there could be other grips. But I see the greatest paradox now in right-wing voters – they are still applauding about it. Stealing millions, I mean, it's been a lot of millions of dollars from the taxpayer's money, and it's still not known exactly where and how and how he went, or how the reports show, but one is still applauding. They clap: “Come, in, how did you save!” It was about life. Farmers don't sell wine, wine growers haven't sold wine for five months, but they still applaud them for six months. I hope they will be aware when the new elections are to be held, where to go. But the best part is that the people who are looking at us right now are thinking about what's going to happen now. Are we going to save something here with this treatment that we see here today in the National Assembly? President, you know we're not going to save anything. What was done is done, in my debate I said earlier, in the position itself, now to look for once the milk is polished, without connection. What's done is done. You little heads down here and you feel a little guilty, at least that's what I hope, but we literally won't. At least I don't. I hope that the law enforcement authorities will achieve what they have to achieve. What is most sad is that despite all that we have seen, how much you have purchased such and different matters, you have refused to supply Pfizer and Moderne. That's one million doses. And this is where life really came from, and I think the state resents this government. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u73	Dude, I'm afraid that's not on the report. Please return to content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u74	Yeah, it was about lives, anyway, that's it, vice president. I'll finish and that's all I'll say. Voters, soon there will be elections, I hope, as soon as possible, because this is no longer sustainable. The voters will see for themselves and let them think about you and us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Andrej Zabret has the word, and he will get the word Predrag Baković behind it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Today I heard a very good sentence from a colleague – that in fact the current Minister of Restoration is persecuting Minister Restoration from the previous government. In the few minutes I have at my disposal, I find it difficult to touch all the things that indicate that the acquisition of protective equipment was obviously a business for decades. As a response to the interpellation of Minister Restoration, the government has already rushed in May 2020 with its report on the acquisition of protective equipment and has begun to explain quickly how they saved lives and how everything is okay with these acquisitions. However, as was clear at the time, it was a rather unilateral and biased message or report. Today, the Court of Auditors' report makes it even clearer why. If I quote the statement of Minister Restoration in the media: “All who are interested in the truth about the acquisition of protective equipment, I will submit all the documentation and tell everything they are interested in. In fact, I have called on the authorities responsible for these tasks to investigate this case as soon as possible. Once and for all, the investigation will explain who was buying, who was selling and who was deciding everything," he added. End of story. Today, we are at the point where we have all these facts on the table, but we are listening from some to how unworthy this report is. However, we are talking about the Court of Auditors' audit, the clear concepts of who is something for whom and how he bought. The audit report reveals contracts, e-mails, testimonies, records. If the Supreme State Auditors write down, I quote: “The procurement procedures have not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers, and in some cases they have even been inconsistent with the rules and other acts”, the end of the line, I think that everyone here should agree that it is necessary to pay particular attention and take the matter seriously. The Secretary of State or the Secretary of State is not in the Chamber, but, Minister, in fact, you have everything you want before you, you have invited the authorities to investigate everything as soon as possible. However, as has been seen in the publication of the report and subsequent reactions, apparently the Minister does not like the report most. I believe not, because the report does not speak for the Minister and the Government. The main conclusion of the report is that, despite the exceptional circumstances that have been duly taken into account by the Court of Auditors, the Government, the Ministry of Health, MGRT, Mors and the Department of Freight Reserves, of course, have not been effective in purchasing protective and medical equipment. If I summarize another statement by Minister Restoration on a concrete report that we are talking about today: "I am delighted to publish a report on the audit of the procurement of medical equipment, which has been so politicised in recent months. It is important to me that the report does not contain any talk about corruption as announced by the opposition, but rather a systematic analysis in which MGRT plays a smaller role." End of story. Let's see if that's true. It's not. The Court of Auditors shall examine the use of public funds and the suspicion of criminal services shall be waived to the competent authorities. Therefore, as the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesel, told the police on 30 December 2020, he handed over 13 contracts in which the suspicion of criminal services was detected. Therefore, it is not too much to refer to the non-restriction of corruption risks and abuses in the audit report itself. Minister Zdravko Restoršek wishes to remedy the damage in any way and to relativize the content of the Court's report. He also tweeted on February 18th: “I am tired of these media lies. The contents of the report are completely different and speak of Slovenia being systematically unprepared. Not a word about my personal role." End of story. Let's just take a quick look to see if the minister is telling the truth. The report states: “The Minister for Economic Development and Technology was responsible for the effectiveness of MGRT’s behaviour related to the implementation of emergency purchases of protective and medical equipment. During the period covered by the audit and during the audit, the responsible person was MGRT, Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.” End of story. The textual link between the Minister for Economic Development and Technology and the Minister responsible for Supply, who rightly designates Pavlovska, appears several times in the report. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Supply and the MGRT abbreviations appear more than six hundred times in the report. I hope we've all heard right, more than six hundred times. It is clear, therefore, that all the numerous irregularities found in relation to MGRT by the Court of Auditors are also personally responsible for Minister Zdravko Restoršek. According to the Court of Auditors, the procedures laid down in the Law on Freight Reserves and other existing rules or strategic or implementing documents have not been established in such a way as to be useful for the effective assessment of equipment needs. All well and well, but this does not mean that the Government has had permission to further dissipate tasks between different stakeholders by violating the basic principles of public procurement and practically creating a breeding ground for corruption. Here's a question for the minister: where has he actually been? As far as I know, the Minister is already in charge of the Ministry of Economy and indirectly of the Department of Commerce Reserves. It's the third term. Even in the previous government, when you keep blaming empty warehouses and the previous government. Why is the Minister not yet in order to amend these procedures? The establishment of different interdepartmental and project groups, the non-definition of tasks and responsibilities, and ultimately the postponement of all responsibilities to the Department of Reservicing can only be carried out for a certain purpose. Let us remember the Minister's calls to pay the advance, and today it is urgent, without a guarantee to the selected company. Calls on a Member of the National Assembly, sending e-mails from SDS customer e-mails, instructions for external pro bono co-workers who had no powers and formal powers. But we all remember the paper masks, including the audit report we have ahead of us, has this picture. Masks made from plain paper serviettes. They were composed of four-layer paper towels and kitchen rubbers. Essentially, the mask changed its utility, according to the minister, is the color of the kitchen rubber. If it is replaced with white instead of red, then the mask is much more useful. I'm really interested in the minister's honest opinion whether he ever looked in the mirror and wondered what he meant by that. I just know what people think about it – that you have them as a fool and that you make fun of them, that you are inefficient, irresponsible, without a shred of bad news, you spent the money of citizens and citizens. Even today, all these masks are in the warehouse, and a few of them are in the garbage cans. For these masks, the state paid between 0.76 and 0.80 euros for a piece. Masks were not protective, but hygienic and only to protect the general population. The mask as such UKC Ljubljana did not verify, as was claimed at the time by Minister Restovalšek, and were without an appropriate certificate of use. A number of civil protection headquarters have rejected the masks because they were unfit for both wear and protection. If we go back to buying these masks, it wasn't made according to the rules, as the Court of Auditors also finds. The Institute concluded a contract with Korez-Sorting on 30 March for the supply of 500 000 protective masks of EUR 380 000, based on the intervention of an MGRT staff member, when she transmitted an electronic message with information to the office, I quote: "The daily supply of 50,000 masks and the price of 0.76 euros per mask has been agreed with the company in view of the urgent needs." End of story. This did not ensure a uniform treatment of tenders and tenderers, and also contributed to the activities of external stakeholders who did not have any legal powers and powers. Come in. The contract was concluded before agreement was given to the contract given by MGRT only the day after the contract was signed. The priority treatment of this tenderer is also based on the conclusion that it has not yet been concluded within the framework of the Interdepartmental Working Group on the date of conclusion of the contract, since Owa, which was in charge of providing security assessments under the Interdepartmental Working Group Protocol, has not yet made this assessment on the date of conclusion of the contract. The security assessment was obtained only after the contract had already been concluded. And more. This security assessment was negative, which means that, subject to the protocol, the offer should not be placed at the institution at all. As I have already said, the Owl expressed its security concerns in the sense that, in the event of the operation of the State with this selected tenderer, Korea-Sorting could be compromised by the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Why, I don't know, but maybe the evaluation is related to information we could read in the media – that the marriage partner of the owner of Korez-Sorting was involved in the hacker attack on Luca Koper. Let me get this straight. The Court of Auditors notes and confirms that the Government has set up a highly opaque system that has operated on the principle of too many midwives, a bald child. Not by accident, but by deliberate and deliberate means. First, she was responsible for the purchase of equipment for public procurement by a wholly unsubordinated Department of Commerce Reserves, then she established an inter-departmental working group, the day after which Minister Restovalšek was also his project group. In short, grandmas just kept multiplying. In the meantime, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence and indispensable external stakeholders were also responsible. Thus, the government dispersed its powers and, however, blurred its responsibility. But the Court of Auditors wasn't confused or stopped, only a little more work had to be done. In short, at least one dispersion and blurring were planned in the procurement system. It made it easier to hide and take refuge. The Court of Auditors in its audit of the purchases of equipment, which has rightly received the term business for the decade, confirms what we have already read in the interpretation to Minister Zdravek Počvalšk and, of course, to the Government as a whole. A negative opinion expressed is quite expected. It is now indisputable: the Government, MGRT, the Ministry of Health, Mors and the Department of Trade Reserves have been ineffective. The relief situation was not even an emergency. It's over. Before any person rejuvenations the term ineffective – yes, the efficiency of spending public funds is what the Court of Auditors examines and the suspicion of criminal services gives way to other authorities. That's what it did. Let me remind you again, there were 13 contracts in December, as the President of the Court of Auditors said, also committed to the police. But we will wait a little longer for these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Predrag Baković, Ms Mojca Škrynjar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. The Court of Auditors is already the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia after the closure. The Constitution also provides that the Court of Auditors is independent in its work and, of course, the Court of Auditors Act adds that the acts by which that body exercises its audit powers are not allowed to be challenged before courts or other public authorities. This is not simply meant and free of charge, but to give weight to this institution as such, so that it can report independently, objectively and clearly in its work on the investigations it is conducting. But what's going on? It happens that there are discredits, there is a perversion of individuals as well as the whole body, when it comes to a report, of a situation that does not appeal to the ruling coalition. You know, such controls are also carried out by other institutes, the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Anti-Corruption Commission, and every so long we are, of course, receiving some news as to whether the whole institutions, whole bodies or individuals employed there are performing some weaknesses or are being discredited and so on. Also, the media, which has been alerting the acquisition of protective equipment all the time to the lack of transparency, inefficiency, have been subjected to some pressure, certain cases of discredit with a view to weakening in advance the influence that these supervisory institutions would have had. And of course, the institutions of the executive branch of the authorities responsible for purchasing this protective equipment have relativized all the findings. The Court of Auditors carried out its work or supervision in detail. The report shows that the Government has not been successful in purchasing, even though we are taking into account the current exceptional circumstances that have taken place during this period. They have detected 13 cases, as has been said from my predecessor, possible suspicions of crimes, that is, cases where errors may have been committed intentionally, and this is of course even more worrying. Predictive procedures are under way and the matter will soon be clear. And since such a report by the Court of Auditors is damaging to the government, of course, these discredits began, first personally to the President of the Court of Auditors, who wanted to replace it, then they also went to the Court of Auditors with the police. The police have initiated a pre-trial procedure against the President and are investigating in what way, how, in what ways, the court carried out an audit and whether or not they violated any law and whether there has been any criminal offence in the proceedings. That's possible, but it's a little unusual. Similarly to the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court is in some way becoming a disruptive factor for the coalition, because it is doing them some kind of overriding, there has also begun to be discredited by individual judges and also by the body itself. Same pattern, same mode of surgery. Not to mention a letter written by the Chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs requesting the dismissal of employees in the Legislative and Legal Service because they dared to write an opinion that was not attractive to the coalition. And again, it's the same pattern – we're not dealing with content, we're trying to discredit it. What did the Court of Auditors actually find? Among other things, the role of individual authorities involved in the procurement of protective equipment has not been met for a very long time, and this is also the responsibility of the Government. This isn't about one month, this is about the whole year 2020. Critics also fly to the Inter-Resort Group, which acted incomprehensiblely because they did not focus on reviewing tenders, in fact dealing with purely some other tasks. A colleague in front of me was also talking about paper masks. These were purchased by the Ministry of the Economy, despite the fact that Owa has expressed reservations about this, in the case of two tenderers, in the sense that the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia could be compromised in the case of the operation of the State with these selected tenderers. But the paper masks were still bought. If at this point, when a security authority with the highest possible expertise, which is most armed with information, advises you against some activity, and yet you do so, it is no longer a matter of any negligence or carelessness, but it can do more. The Court of Auditors also draws attention to the purchase of protective equipment directly, indirectly. In this report, which is very extensive, there are a bunch of activities that have already been highlighted by my predecessors, and I will not even expose myself in this way. I wanted to draw attention to the way things are going here. So when it comes to an institution, an authority, or an individual trying to draw attention to certain irregularities or bad practices, he begins to pursue them. And I have done this in cases from the Court of Auditors, through the Constitutional Court to, if you will, employees of the Legislative and Legal Service. I'll say the following to the conclusion. The Court of Auditors' report is clear, unequivocal and burdensome, as the government's and the coalition's reaction to this body shows. I really can't imagine what would happen if the applications were reversed if we were in the coalition, if such practices were to take place, so that the Court of Auditors could draw up such a report. I believe that at that time we would really not be here anymore, given that our colleague has already asked us to disappear from Parliament for the last time, and today again, to take responsibility and leave the political floor. We should probably have left him by then. And I can bring that thing back. Let's just turn the tables, just reverse the situation, and things get completely different, don't they, colleagues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, preparing a mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u80	Thank you. Today we are discussing the Court of Auditors' audit report on the effectiveness of purchases of protective and medical equipment to control the spread of SARS-COV-2. All of us have at one time faced injustice, wrongdoing, perhaps caused by close or distant companions, perhaps in our childhood or in our mature years. Today we are all present and all our citizens and citizens who are accompanying our meeting. The biggest injustice is, of course, the content of today's debate. The opposition has taken the right to judge the people who, in the worst crisis after the war of independence, saved human lives. It is not possible to deny the opposition the task of critical judgment of the work of the Government, but it is possible for today's proposaler to read out the concealment of information and obscene lies. Why? While two investigative committees are under way and members are studying materials and we are committed to confidentiality, the applicant himself is publicly distributing documents and works of wrong and malicious conclusions. I can say this in the same position as the proposer himself. The Court of Auditors has submitted an audit report which does not confirm what the applicant points out. What does the audit report actually point out? Among other things: “The urgent purchases took place on the basis of legislation and regulations which did not allow for organised and fast public procurement.” That the government is Mariana Sharca of 11. Three to 14. 3. 2020 concluded one mask delivery contract which was not realised that its Minister of Health had issued eight orders so that it did not conclude contracts with suppliers as it should. That the government of Mariana Sharca is only 27. 2. 2020 adopted a decision on the application of the items in the commodities reserves and that the goods released shall be replaced by 31. 12. 2020. Watch out, 31. 12. 2020. Almost 12 months. Government of Marjana Sharca of 1. 1. 2020 to 14. 3. 2020 has done nothing to monitor, assess the state of stocks in stocks and has carried out a practically negligible number of purchases of protective medical equipment. Recall the situation when the government of Janez Janša took over the government. In neighbouring Italy, the epidemic exploded, and infected people came to Slovenia. The warehouses were empty, new quantities were ordered in 10 months. Ten months when the dead were counted in tens of thousands. The nursing homes were small, outdated, overcrowded, and the hospitals had a few ten intensive beds. The situation reminds us of an accident at home when a water pipe breaks. You're shocked and angry. Now you go looking for plans for a house, you look for accounts issued by a plumber, you sit down for a computer and you write a complaint to the Market Inspectorate, then you look in the phone directory for three plumbers, you ask them for the price of repair and you call your wife and ask her for an opinion. Once you've agreed on who's going to pay for the repairs, you'll have to call the selected engineer who'll be driving to you in half an hour. Until then, the kitchen and the living room will be filled with water that reaches an inch high, the parquet will retreat, the wardrobe closets with clothes on the floor will be wet with water. Wouldn't it be better if the pipes first ran into the basement and closed the valve and then thought about it? If necessary in my metaphor change sex, add a bite of doughnuts that are in addition to bananas, yogurt and burek in this room the main focus of opposition parties. The government of Janez Janša was doing the best they could in the face of invalidity regulations, empty warehouses, a threatening epidemic. If anything were wrong, the police, which is an independent organ, would find out. But I don't think there's anything wrong. Indeed, I am also reading the correspondence we have obtained for the purpose of the investigation, and of course I do not intend to disclose the details, since the fact that Commission President Robert Pavšič, LMŠ, has already spoken about the investigation is unacceptable. But I can say that none of what he said as a candidate is true. What Micah Kordish said, of course, is not worth serious thought. A sober man can't buy it. The opposition, in its complete incapacity, uses distortions of facts, falsely presents the Court of Auditors' audit report, resorts to lies, rudeness, attacks just to cover up the terrible incompetence of Marjan Sarca and his team. The only thing we can count on for Marjana's sake is that he gave up. This saved thousands of lives and then saved the economy and hundreds of thousands of jobs. Marjan Sharca's resignation was a heroic act, a fair recognition of his incompetence. But the government is so sweet to his colleagues and partners, especially now that we are emerging from the epidemic, when the government of Janez Janša has provided 11 billion for reconstruction and development in the country, to attack with all the cannons instead of hiding from shame. Anyone who wishes to receive an objective picture of the audit report that we are considering, I recommend that he read it himself. It shall be made publicly available on the website of the Court of Auditors. It will be clear from the summary that everything the opposition tells is a distortion of facts and an underestimation of Slovenians and Slovenians and their intellect. The Court of Auditors described the situation and the only thing it could have done was that the recommendation to the Government of Janez Janša was to improve the rules and protocols of 2016-2018, which had not been drawn up by itself because the other government had done so and which had been forgotten by the Government of Marjan Šarc. However, the government of Janez Janša had already dealt with these problems in such a way that it could work. And she was working and still doing great, despite the constant insistence of the opposition. He deserves credit and an apology from the opposition. If I could overcome such honor, I would apologize. I doubt the culinary opposition can do that, but I expect an emotional explosion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I don't think it's too much to point out that today's debate is on the Court of Auditors' report. Please, let's not stick to this darkness any more than we do. The text was wanted by the proposer. Mr. Pawswich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u82	Thank you very much. If I had a chance, I would have called sooner, but unfortunately, I had a job on an investigative committee, which my colleague also referred to, or one of these. Speaking of culinary illustrations, we could also talk about yogurts. But we'd rather do it another time. I have heard many things in additional explanations at the outset, which is actually an insult to some common sense for anyone who has actually read it, but not as selectively or as understandingly as you, a respected colleague, have done. Already the secretary at the Ministry – although I was expecting the minister here today, I think these are serious accusations, but okay, according to the rules of procedure, he can also be replaced by a secretary – already Secretary Zajc has at times misrepresented pears and apples. This continues continuously in all other discussions on the coalition side. You keep saying that, and I've already warned you about that in the additional supplementary explanation, the empty warehouses, the lack of equipment. Dear colleagues, if today we were to monitor hearings at the investigative commission, those which were public, it would be clear to you that these equipment was not nearly lacking and that the right time had come from the right places into the right hands. What you're doing is already beyond the limits of deception, it's a conscious lie. Which, if someone misrepresents some information, deceives unconsciously, if someone uses it forever, then a calm soul can be said to be lying. Who was responsible until the adoption of the 2020 crisis plan for hospital supplies? And who's responsible for the hospital supplies today? Is this the Department of Reservoir, maybe? Neither then nor today is this the Department of Trade Reserves. But who was responsible for the supplies under the Goods Reserves Act, I've read to you for the last time, and I'll read it to you again because it looks like we have a very short-term memory. In accordance with the Law on Freight Reserves, and this is also stated in the report of the Court of Auditors, “Imam MGRT”, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, if it does not tell you anything, “an important role in the field of supply reserves, as it monitors, inter alia, the supply of basic supplies and identifies and reports on supply to the government”. The key is this: “reporting to the government”. “It analyzes economic developments in terms of their impact on market supply and on the supply reserves in the future three months and six months, and reports it to the government.” Who's the third consecutive MGRT minister? She's the same person. Now, you tell me or someone tell me, because the Minister is not here today, in which mandate he has forgotten his role under the Law on Trade Reserves. When did he report correctly or when did he not report? Did he report it to Marianne Shartz? He's not here. As he was negotiating a new government with the new prime minister, he did not attend any government meetings. Well, somewhere this minister's been keeping his assignment a long way off. The situation of stocks, according to today’s testimonies, was perfectly satisfactory. Nobody said we didn't need to get new protective equipment and all, but it was actually a state created by purpose. Today, however, we can concentrate on what we have read in the Court of Auditors’ report. Of course, the Court of Auditors writes in a language that is close to them that does not go beyond their jurisdiction. Let's do this one more time. The Court of Auditors has assessed that the Government, Ministry of Health, MGRT, Mors and the Institute, each within their competence, have not been effectively organised in the procurement and procurement of necessary protective and medical equipment. “Procurement procedures have therefore not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of providers of protective and medical equipment, and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts.” If I translate this again: in violation of the rules and other acts, they were illegal. But the Court of Auditors cannot determine illegality because it goes beyond their jurisdiction. However, it can be concluded that they were not carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, so that they were not transparent, that they were not effective, that they were ineffective and that there was no equal treatment of tenderers, which means that someone was preferred. All you have to do is read it. I was just waiting for you to mention this passage, how only one order was made. Please read on page 154 of the second paragraph: "In the same way, the Ministry of Health carried out some activities for the order of a million and a half masks totalling EUR 5 million 460 thousand without VAT on 13 March, without the conclusion of the contract even though it was supposed to be a verified supplier. It follows from the documentation obtained that the Ministry of Health sent an electronic message on 16 March, after obtaining a technical fitness assessment, indicating that the communication was accompanied by a document, a mask contract and a decision on the award of the contract, to be equipped with MGRT markings and that it proposed an immediate signature, as the matter would be necessary. No contract has been concluded and the reasons for this have not been clarified by the auditors.” I can only explain it to myself as if someone at MGRT had stopped this business. And IGRT didn't explain that either. Yeah, you, buddy, it's funny, and I'm not. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's it. And when we talk about how someone discloses information and who doesn't, you just remember, a respected colleague, who at a meeting of the commission, was an unauthorized and unauthorized expert, explaining the content of the closed session. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He did not have the power to access sensitive data, and I have also reported it further, so I hope that the leadership of the National Assembly has acted accordingly. One thing that is also in the report, which speaks in favour of trying very hard to conceal some of the data, is interesting. Let's go to page 177. You can see for yourself so you don't tell me I'm making something up. “17. In March, three days before the establishment of the e-mail address Respirators.mgrt@gov.si, a member of the National Assembly to the Institute, MGRT and the Ministry of Health transmitted an e-mail indicating that the informal expert group from UKC Ljubljana positively assessed the fans for whom she attached the table and Excel.” Then there's an interesting note: "The proof of this statement is an e-mail, which is 17. 3. Member of the National Assembly addressed the e-mail address of the Director of the Institute and the e-mail address of the staff member of the IGRT, which we obtained from another source, from the Institute, MGRT in response to our e-mail request of 6 October concerning the meeting of the same day on MGRT, did not disclose the content of this e-mail in a way that did not identify the sender and recipients.” There's a lot of these samples in this report. And what are they pointing to? To further promote this lack of transparency. The President of the Court of Auditors also made public on television that MGRT was not a co-worker in the process of reviewing these acquisitions. I have no reason not to believe him, even because such matters are actually happening throughout the report. And there's a lot of stories like that in there. We have over 250 pages of very interesting reading. Under the line, I can agree with colleagues who say that this report is very public and, more importantly, extremely burdensome. But no, it's always the same story over and over again: we saved lives, let it cost as much as it wanted. It is not a problem if it is true, but the one “cost as much as he wants” was not designed to be transparent and in the interests of the public, public interest. That's what's wrong. It was made in the interests of some private interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one has the word mag. Dejan Židan, prepare Mr. Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Among us I see only one representative of the government, the Secretary of State has just gone somewhere. I'll tell you what I'm thinking about at today's extraordinary session of the National Assembly. It is quite clear that we will not vote today because the competent committee - I would like to read this because it is correct - has not been able to vote for the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that it act immediately in accordance with the recommendations and corrective actions of the Court of Auditors listed in the audit report The effectiveness of the acquisition of protective equipment" and so on. Has not the competent committee been able to adopt the following decision: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that, as soon as possible, amendments and/or additions to regulations and/or documents provide appropriate grounds for dealing with emergency situations such as the epidemic of communicable diseases and others.” And some similar conclusions. The problem is that this is something that is self-evident, and the National Assembly, when it adopts such conclusions, only shows that the path of cleansing is always necessary and necessary, because it is a matter of public resources that we must protect, and because of the political majority that it is, this State Assembly is not able to accept at this time. That's the first fact. The second fact we need to talk about is as follows. The Court of Auditors’ report, of course, is not the prosecution as such. Nor is it the court that sends and gives criminal, such or otherwise sanctions. The scope of the Court of Auditors’ report essentially recommended what needs to be done. However, when he suspects that there has been a significant violation of the law, this suspicion shall be submitted to the competent authorities, whether it is the police or the prosecution, and then these authorities must investigate the matter to the end. This Court of Auditors report also correctly states the following: the purchase of medical equipment was carried out in some way in exceptional circumstances, not only in Slovenia, in the international public as a whole. The report doesn't run away from that. The report also quite correctly states that all legislative infrastructure, but not only for Slovenia, was simply not prepared for such emergency situations. But in the meantime, the Court of Auditors is very clear about the two main things that controlled them, whether they were effective. So whether the collection of information which equipment is missing in Slovenia and needs to be ordered as a matter of urgency has been effective. And the Court of Auditors will prove that it was ineffective. You remember the various representatives of the Slovenian Government, the high representatives, with high titles, when the numbers did not change by 3.4%, the figures changed by hundreds of percent from day to day. And then the Court of Auditors also asks whether at least the purchase of the equipment found to be lacking was effective. And she says she was ineffective. You have established, of course, a government, an untransparent system, when, in fact, on the same day, various ministers of the same government have explained to the public how the procurement of urgently needed equipment is taking place. Now imagine that if ministers of the same government do not understand how the system works, then the system is not transparent. When the system is not transparent, it allows abuse. That's what the Court of Auditors said. What we have to say is this. Once irregularities or suspected irregularities have been identified in the acquisition of protective equipment, the Government could react quickly, transparently and immediately. There was an opportunity back then. It is not only that another purchase of equipment would be effective — the term used by the Court of Auditors — but something even more important would happen. It is likely that the confidence of citizens and citizens will be restored, which is essential for the control of the epidemic. If there is no trust, namely, no repressive norm, no repressive body can force people to implement measures that are necessary. Fiasco in the acquisition of protective equipment is probably the first step that has led to some sort of breakdown of the epidemic control system. I will not now talk about this terrible number of needlessly dead in the country, but the acquisition of protective equipment was the first step towards building great mistrust – because there was no immediate correction – which is now, if you look at public opinion polls, in general. Of course, only a report from the Court of Auditors will not send anyone into any criminal sanctions. This is the task of the prosecution, the police and later the courts. We are somewhat afraid to observe developments, information that those investigating the suspicions of crime can suddenly find that they are overqualified to advance into traffic police. You know what that means. Not only do we who live in Slovenia forget that, even if not others, the eyes of the European public are directed towards Slovenia, because we have a task ahead of us to lead the European Union during the second half of this year in these troubled world times. In addition, it must be said that, at this point in the National Assembly, there are two Commissions of Inquiry that are investigating the background of the activities to establish the political responsibility of political officials and that, if any other irregularities are identified, both Commissions of Inquiry shall transmit them to the competent authorities of prosecution. I don't know if they'll be able to complete their work, because no one among us can assess whether the sustainability of the current minority government is one year, one week or a month. No one in this country really knows that. I personally believe that it would be best for the country to have the sustainability of this minority government for just one more day or an hour, that would be useful for the country, but even if they do not finish their work, it is clear that the responsibility will have to be sought. I am also quite sure that you will extend the scope of your work to explore whether all the vaccines that could be ordered are ordered, or whether it has tried to save citizens and citizens, and that is why we are now in an impossible situation. If we were in the middle of a few weeks ago about failed vaccinations in Europe as a whole - data for Europe is incomparably worse than when compared with the United States of America or if you want with the United Kingdom - we were the third worst in the past week, but I do not even hope to think about what the data will be in two or three weeks. Nor do I hope to think about what this means for a particular type of vaccine. The Grand Country of Germany estimates that they will not vaccinate people except on their own wishes, which are under 60 years old, another large country, France, to limit them to 55 years, and the Slovenian profession find that obviously Slovenians and Slovenians are slightly different so that these precautionary limits, which others set, are not necessary in Slovenia. Which is why I actually wish today that the subject of the bill would not be the one who has to supervise. Do you know how wrong it is if the Court of Auditors finds something that some particular political official doesn't like and becomes a target? And not the TV, but the target in person, because it's allowed to write all the wrong things about the institution, the leadership of the institution, and the president of the institution himself. We are now looking at a similar story in the Constitutional Court — when the unconstitutional act of the Government is repealed, it becomes a target. But, with respect and respect, this report and also the decisions of the Constitutional Court need to be treated with respect, with due care, carefully examined and acted immediately. Therefore, there is no need for fear. In fact, honourable Members and Members, I do not understand what happened to you, to those who voted against, for example, not being able to take a decision that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that it actively and constructively cooperate with the authorities of control and/or prosecution in the search for and enforcement of responsibility for the inappropriate conduct of officials and public servants in the procurement of protective and medical equipment, or that it strives to exercise their responsibility. Here's to the end. The authorities should do the work they have to do. Our task, Members and Members, respected and respected, is to make sure that all we can do is ensure that independent institutions maintain their independence, to prevent political attacks on them and to ask them for more revisions, more recommendations, and we hope that the responses will be immediate if something needs to be corrected to be fixed immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Igor Peček, prepare for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The Court of Auditors, in the report that we are considering today, has in fact confirmed what we have been interpreting not only, but also proved to Minister Počvalski in some way. The report of the series, while at the same time confirming the suspicion of non-transparent procurement of equipment, which we have also discussed at the three meetings of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in May and June and July last year. The negative opinion of the auditors is, in some ways, entirely expected. Today it is a fact that the Government, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence and the Department of Trade Reserves have been ineffective in the management of the procurement of equipment. However, there were no mitigating circumstances, and this was not particularly stressed by the auditors, nor was the emergency situation. When we talk about efficiency, which is in addition to the use of public funds, it is what the Court of Auditors has to check, so it says that the Court of Auditors has not written down allegations of corruption or anything against the law is not in place. For we all know that the Court of Auditors suspects the services of criminal offences and has already done so in December. The 13 contracts, as Mr Tomaž Vese, President of the Court of Auditors said, and which is also recorded in the report, have been handed over to the investigating authorities. My colleague Paulič has already said in his debate, efficiency appears in various forms of language in the report as many as 195 times, I will add, efficiency in a negative sense, so as the term ineffective, while very rarely, I have only noticed three times, the term effective as on page 227. I will also quote it in order to refresh it in what context the concept has been effectively expressed. I quote: “We believe that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with NIJZ, has effectively, in a comprehensive manner, accompanied the development of the spread of communicable diseases, COVID-19” and immediately thereafter continues, and I quote again, “but the information and warnings received have not responded effectively enough, as they did not immediately approach the identification of stocks and the systematic assessment of the needs for emergency supplies of protective and medical equipment.” End of quote. I can, of course, ask myself why. The second important conclusion drawn from the report is not surprising at all. This is because the procurement procedures "were not carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of tenderers". This is also literally the result of the report. In one of the coalition MPs' discussions, we listened to the Committee's allegations of crisis management, and we need to know who's in charge. I could even agree with this, but it is more important to know who it is directed to do so, and those who receive these commands need to know more precisely how and when it is necessary to carry out these commands. The Court of Auditors now confirms that the Government has established a highly opaque system. I'm sure it's not random. On the contrary, she acted thoughtfully and deliberately. First of all, she was responsible for the purchase of equipment by an institution which was not qualified for this task. She then established the Inter-Resor Working Group, and the day after that Minister Restoršek also established his project group. For what purpose? I am confident that with one man alone — to cover up responsibility. As regards the observation I made at the outset on non-transparency, this is also demonstrated by the multitude of newly established e-mail addresses, which, like the e-mails of some individuals, came offers. On purpose, most likely, you've never collected them in one place, examined them. Offers were actually exchanged by self-declared persons, but not by all. A lot of them were left unopened, and we've heard that before, and you haven't been wrong about that. The competent authorities concluded contracts even though the tenders were incomplete. The government purchased equipment or fans that were useless for the treatment of patients with covid-19 without the necessary supplements. We entered the second wave with three quarters of the unused fans. And if I quote again one of the entries in the audit report on page 174, it reads: “In several cases, purchases of protective and medical equipment were found to have given specific instructions to various persons who were not employed at the Institute, to the Institute, to the directors and to the remaining leading staff at the Institute, on how the tenderers and under what conditions the Institute should conclude the contract, or whether the whole procedures for obtaining tenders were carried out by third parties or at least significantly involved in the implementation or acceleration of the essential stages of procurement procedures.” End of quote. What specific cases are we dealing with? Four contracts for the purchase of fans concluded by the intervention of staff at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, with specific selected tenderers, with certain elements, with quantity, price and parity. Two contracts for the supply of protective and medical equipment were concluded on the basis of the intervention of another staff member at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Six contracts for the supply of protective equipment were concluded in such a way that all parts of the communication, acquisition and assessment of the appropriateness of the offer were carried out through a staff member at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. I'm not gonna count all of them. In conclusion, in order to conclude two contracts for the purchase of protective masks, the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour transmitted a rapid hearing. What's the difference? In all of these cases, they directly cooperated and decided persons who did not have the authority or competence to do so. Once a very successful foreign businessman in an informal conversation told me: “If you make a friendship because of the job, it is a great success if you make a business for friendship, but you couldn’t make a bigger mistake.” Finally, I would just like to mention the Committee on the Economy and the recommendations proposed. We expected the Committee on the Economy to reject the recommendations proposed, but it goes on to reiterate what, in fact, the government coalition opposes when it rejected those recommendations. If I say very simply, it opposes actions that in mature democracies are self-sufficient and do not even need an invitation to respect them. The government coalition disagrees or does not feel that it is necessary for the Government to act in accordance with the recommendations and corrective actions of the auditors and at the same time does not recognise the findings of the Court of Auditors, because government parties, errors, disputed practices are divulging and I do not say that there is any suspicion of irrational public consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next debater is Dr. Franz Trček, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said to me too many times. Today I spent most of my time on an investigator who deals with this subject. As I have said many times, after a week of the existence of this government, we have received some first information from people who are actually close to NSI that they are very domestically purchased. What was behind the constitutional arch opposition’s affair was something that could then be called hypothetical accusations by the government and the coalitions and their supporters — perhaps someone else is behind me; no, there is no SNS — proved to be a fact through this audit. Someone effectively abused the epidemic, referring to “save lives”, turned out little light or erar for a while so that it could not be seen how the transactions of budget consumers would go, did not disclose contracts for a while, and actually did some friendly business. That's basically the facts. You know, even some excuse of the type we're listening to, extremity was such and such – if all extremities, including the first two Jans, were 100 times worse than you're showing, it's not the right excuse or excuse for your use. Even if he wasn't a grandfather, of course, I would watch this company and the state pay off 60-year-old bonds. Beyond all that has been said, beyond the attack on the Court of Auditors as one of the key watch dogs, you know what actually hurts me the most, and I look at these last days? Whether Zdravec Restoration will go to parliament or not. And then there's all sorts of marshmallows, and some people say, "No, no, let's keep the Zdravec on the MGRT, because Zdravc is making money." But that's what Igor used to talk about. You know, with this economy, or, if you want, the political economy, someone's going to make a difference, we, gentlemen, are going to say, "I'm going to say this because I'm at the end of my language." Such an approach will be the smartest part of our grandchildren, and their grandchildren will go to some societies and countries where they will have a different genetics of political culture. And this gentleman, who is most burdensome here, will explain to me on television yesterday about political culture. I think so. Shame on him! And I actually have the most pain with these jobs when the mask affair broke out, that if not elsewhere in the Economic and Social Council, the representatives of employers and employees did not condemn and demand the resignation of the government. You know, because we're talking about some mental scheme. And that's the problem! This mental scheme is even more pronounced in this government than it was in any previous one. I am currently finishing reading a very interesting book called The History of the Cold War by Arne Westad, who is the greatest expert in this field. Of course, sometimes it is ungrateful to draw parallels, but you know, the third Janša government is a combination of Mao Cetunga during the Chinese cultural revolution, which some here in Parliament very much express, and Stalin in the last years of his life. Of course, in Slovenia you cannot send us as Naval to any KZ lager, even though it seems to me that some SDS member has also written this from Styrian province in order to shut us all down. And on Twitter, you're ratting out the Khmer Rouge. Then what you're doing in the woods, even some madman on our side is sorry to war like that. And beyond this report, this is some fact, this is some kind of rakrano of political non-culture, primitiveism, arrogance, for which we need a precise medical laser, and this is essentially to be cut and burned and burned and burned and removed from the Slovenian political space. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr Marijan Pojbič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will begin my debate with a sentence mentioned by the proposer at the outset, and this is the attitude towards a decent one. This third government of Janša has completely destroyed the right attitude towards decentness. And then you wonder if the level of political debate in this National Assembly is at the lowest possible level, if trust in this government is at the lowest possible level, and you're talking about some kind of division. That's not what this is about. It is a division between the democratic opposition and those totalitarian aspirations that the President of the Government has. You say you saved lives. You saved your wallets and wallets from your political allies, friends, even moms, sisters, family members, which is totally unacceptable. If you compare an epidemic to a war, then it's definitely a war profit, which is a crime. According to KZ, the market inspectorate is also investigating. I think that someone in the middle of the epidemic can deliberately send out non-functional equipment, called masks — useless, PCR tests — useless, ventilators — useless, those who fight and actually try to save people’s lives — says medical personnel, doctors, nurses — in the DSOs, this can only be done by an extremely immoral person. And a dot. And here, here's the point where we start talking, not pretending that the previous government didn't do it, and we don't know what we had to do. Some even dream that the opposition should apologize to them. You'll have to apologize to the citizens one day and all the victims. And what you're saying is there's a lot of beds in the DSOs now and then. Yeah, but why? Due to too many deaths in the DSOs, which is totally unacceptable. State Secretary Simon Zajc, who sat here on behalf of the SMC party, who came with the full mouth of the rule of law, zero tolerance for corruption and so on, ethics, morals and so on, says that the previous government had a negligible number of purchases made by the previous government. What a hoax! Who was the former government? The same Secretary of State was a minister in this government! So, there was a government. Zdravko's rest was still government, the third term is Minister of Economy! In fact, what you're doing is unacceptable, and we're listening to a lie from this government. And of course making fun of people, or as you like to say, taxpayers, because public money was in your private pockets. Now you take a breath when the report does not mention corruption. The responsibility of MGRT is always mentioned inside. It is unacceptable for the SMC Member to say that the Court of Auditors' report is a tool for political accounting and to address the President of the Court of Auditors immediately. But beware of anyone who has no pleasure in you and who does not keep quiet in your dirty business. And these are the media, which is, I don't know, the director of the STA, and he's the doctor who warns you that these damn fans don't work – you'll discredit him! You won't say, let's see why they don't work. And now you don't like the President of the Court of Auditors. It's best to replace them all. And in the end, you're going to replace the nation so you can have a good time. The Court of Auditors shall be the highest authority to oversee the operation of state accounts, the state budget and the full use of state budget funds. And now to discredit the President of the Court of Auditors because you do not like the report, this is simply for another system that does not belong to the 21st century and even less to the European Union at this time. You spoke here, New Slovenia's ambassador, that no one could predict what this epidemic would be like. What could we not have predicted? The first wave may not, the second wave we had to predict, you had to know exactly what was ahead. What we could not have predicted was that we could not predict the immorality of this government, which suffered commission. All right, well, you'd have to take the commission, too. Normally, they won't even work brokers for free, but then they should at least get quality equipment – right? But no! It's not working! In fact, we in Levica proposed in the previous term to establish a public procurement agency or medical equipment. The Court of Auditors also said that this would be very wise. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this is the sewerage of public money into private pockets, which is totally unacceptable. Adrie's staff told me how proud they would be if Adria's planes were to transport medical equipment to their homeland. But no, we sold Adrio and paid for expensive transportation. But we had overpasses of Nate's planes, that poor old people were being intimidated by bombers. It's totally stupid! While driving, NATO aircraft equipment is free of charge to other smart countries. Then we have, as Miha Kordiš said, “when the government of Janez Janša, commissions go to heaven”. And they're actually going to heaven, and everyone who reminds you of the arms affair, the Patriot and now this last purchase of medical equipment, is just the ugly, ugly one that tells you that you can't do what you want spontaneously. It's the opposition's job to look under your fingertips, but then you quickly replace, I don't know, the chief of police, the criminalist, the head of the NPU, the media, the courts, you'll change everything, just so you'll have the stones and you'll do what you want. And then we have what? Drugs, weapons, prostitution. We have talked here several times about what this government is really dealing with. You know, democratic systems just have a very difficult time dealing with these power centers that deal with some of these crimes. Let me mention that SAZU has offered much cheaper medical equipment, but no, that's not it. Also a question that no one has ever answered to me, why, in all CCs, Mr. Jožef Horvat, is the leader of the New Slovenia Group, when selling and purchasing medical equipment. We had these e-mails in our hands. What did that mean? And then Minister Tonin, who lost his truck of equipment. Did he ever find her, but did he ever tell us where this equipment was? And this same man will be entrusted with 780 million for the acquisition of military equipment. 780 million! Do you know how many hospitals we would build, how many homes we would build for the elderly, how many citizens could recover and encourage the economy with this money? But no. Man has no experience with the military, or he's just a fan of some gentleman who's a defender, and he thinks he can have these crazy millions. In short, let me tell you to the end that there have been too many victims because of your ugly actions. At some point, you will probably have to answer, if not before the law, and before God, as it is gladly called. And to ask yourself and ask your conscience how many people you killed with inactive equipment would really be appropriate, but not to ask anyone who tells you you're lying. And it happens that this arrogance and ignorance of this power goes beyond anything we've ever experienced. To replace the President of the Court of Auditors, to replace the press, RTV, Galeta, who said what was going on. I really hope that one day these things will clear up completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Marijan Pojbič. Get ready, Mrs. Jerca Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So many insults, so many convictions, so many accusations as I've heard from opposition parties today, and it's likely that they haven't been made since the Slovenian Parliament existed. Really amazing, inappropriate and offensive to all those who, with their heart and hard work, are working night shifts and so forth to solve the situation, save people's lives and everything that happened to us at the time of the epidemic. Mrs Violeta Tomić, I must say that I came to the hall right now, but I listened in the office of the debate that I was informed a while ago because I was on my knees and I couldn't be in the National Assembly that Mrs Tomić had made me one big ad in the National Assembly. I'm very proud. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, thank you very much. I hear you've been bragging about me. I can't believe it. Opposition member Levits praises Marijan Pojbič, all honours and thanks you very much for this! You said here today that we have done everything in the coalition to discredit the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vesel, and that we are doing this because we do not like the audit report. I'd like to tell you that this is a lie to the tenth degree. Apparently, you tell a lie so many times that you want it to become the truth. And you're not gonna make it. We, as far as the reports are concerned, have no problem. And in the report, what is written is written down, but absolutely nothing is written that could burden this government. Nothing. The Court of Auditors is not one to decide whether to condemn or not. I hope we're all aware of this and we all understand. After you spoke, Mrs Violeta Tomić, how many people died because the equipment was useless. I'd ask you how many people died because they were empty warehouses. Ask yourself that question, and you were a supercollective party. Then I'm going to read you some things that I think you'll have to think about, because the chronology of events is from one moment to the next. Then today I listened to Mr Pavšić, who spoke of some insult to common sense. Mr. Pavšič, if you had listened to the investigative committee, you would have found that everything about equipment was sufficient. Then you said at the same time that the economy ministry has a great role to play and a big word throughout the story. That's what you said today. But then at the same time you wrote in the last paragraph of your proposal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the findings of the audit report on the effectiveness of purchases of protective and medical equipment to control the spread of the virus as follows. In the fifth paragraph on page 5, “The Institute was independent in the implementation of public procurement procedures until 23 March 2020, and then the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy to assist the Institute in the implementation of public procurement, established an interdepartmental working group and transferred part of the procurement procedures to it, namely the procedures for dealing with supply offers for equipment. In doing so, she went beyond public procurement procedures. ” [[…]] At some point in your debate today, you have found out how important the Ministry of Economy is and that it should report on the government and so on and so forth. And then from this, you just don't understand what you're saying now: Whether you're lying twice or not, you don't even know what you're saying. On the one hand, I have a written document on the table, on the other hand, I listened to today's debate, and if you look at the magnetogram, you'll find that I'm right. Today I also listened to Mr Jewish, who, among other things, said that this was a matter of public funding, which we must protect from the suspicion that this audit report raised. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially SD and Mr Židan! How long were you in government and government? How long? 25 years. And what did you do at that time? How could a government that has been in power for a year or a few months make some decisions that would be completely out of law? How, if legislation were properly regulated, things would be the way they should be. It follows from the Court of Auditors that there was a number of shortcomings in the legislation that the government, when it took over, did not have to change. Since it's 25 years old, or I'll say a little bit of a distance, four years or a few months later, the government of Janez Janša, who worked very well, and you were in the government for 25 years – and what did you do? And that's why it's been happening, how this can happen, and what's really important is what you want to say today during this debate. That's what I'm gonna say next. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you were naive and ignorant, as you have repeatedly inspired me – and you are reminding me that I have completed primary school and that I have bought elementary school with sausages. Once again, I will tell you one thing that you must all remember, because it is right for the Slovenian public to know. In my environment, everyone knows. There were six children in our family, only the father was at work because the mother had to protect the children at home. How could you afford sausages and bribe teachers with sausages? If you could do this in socialism, I couldn't afford it, because my father didn't earn enough to do it in such a corrupt, corrupt way as you want to frame me. Everything I've done, all my education is on the National Assembly website and look at my education. Just to explain to you that you will no longer abuse the Slovenian media and instigate these lies and these deceptions. If you — my mother, thank God, are still alive, but I am very sad, it will be 85 years old, and if you could hear that now and what you have inspired me to do, you could only cry. Really. I have to tell you this, and it's right that I said this today, and I had to say this once to stop it once. With this practice of yours instigating. What had happened up to this point, and what the Government had done in such difficult circumstances, the government of John Janša, had done to solve and resolve an extremely complicated and problematic situation. Not definitively because this epidemic is still going on, but in the circumstances in which it has accepted the leadership of the country, it has indeed reacted as necessary and, of course, the entire coalition as well. Here I have to commend the entire coalition, no matter how you try to break all the claws and I don't know what you're doing to break it. There's something else I have to tell you. Since you lost your power, you have indeed lost your mind in some Members and Members of Parliament, and I apologize in advance. You no longer have feelings for people, neither for human health, nor for social feelings, but you have a very great desire for reinstated authority, for continuing privileges, for endless enjoyment of wealth, which you obviously never have enough. Now I will quote to you the prophetic words of Mr Ivan Kramberger, a benefactor from Negova, was later eliminated. Now I will quote you only one sentence, "and when they do not rule," – when you do not rule, the opposition that you have ruled for 25 years, I add – wrote, quote, "they will protest and call for the death of those who rule but are not of their kind." [[…]] Look at the Huick story that happens from behind when we have this epidemic when we have to solve things – what are you doing? You're squeezing people to such and different protests. You're abusing children. You're abusing high school students and I'm not gonna say what – of course, I'm saying all of this in slogans to understand each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u93	Mr. Pojibich, I'm sorry to interrupt. I suggest you focus on the Court of Auditors' report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Madam Vice President, I will. Well, I'll keep making recommendations. What I've been quoting is what's happening in this society right now. Since you don't have the authority, you'd do anything, go over the bodies to achieve your goal of coming back to power. This is insane, it is inappropriate and extremely harmful for the future and development of this country. Since I said to return to the recommendations, I think it is important that I introduce you to the chronology of events that will highlight and prove why we actually came into a situation where there was an urgent need to respond quickly and responsibly. Now I'm going to read your chronology very briefly. On 2 December 2019, Mr Marjan Šarec, in the fight against the Coronavirus – or so the article was written down Who actually screwed up, in slogans. On 13 February 2020, Slovenia sent 1.2 million protective masks to help China fight the new coronavirus. In addition, a contribution of €60,000 to the World Health Organization was earmarked for humanitarian assistance. Mr Šarec ordered that the storage facilities with masks should be filled back by December 2020. But you know how to imagine? We'd have been out of protective equipment for almost a year if we hadn't taken it into account, and if it hadn't been changed, Charec wouldn't have thrown a rifle into the corn! 22 February 2020: the situation in Italy is becoming very dramatic and our party's president and current government, Mr Janez Janša, are calling for a national security council. In addition to the National Security Council reference, Mr Janša also requires the establishment of a national crisis headquarters, the presentation of preparatory measures and the provision of direct and genuine information to the public. On 27 February, when calling for the closure of borders and the activation of civil protection, Mr Šarec replied, "those who have called for the closure of the border are merely spreading panic". 2 March 2020, Mr Šarec is making fun of doctors. The statement that doctors are afraid of the virus is legitimate but does not contribute to public calming. In Slovenia there is the first known case of coronary infection, and from the profession comes serious warnings, Mr. Šarec said it was fake news, but these false news came, of course, from the political spheres of well-known. And at that time, that was March 5th, while in neighbouring Italy they already count the dead. They're so many that their bodies are being taken away by the military. 8 March 2020. At the press conference, Mr Šarec stated that “the infection has not yet occurred in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia”. Although we have 16 people infected with the coronavirus in Slovenia this day, Mr Šarec insists, “we do not have an epidemic yet. There was no need for SNAV to call earlier. When would it be the right time? Mr Šarec said on national television that "when the time is right, we will also announce it". 9 March 2020: The government says it is not yet time to close kindergartens and schools. Mr Aleš Šabeder, then Minister of Health, at the press conference, said that “general closure of kindergartens and schools is not yet required, according to professional and Council estimates”. 11 March 2020: Due to the outbreak of the virus in Šmarjah near Jelšah, Mayor Matija Čakš orders the closure of the school and Minister of Education Dr Jernej Pikalo attacks the mayor on Radio Slovenia on 12 March 2020, when the mayors have no legal basis for closing schools. 12 March 2020: Mr Šarec simply says they will declare an epidemic, but not because of the health of the population. Then why is that? Citat, "we will announce it for easier organisation of work", said Mr Šarec at the press conference. On 13 March, the new government, Prime Minister Janez Janša, will arrive. At that time, Mr Janša stressed that the Government must start dealing with the urgent matter at the same time, that is, the coronavirus, and that at the first meeting of the Government they will start taking additional measures to infect the new virus. 14 March: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia for trade reserves runs into empty equipment warehouses. The equipment is not enough for doctors, but for other residents of Slovenia. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, it was necessary to react as a matter of urgency. We've had a lot of patients before. We had a problem with the number of doctors, nurses with no equipment, no beds, no respirators, and so on and so forth. In such an emergency situation, when the government of Marjana Sarca finished before throwing the rifle into the corn, because it simply found that he was incapable or did not want or did not have sufficient support in the coalition, the then coalition, that this was no longer possible. He threw the rifle into the corn, and at that moment the government of John Janša, who had to, had to react immediately. And that's ironic. In this record, when we talk about the proposal for recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the current opposition has written, among other things, in the fourth paragraph, the following: I am now speaking in this context of this critical situation: "Evaluation of the needs for goods to be obtained as a matter of urgency, without delay, and distribution to the users who urgently need it, in our opinion" – the current opposition's view is written, "in our opinion, a key process". I don't know where you live, where you lived! How can it be a key process when people on the other hand die when there is an emergency? Legislation also allows for completely different circumstances under such circumstances. The law allows that. In these changed and very acute circumstances, this government and this coalition have reacted as necessary: fairly, responsibly, very hard to deal with. Of course, at about that time, she could not take into account what you wrote here, which is the most important or crucial procedure. So it is because of you that if a hundred people had died, you would still be saying that the procedure should be followed. In our bureaucracy, in a bureaucratic country, we know what it means to conduct bureaucratic procedures. My dear fellows and colleagues, you write such things in here that have no connection, no relation to the Court of Auditors' report. And every time you push, you cheat, you lie, you attack this government like it's a criminal, and you condemn it. Today, when I have listened to a few debates; not all of them, many of the Members – and I appreciate that, Mr President, what you have now shown, you are not among them, certainly not, so I appreciate you – but there are some today, but I will not talk about names that condemn you all the time, as if they are in the prosecutor's or judge's phase. In advance, they disqualify, directly attack and falsely condemn, for which they have no legal basis instead of prosecutors and judges of this government, these ministers, including Mr. Restovalska, who must take the hat down, all honour, has proved through this whole story how to react in the given circumstances. So did Matthew Tonin, and he was particularly exposed to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, who had to connect all of this and find the right solutions in these circumstances. I never claim and there is no room in this room that I could say that at some point you can do your best and that nothing could be done differently, no one can say that and neither can claim that. This government and this coalition, when it took over the leadership of the country, did everything in those circumstances; perhaps with the assumption that I had previously spoken of: empty warehouses, a catastrophic situation and so on and so on. Today, I also personally wonder about all the things I listen to, these teasings, and how it is stolen. I'm asking if this is your practice by accident. How do you know how to steal when you keep saying how to steal? Do you have that practice? I'm getting suspicious in my 25s. So you know exactly how to steal! And now you're condemning this government with what you've been doing. Wait a minute, come on! However, it is not easy for a person to understand this, but from what I have heard from your discussions today, it is not a claim, but it is possible that this could only be in the 25 years of the rule of those who were in power, practice can. But that would be extremely inappropriate, unacceptable, that what you have done – in sayings I say everything that we understand – now you are trying to burden the current government, the government of Janez Janša, who, together with the coalition and with all the parties in the coalition, is solving this situation, this critical situation and thank God very, very well for now. When I said the answer to your hand was, look, the money went missing in the 25s, and only a few data to give you a sense of what I'm talking about. If we invested enough in the health system, we would have invested in health personnel. If we invest in health - care investments that are very short, we do not have nursing hospitals. What did you do for 25 years that we didn't have a single nursing hospital? Ten thousand beds are not enough for the elderly. In these institutions, they have poor salaries, insufficient staff to provide care for their caregivers. We have poor state and public infrastructure, little money invested in the economy, and tell me where the money went missing in the 25s. Who'd that money go to, that's what I'm interested in. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is obvious that there is a lot of money in the pockets of your left clientele; in yachts, in villas, even stolen villas, treating rich people at the expense of people in Switzerland. So in the extremely full pockets of privileged people. Apparently, power and money have gone to your head to the extent that you can no longer live in the real world, and you think it's only right if you're in power. It's just not true and can't and can't be. That is why you are using everything that is possible to ensure that the current government, its president, then SMC President Zdravek Pavlovalska, as well as Matthew Tonin and others who are working in the best interests of the Slovenes and Slovenes, are trying to discredit them with lies, falsehoods and instigations. Believe me, this will not work, regardless of the public opinion written by the Work written by the Evening, which they are trying to convert into a media that I will not publicly expose today. But look, believe me, with such an approach and with such attacks and such a revolutionary way of trying to replace the government you won't succeed. Slovenians and Slovenians, although we have 30 years of state, we have learned something: revolution is not the right way to go. To the end, the right way is to agree, talk and cooperate, and this has already been offered to you by the SDS party and the entire coalition. You'd better do this together and then we'll do something good for citizens and citizens, not throw prey under each other's feet, instead of working for people. This coalition works for people and also for you, from the opposition or at least the majority, would expect this under these acute circumstances. The political struggle for power was and will be, but not on the revolutionary path. Remember what the revolutionary path brought back. We don't want any of us to ever do that again. That is why I believe and I am sure that we are doing everything in our power, at least this government and coalition, to help people to work for people. Regardless of the political color of the parties in this coalition, we're dealing with the problem as much as possible, not with flirting with each other. And thank you to all coalition partners, I hope to say this as a Member who has five seats in the National Assembly, I am proud of those who are concerned with the matter, not those who are privileged. And it's the opposition that's about privileges, and it's the government that's about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u95	Thank you very much. At this point, I would just like to point out that today's debate is intended to discuss the Court of Auditors' report. I appreciate every debate, even if it is so abstract, Mr Pojbič, but not in a single sentence have you touched the content of the Court of Auditors or practically in a few words since the half debate. And I am just giving you good advice for the future, in the event that the Vice-President, your party colleague, happens to be in charge, you may be able to hope for two reminders and a measure of removal from the Chamber in such a debate. And I left you because I didn't want to cut your red or your debate. In this way, I ask all further debaters to focus on the subject, this is the Court of Auditors' report. We have a replica. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have very little time. So much for a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u96	Yes, thank you. He spoke for half an hour, but most of the time he spoke the word power. Very interesting. But I would not agree that you are abusing Ivan Kramberger, for he said: "Beloved Slovenians, the communists who will turn to hold back power will destroy you and rob you." And the SDS is a customer of converts. From Janez Janša, you have the most ex-communists in there. And he said that what John learned, John knew. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Now, once again, I appeal to everyone to focus on the Court of Auditors' report. The text was wanted by the proposer, Mr Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ambassador Pojbich has asked me some very specific questions that I think I can answer. Even if he won't listen because it looks like he's going to the office to listen. [[...]] First of all, I'd like to explain to him the difference between the Department of Freight Reserves and hospitals. Has the Department of Stocks ever been dedicated to the storage of medical and protective equipment? Partly yes, but not for cases like the outbreak. But it's already a matter of some other legislation and other subject matter. Today, we listened to a lot of hospital directors and directors at the investigative commission, and there was a common one in all that, both in January and April, the mask of the so-called FFP3 was the most lacking today. They weren't there at the time, and they're not here today. That's why it's very interesting that photo from the government's founding session, where everyone wears these masks that weren't there at the time and that aren't there today. And they only wore them because of the pear effect and the phototerm, that's also acknowledged by the minister. They were put off later. This speaks of how more important form is, not content. Of course, the Ministry of the Economy has a major impact on the procurement procedures, but it must not have the effect on the Department of Freight Reserves as it has had. And such a call as has been made by Mr Restoration to the Department of Freight Reserves, but it must not happen, is not allowed in any legislation, even vice versa, is prohibited. Not even in the worst of situations should such a call happen. That's what you don't want to hear or understand. This is a direct policy impact on the choice of a private contractor for the supply of equipment. It's not about bureaucracy, it's not about long-term procedures. It's obvious customerism. Whether there was any material gain or not in the background, that is another question. If it was not, the responsibility is only political to overstep powers, but if there is anything else, it is also criminal. As long as we get back to the Court of Auditors and the report. What does the Court of Auditors say? About the Interdepartmental Working Group, as my colleague Pojbič told me. Yes, with the Inter-Resort Working Group, he has relieved the ministers of the entire purchase route. No, he confused her even more because he also set up a project group and then the Minister of Health set up an expert group. And here's what the Court of Auditors says on page 154. “After our assessment, the MGRT case confirms our assessment that the suspension of the precise determination of the competence of stakeholders to conduct emergency purchases of equipment in exceptional circumstances leads to a non-systematic and uneven exercise of activities, with activities also carried out by unauthorised, disqualified stakeholders. The effect of such conduct shall be demonstrated by a derogation from the principles of transparency and uniformity in the implementation of the procurement procedures for equipment. This also proved to be true after the Interdepartmental Working Group was established.” March 24th. Well, I don't know who these people wrote after six months of intensive work. And we are already on the committee's agenda, which, by the way, was suggested by my colleague Pojbič, and this is China or a donation of 1.2 million masks to China plus 60 thousand euros in aid to the World Health Organisation to fight the pandemic. Obviously, there will be a number of times to repeat the same things. Yes, China or Slovenia helped China. Not with 1.2 million masks, but with the organization of transportation of these masks, which were of a private nature, it was a private donation. The Republic of China was so grateful to Slovenia that it returned this service. Then empty warehouses. I don't know if Comrade Pojbič knows how the Department of Stocks works, but I'll explain it one more time. The Department of Freight Reserves has two basic documents at operational level; this is a five-year procurement plan and an annual procurement plan. The annual procurement plan is amended several times a year and the annual procurement plan is valid from 1 January to 31 December and may be amended 365 times or even more if someone is willing to modify it. It will always apply from 1 January to 31 December. However, if the Minister of Economy, in accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves, was unable to carry out these purchases, there is another question. And apparently he wasn't. Then there's the SNAV story again, and I don't know what else. On 24 February, the Secretariat of the National Security Council, composed of the police, the military, Civil Protection, the homes of the elderly, the State secretaries, including the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Economy and what they found there – was the same secretary at the Ministry of Economy earlier and later – that the supplies of protective equipment were sufficient to meet the needs. But no, you need to call SNAV to politicize things you don't even need to talk about. And this SNAV secretariat met four days before someone was happily skiing in the center of the infection in Austria. February 24th! So, [[…]] The only thing that's right for us, if we're in power, is Marijan Pojbič. I'm sure it's only right, not if we're in power, but that you're not, because it's outdone now every measure of common sense. Only this matter that you forced us to accept is a report on the state, reasons, stocks and orders of personal protective equipment and critical medical equipment when the epidemic was declared and procurements that enabled Slovenia to successfully deal with it. You draw things out of this for argument, and I don't know how many times they've been proven to be liars; not misleading, lying! And one more thing, when you so much black out the Court of Auditors, read what you sent and what this National Assembly has accepted without my voice. 21st item at the end of the decisions of the Government or of the conclusions of this National Assembly, “The Government shall propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia an audit on the regularity and prudence of operations for the first four months of 2020 at the Office of Freight Reserves”. And in the next item, “The Government proposes to the Court of Auditors to review all procedures for the purchase, rental and maintenance of fans in all Slovenian hospitals in the last five years”. And then when the Court of Auditors does that, you don't like this report, and then let's do everything we can to relativize it as much as possible and toss it into some sort of obscene version. No! No! It's not right! And once again, it is clear to say: a call, a telephone call as received by the Minister of Restoration to the Director of the Department of Freight Reserves to Mr Anton Zakošk, is not allowed at the most difficult times or in the state of war, let alone at the time of the declared epidemic, whether you want it or not. He's not allowed!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has Jerz Korče to prepare Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u100	11. 3. The Government, the decision of the Government of Marjana Sarca, appointed the Ministry of Health as the contracting authority of the equipment on 11 March 2020. On page 112, the Court of Auditors notes the following: “The Ministry of Health would be an appropriate purchasing body, according to the Court of Auditors’ assessment.” That's right. Why? Because they have experience, they have an educated frame and they know how to drive these things. What happens three or four days later when the government of John Janša is formed? The following is the case: all together, this is what purchases are made, are transferred to the institution; to an institution that does not have adequate personnel, does not have an adequate education structure and does not have adequate experience. Minister Restoration was not the minister since the formation of the government of Janez Janša and he knew this. The office that becomes that contracting authority was up to 23. 3. 2020 is independent in the implementation of these procedures. The government then, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Economy to assist it in public procurement, establishes an interdepartmental working group to receive, review and evaluate bids. This is the group led by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. Then a project group is set up on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, and we are talking about that project group where Terce was also a volunteer. In short, these are the records of the Court of Auditors' report. These are the facts. These facts point only to the purposeful creation of chaos and nothing else. This is said to be the responsibility of the government of Marjana Sharca on 11 March, since it worked until the last day, to have them led by the Ministry of Health, which, according to the Court of Auditors' assessment, was the appropriate purchasing body, transferred by the Government to the Institute and then attached to it various interdepartmental working groups, project groups, various individuals who, in such and other ways, sent offers, pressured, called; in short, many things happened. Chaos! And this chaos was created by politics, specifically by the Minister for the Economy of Restoration and, of course, by all those who participated. So also Minister Tonin and, of course, President of the Government as that top of all that has come up. And in this mud water, they fished on their own, and each one did what he did, and there was no telling who was leading or who was drinking and paying. These were not coincidences; this was the course of purpose of the government of John Janša when it came to power and when it took matters into its own hands. She did it right after the appointment. This chaos was meant for something. Let's move on. At the ventilators. Again, I quote from the Court of Auditors' report only the facts: “The Ministry of Health is 3 February 2020” – that is, under the government of Marjana Sarca – “calling hospitals to provide information on the number of different cases, including the number of artificial ventilation appliances”. By the end of February 2020, 13 of 26 hospitals – the government of Marjan Šarca – had done so. And the data was 224 fans. On page 82, you have a table that tells you it's 12. 3. There were 270 fans in the hospitals. On April 24 or 23, we listen to Tarča, where Minister Restorationšek repeats: “We saved lives, we were on no fans.” Of course, Mrs Jelka Godec also said that we were no fans. Liar! Nothing but a conscious and clear lie. Because this information was known when the government of John Janša took over matters and created chaos. So we're talking about two things. The first is that this government constantly normalizes lies in all areas in our society and they do not care about doing so. And after one year, I don’t know how many times we’ve shown how knowingly it was lying — not to the opposition — to the people! – that certain transactions could be carried out for certain chosen ones, on the other hand, you normalize chaos. This chaos has not only been normalized at the time of this government's appearance by the establishment of all these working groups, that it is not yet known who has done something, but that chaos is the mode of the day-to-day operation of this government. This chaos you create has consequences – chaos in vaccination. And when someone doesn't order a vaccine, he doesn't admit it, but he's messing around with these and other lies and he's looking for external culprits. At the end of the day, the non-commitment of the vaccine is the fault of the information officer. The lies of Zdravek Restoralska and Jelka Godec in Tarča are the fault of, I don't know, Gale's employee. Every single thing in this government is someone else's fault. But, you know, the truth and the facts based on numbers, not on some flat-rate references from the Kopriva parallel world, the Mafia yogurt and its leader, this truth is floating around you, not around the SDS, and Janez Janša, around the Members who you support because of this government's own opportunism, this truth floats like water oil. You can get rid of her, but this truth and these facts are always there. It would be high time for you to overlook them and read the material and if you read the Court of Auditors report, stop sitting in the parallel world of some deep state, and I don't know what else, but that an independent institution that we set up because we decided that we would have a democracy and an independent institution, do our job and set up a mirror for a politician who did everything wrong in these acquisitions, deliberately created chaos, started to hide it with lies, and today insists on this without a hint of bad news, let alone anyone taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič, and the Prince of Sonibo is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today we can discuss in a long and broad manner the Court of Auditors report and the acquisition of equipment. But this government had no peace for a day or an hour. On the evening of 13 March last year, when she swore, a crisis meeting was convened immediately and immediately the following day, which was Saturday, 14 March, this new government authorised the Department of Freight Reserves and, of course, which was responsible for the central acquisition of protective equipment under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Minister of Restivalska. Some, too, have been contradictory to themselves today. He repeatedly said that it was his fault that earlier there was no such equipment in these warehouses, the Department of Stocks, and he finally admitted that it was not the Department of Stocks that had previously been in charge of the purchase of medical and protective equipment, but that they did so to health institutions themselves. So the Department of Commerce, which falls under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy, purchased this protective equipment from 14 March last year until June, when the epidemic was completed. The following day, on Sunday, 15 March, Cankarjev's home in Ljubljana was filled with hospital representatives, namely health institutions, doctors who asked for protective equipment. I don't know if you have any others, I've done some digging myself, and I've got some messages from the hospital directors who were then reporting that they had nothing, almost nothing to do with protective equipment – what are we going to do, how are we going to protect them? I know that even at our hospital in Ormož they were alone at the time, the laundromats were reorganized, they were sewing masks themselves. Then the director looked around for equipment, both masks and coats, so they had good enough certificates. Therefore, it was necessary to provide at least that basic protective equipment, whether it had a certificate or not, because it was a rescue. And it is true that, as has been said, life has been saved mainly by doctors, yes, but in this fight we cannot send them without all the equipment, so we cannot expose them to themselves then to infect themselves, there are still a few of them. So the Court of Auditors' conclusion is that we could be more efficient and transparent – I agree. We would certainly be in a normal situation, but last March, in April, there was actually a war situation. In order to order protective equipment then not only in Slovenia, but throughout the world there were extraordinary conditions, all logistics connections were interrupted, in fact it was a complete breakdown of the market for protective equipment. And you can ask if you haven't already, those who have been supplying, how much money suppliers have spent just to protect these equipment, to come from factories in China, to send it to Slovenia at all, and that it has arrived here. Not only were trucks or protective equipment lost in Slovenia, but also many other countries ordered and did not receive those equipment. At the time, it was not that important a price, but mainly in the first place, it was valid and was the most important delivery period and even the ability to supply. What could be obtained as soon as possible and at least in line with some basic standards, everything was ordered. I still claim, as I said at the time, that when it comes to life, time is more important than money. Today we can speak differently, but I am still convinced that when it comes to war situations, when it comes to emergency situations, each of us will give the last of us the money to keep himself alive. Today, as we have heard, an investigator also took place in the middle, and one of the witnesses caught me briefly, which she said herself, when we bought these masks of surgery more by the euro, today after 9 cents or some less. Thus, there is no comparison, there is no comparison between last year's prices, prices at the time, and current prices; hence prices in exceptional circumstances and prices in normal circumstances. Nothing helps me buy cheap equipment if it comes too late and you have nothing to do with it. And there's something else I'd like to say about the fans. These Sirius R30s, so-called golfs, as we all now call them, were the only ones available at the time. Of course, some were rated better, but these were the only ones available. I have written evidence, so the truth and facts were previously made, written evidence and responses from hospitals to use these fans, use them all the time, and that there was no need for any upgrade, an additional upgrade, but it is true that some others, other brands, the Belavista, cannot use them or the upgrade costs 10,000 euros or more. This is about big deceptions in the media and elsewhere. But find written evidence and you will see when hospitals may not be good for UKC or any better hospital, for a hospital in the northeastern part of Slovenia are obviously good and had no complications. [[…]] This is also one of the questions whether there was a complication or a fatal accident in this case. And it's not. So the written response of the hospital was that there were no such complications. Given the time, I can't really say anything else, but I can just say [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Time's up. Sonibo the Prince has a word to prepare the Jurassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm really going to try to be brief, because I've been following this topic in a lot of detail since the beginning, so I could talk for a while. Mainly, what I want to say is that when I read the Court of Auditors' report, I see the whole story of the procurement process staring me in the eye. What was this procurement process, or should I do with what I have been listening to all day around empty warehouses, to remind you of what was the theme or one sentence a year ago in the National Assembly: What do the governments of Marjan Šarc and the government of John Janša have in common? This is Mr Restoršek, who was Minister in this government, in the previous government. So let's finish what happened, what didn't happen. I admired Mr Restoring as an economist, and I must say that I was extremely surprised that the medical equipment project had gone on in such an amateur way, I cannot say otherwise. He's probably wondering why it was like that. Probably because he wasn't self-deciding that coalition partners had soon come to know the area that he was opening, that is to say, obtaining protective equipment, that there were multimillion-dollar businesses in the back, in which others would like to participate. Because I can't imagine you shutting down or banning the acquisition of protective equipment to all health - care services across the clinical center that had problems at the time, but that was still being procured, the equipment was still provided to prevent them by decree, and at the same time you don't have it back there as an experienced economist — that's what I'm surprised — a team that will do the job. It's really hard to understand, and that's what's been going on. Let me just remind you how the stories went on. Several indictees also confirm that multimillion-dollar transactions were interesting for other coalition partners. The facts say, I don't know that the government has established 24. 3. one intervention group around Morse, one day later, 25. 3. the MGRT was in the project group to include people who had neither formal powers nor formal powers from the public procurement struggle in the health care of Mrs Jelka Godec, who worked – I don't know if it's the right word, but they came from the supply reserves where she lived over the employees; in short, she did business for which she didn't even have enough authority at the final stage. Today, we have heard that, of course, all that has been done apologizes for some extraordinary circumstances, we are warned by the coalition that this was the time when equipment was stolen around the world. Yeah, it was really a difficult time when we were all looking for this, but we were even more innovative. Even the Minister of Defence, as his colleague earlier said - I think Mr Reberšek - that the situation in the protection equipment market has changed from minute to minute. This is also what their president, or current Minister of Defence, has demonstrated in practice. He was in contact with a driver who was driving a million-and-a-half masks, finally at another gas station in Slovenia, and within an hour they found that they had stolen not only a million-and-a-half masks, but that there was no driver and no truck. And that's what the Secretary of Defense is looking at, and he's supposed to have some security-intelligence services in the back. And we were, in our own words, fucked up as such elasticity. But I also understand a colleague who said earlier that it was a difficult meeting with doctors who requested protective equipment. You stop them from getting it, but at the same time, you don't have a team to provide it. More or less, this story was in the public eye, because the ministers, both Tonin and Restoring, had in fact come to their senses, as Rajh said last time, in the role of purchasing referees. Let's just remember how much they loved taking pictures at the trucks they brought in on the planes. What is typical of this time, however, is that we were one of the few countries that did not go directly into the purchase of this protective equipment. Let me remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that he offered his assistance to the SAZU, which, through his housing organisations in China, had a direct offer that there were quite a few of these offers, I think Sandi Češko also offered to Mr Čeferin. [[…]] Thank God that their offers were not accepted, but Joc Pecčečnik, who still has problems with the equipment he purchased today, has not yet received payment. In short, the type of irregularity, chaos, in short, a typical example of how procedures or projects should not be carried out. I think that we will have to slowly, as far as political work is concerned, except of course not again in a unique one that we have invented or invented by this ruling coalition, that we have two investigative committees dealing with this – because one is a government that is investigating itself and one that was created by the opposition – that, apart from them, which will also be dealing with this political issue, I think we will slowly conclude this story in this House. And what is clear from the Court of Auditors' findings is that at least the 13 cases they have pointed out will now be dealt with by the relevant authorities, the law enforcement authorities, and I wish them much success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Get Jani Möderndorfer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u106	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear guests, honourable Members, and all those who have been following us for several hours have been most warmly greeted! Today, as we can see, we are, in fact, talking about the same or at least very, very similar things as we have been talking about since the day of our National Assembly was the interpretation against Minister Počvalska. And it's okay, we'll repeat certain facts today, point them out. But surely there is also a matter that is new at this time and that can also be statistically more detailed and accurately illustrated. I have decided that in my debate, which will in principle be relatively short, I will highlight those key things that have actually been exposed several times today. And in the introduction, I want to start with a quote that's actually very short, but it says a lot. At the beginning of today's session, the proposer said this, quote, “because the government was saving lives”. This is what the proposer of the List of Marjan Šarc said. And yes, dearly respected and respected, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia saved lives, lives of people and that after you threw the rifle into the corn and fled after leaving empty warehouses. As we can see, today, when we say that fact, it hurts so much more. And this was done by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša, while you then criticized and collapsed in the opposition and apparently, at least so we can conclude from what we have seen in recent months, made a very clear, conscious decision, instead of being constructive, that you will be destructive, and rather use the epidemic to collect, for my ideas are cheap, but political points. And I am sure that citizens and citizens see it and know it. Because you have violated the measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, opposed, ignored the recommendations of the National Institute for Public Health, and today, like several times, you are wise as to what is right and what is wrong. But it is still time for you to become a statesman, it is still time for us to step together, that you, who are declaring so-called, as we have heard today, the democratic opposition, but I have already explained the last time what this obviously means, that you, in the left opposition, also approach the common fight against the covid-19 epidemic, because we win together or lose together. And it's still time for you to do it, and the question is, can you do it? Can you do that? I will continue to touch on just a few words of controversy, which is not only open today, but also on some committees, the working bodies of this national assembly. It is said that the role of the President of the Court of Auditors, not least under his tactics, has been written a report that we are considering today. I won't judge or go into detail. However, it is important to mention that it is a person who has publicly lied, who has been misled publicly and who has been clearly put on a lie by means of documents. Of course, it is also not negligible that it is a person who has performed and is still in the position of making millions of euros in a few years or, as we can see from the FIFE's 2019 annual report, that he received 246,000 dollars for that year, which is slightly more than 200,000 euros in one year. At the same time, he shall act as President of the Court of Auditors. Many of us, or most of us, as well as many of those who accompany us, have already had a KPK experience. I believe it is relatively very positive, but it is necessary and it is right to register any additional activity, in accordance with the law, of course, but obviously you have some when it comes to yours when it comes to first-class, different vats. And that is what this report and this particular situation and this concrete context, in which this Court of Auditors report should also be made clear. The left opposition obviously has different vats. Some are allowed and/or forgiven. In short, as I said, things need to be put in context. The acquisition of protective equipment took place at the time of the emergency situation on the market. We can name them war states, we can name them emergency situations, I can also use a third or fourth word relationship. In short, it was a condition that was not normal, it was a condition to survive or not to survive, get protective equipment or not to obtain it, get protective equipment in time or too late. Respected and respected, it has been and is still a matter of human life. If there have been irregularities, if someone has taken advantage of themselves, let them investigate and respond appropriately to the competent institutions and, of course, those who have done so, should, of course, be responsible. As in many other cases, unfortunately the Slovenian judiciary has denied that I am not talking about money laundering in the NLB and what else could be said. But that's not really the topic of today's speech, so just to mention. The fact is, at least I personally do not want to see in Slovenia what the collapse of the health system means. Thank God we weren't talking. Compared to the first wave, health capacity has increased ten times in the second wave. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has faced a crisis, an epidemic, and has faced the coronavirus with determination. Much has been done, and I am sure that the results would be even better if, in the left opposition – as you say, democratic opposition – were not to be demolished, but to be constructive. At this point, I will once again thank all health workers, Civil Protection, the police, the military and all the others who are mainly in the first line of battle, and still do so, fight the epidemic, the virus and all the other consequences that follow one way or another. And what is crucial is that this government has responded appropriately. She was helping people, helping the economy. A multibillion-dollar intervention that has reached its goal. A lot of pressure has come, but a lot of pressure has been prevented, and a lot of it would have been much deeper. Surely there is a time ahead, one that is very important that we can come out of this crisis as winners and that this crisis will be something where we have learned much, but of course there will always be a bitter taste of many deaths not only in our country, but everywhere in the world. For every life, of course, is precious. The fact that this government has been decisively and successfully confronted with the Coronavirus epidemic, including the adoption of anti-Korona packages, shows, of course, empirical data. Over the coming months, there will be more than enough time to analyse, but at this point only credit ratings, then unemployment rates, if compared with other countries in Europe and the European Union, as well as the forecast of economic growth in gross domestic product. And, with respect and respect, it is also visible today that while some speak and break again, the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to work and help people and face this difficult battle against the Coronavirus. In closing my debate, let me repeat my sincere call to all of you: Let us endure! Because we're definitely ahead of us for the final months of dealing with the Coronavirus epidemic. After a good year of dealing with the epidemic, I'm sure each of us may have had some concerns. Of course, we all want relaxation of measures and more. But I am sure that we will be able to make so much wisdom and that we are also willing to make some more sacrifices, that we will nevertheless endure, that the victim will be as few as possible, that the economy will recover as soon as possible, and that we can say that we have done everything in our power in the end over decades, that we have helped to contain this epidemic and not quite the opposite. Therefore, respectable and respected, let us stand together, deal with this virus together, and, of course, let us each contribute our little mosaic to this battle, which will certainly be recorded in history. We can do it together!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the representative of the proposer, Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I thought at least the younger generation would be able to go beyond this constant left, right, up, down, middle, I don't know what. Come on, that's enough! Folk does have a suitcase full of it. Something's right. The other one's wrong. And what you're doing is wrong. And you're very predictable. Again! What I pointed out at the beginning: a rifle in the corn, empty warehouses. If you listen to the hearings today, I'm talking for the third time, and I'll look three times, ten times, three hundred times until someone hears it. Today at the hearings of an investigative committee run by your client. The first Vojka Flis interrogated, you know who this is – the director of the UKC from Maribor – says that at the beginning of the epidemic was well prepared for the first wave, as far as their equipment is concerned. This is the second largest healthcare facility in Slovenia. And what else did he say? Very interesting! Following the Decree of 24 June, there were significant difficulties in ordering equipment. And what did that decree say? On 24 June, this government of yours, which you so praise, ascended to heaven, banned the acquisition of health care facilities – we will take care of it. Twenty-four. 6. There have been major difficulties in purchasing equipment. Let's move on. Anica Hribar, Brežica General Hospital; otherwise, it became a covid hospital only in the second wave, but says, “We lacked FFP2 masks and FFP3 masks that are missing today.” You didn't take care of them. And when did the protective equipment problems arise? In the second half of March. In the second half of March! On 27 February, however, the previous government released reserves from the stocks. Let's keep going. Radiovoj Nardin, director of two hospitals, General Hospital Izola and General Hospital Nova Gorica: »The State contacted us and provided equipment. They contacted us before the epidemic was declared, and they provided help.” Miran Rems, General Hospital in Jesenice: “For specifics”, because they have a large majority of the surgical program, “we had enough protective equipment.” You know what, you draw all this wisdom and all this data from this document, which is proven to be false, even if you compare it with the Court of Auditors' report on empirical findings, not to the conclusion of transparency and efficiency. But what was the situation on some cut-off date before the epidemic, after the epidemic, and after the epidemic? I wouldn't brag like that if I were you, you know. Empirical data can be politically manipulated and accounted for a little bit harder. Health care has increased by ten times the capacity. Yeah, anything at all? At the expense of the other programs! It was reduced elsewhere to increase what was most acute that moment. But it was acute because of the late response of this government, not the previous one. The former has reacted in good time and in good time. Health care has increased at the expense of sickness and at the expense of — but literally here — friendly companies. But you've made it possible for a lot of things to happen to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u109	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, replica mags. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Look, when I was talking about empty warehouses, which bothers Mr. Proposer so much. This is a fact; a fact that is the basis of everything. If that were not the case, if you, as the previous government, had done your job properly and ensured human security, all that we are talking about today would never have happened. So when you talk about responsibility, first exercise responsibility with yourself, because you are responsible for empty warehouses, you are responsible that it was then bought in chaos, as you yourself said, and in every way possible when people just wanted to help. If anything was wrong, let it be investigated, but the fact is, you caused this chaos and it's your responsibility, no one else. Yours, ladies and gentlemen! Moreover, all the time to this day you have been making a fool of the government's actions and you have encouraged protests and inspired them and you are therefore responsible for many of the infections and for many of the deaths that followed. You are responsible for this by your conduct, by your irresponsibility, by your voice of authority, because you are not interested in the safety of people, not in health. All you care about is power and money.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The replica has a Yure Ferryan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u112	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. It's a very short replica. Ten times the capacity in health care, including with new capacities – the Slovenian health system works. What would happen if the health system collapsed? And the health system would obviously collapse if we reacted the way you did. We saw you leave empty warehouses. Look, you can say ten times today that the warehouses were full, but that won't fill empty warehouses one year ago. It's still the fact that they were empty, no matter whether you repeat it ten times today. But maybe I can agree with you that you did the right thing in time. I can agree that it was right, however, that you resigned, that the government was taken over by a better and more capable team, and the question is, if in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u114	Thank you very much for this wisdom and this operation with various facts. You know, if you say things a hundred times, it doesn't have to happen, Mr Grims. For you there is neither a fact nor a global warming nor a fact for you that the previous government has given you a functioning health system, a budget surplus and even a single minister who has screwed up with you. Now, if he's with us, I don't know, but he's really messed up with you. And that the health system works is not the responsibility of this government, not of the previous government, not of the previous government, but of the system. But he's been neglected for decades, and we all agree. But with such interventions, as you say today, you've increased the system's capacity ten times. Yes, in one year you were able to train 300 doctors, train, I don't know, a thousand new nurses. Yeah, well, congratulations. Please don't embarrass yourself with those.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Replica, Jure Ferrjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I'm talking about capacity, not frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today we've heard again some new things that I'm going to have to, I'm sorry, disappoint you. The health system has not retreated mainly because it has failed to privatize some in the past. That's what everyone who knows about the health system finds out. As a comparison, look at the Italian system they have. Of course, there was simply no response to the epidemic because there were basically whole systems; they were not connected; they had not the same system; clinics were privatised, segregated, specialized, narrowly specialized only to certain activities; and, of course, there was a much higher tax in the first wave. Of course, all of this does not change what the Court of Auditors has found. If I'm not mistaken, in May, we had a discussion about these amazing fans after the Tarč show, where you want or don't want to, someone said that instead of the Mercedes, they were buying golf to save lives. I am sorry that the minister who said so is not today. I regret that, otherwise, a boring meeting for the Secretary of State must be heard, especially because the Court of Auditors is primarily talking about those who are supposed to learn from this. Of course, they only saw three things. If it says they're guilty if it says they were involved in dirty business — sorry, that's not the purpose of the Court of Auditors. I hope you know that this is someone else in the country who will discover these things, especially the police, but as far as corruption is concerned, of course, the KPK. But look at the fragment. We are now faced with one great dilemma, or the Court of Auditors after this vomiting of fire on that side to even trust. I personally trust the Court of Auditors, I don't have any issues with this. However, I recall vomiting on the other hand in the previous term, when colleagues Grims and similar, the loudest was, as far as this is concerned, Mr Tanko, when they were shouting in all their voices that the PKK should be abolished and all the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors to be trusted. To the Court of Auditors! At that time, they magnified this same President of the Court of Auditors that he was actually the one who could take over all these tasks. Look at the fraction, it hasn't been two years, and now all of a sudden this Court of Auditors is a fichfirič, and it's not worth anything, and the KPK is the most successful. But I'm afraid once the KPK comes along with the results, the KPK will also be on the tray. Just like always! The one who doesn't talk and doesn't slam antlers with esdees has serious problems. Of course, with immediate charges; first, their trolls appear clerical, then their media appear on various incredible televisions, so that I do not use any other language, and then, of course, at the end of the day, because it is no different than a request for an emergency session where we will consider that someone is guilty. Something like that awaits us now that we have to deal with the Constitutional Judges at the same request of this coalition. Because they're guilty again and again those who don't know how to make decisions as they should. I'm sorry, but thank God people aren't crazy anymore, and they're not stupid anymore. Every day I listen to people, not a little bit, hugely, you can't turn them around with these flossules and these things. I'm afraid not. For you regret, of course, for us above all, thank God that people understand and know what is right and what is wrong. And they're not stupid people, and they can separate weeds from grain. Now, there's only one thing that matters to me. Today I heard the incredible news from our colleague, the first day the government came along, she didn't have one day of peace. This sentence is incredible. The government is not to have peace, the government is therefore primarily to work. The opposition is to control it. And whoever didn't understand it after all this time, yes, and then forgive me, it's time to go somewhere else, where you'll have love of peace, it's called, and you can live in this peace peacefully. But unfortunately, it's about people. These people, as always, will take care of themselves in the end, you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Andrej Chernigoj has the word to prepare Lidija Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues! Today in this prized hall we are considering the Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the findings of the audit report The effectiveness of purchasing protective and medical equipment for the control of the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus. When I listened to the discussions of colleagues and colleagues before me, I found that the debate was only to a lesser extent substantively consistent with the Court of Auditors' audit report – not knowing the subject or lack of the right arguments. Citizens and citizens, judge for yourselves. Here I hold the audit report before me, and I have the feeling that the opposition in this debate, I apologize, is merely mixing the fog and the string of twisted arguments from the vine and the insinuated insinuation without evidence, only because this esteemed assembly is a place where the spoken word, although it is not the truth, is not prosecuted. Nevertheless, people called me today and reminded me, for example, of a former Member named Ivo Hvalica. Slovenia, Europe and the world, all of us have been forced to face a number of challenges in the past year, which have fundamentally changed our actions, opinions and even our perception of life. I could also discuss how, after a naive retreat in the most difficult times of this decade, citizens and citizens are at risk of political calculus and at the same time call for elections. I could also talk about the fact that warehouses with the security equipment of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia were almost empty at the time of the change of government and that the stock was not sufficient for a single day. Not for a day! But I won't, because I'm gonna try to stick to today's extraordinary session. Today's debate, hand in hand, began at the 31st urgent meeting of the Economic Committee, where we discussed the Court's audit report for the first time on the Committee. At that time there were few of us in this hall fighting for the opposition so important topics because they see many crimes, barbaric after them, although no one drove with lights, ended up after, you will not believe, after two hours 42 minutes and 11 seconds. Not a single session of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, led by my colleague Natasa Sukič, has there been such a short one. So much for all these substantial arguments and the debate on the Court of Auditors' report, which is supposed to reveal everything and more, but look at the fraction, this is not in the report. A very famous Slovenian proverb could be used in the report: A mountain was shaken, a mouse was born. I see today's meeting as an excellent opportunity for the coalition, so that the general public can once again be aware that the effectiveness of the purchase of protected medical equipment to control the spread of an invisible enemy has been satisfactory and appropriate in view of the circumstances and emergencies in which we have been. On the other hand, a kilowatt attempt by the opposition to revive a dead story with vague insinuations, which the media themselves and independent Slovenian journalists buried on the same day as the audit report saw the light of the world. I apologize here, the media buried it before the report was officially published. Just for repair. However, we can draw a very important fact from the communication, the report does not identify any abuse, the report does not mention any official, a public official who would benefit from it. The opposition's proposal for today's debate shows a great deal of indifference to the facts or desire for reinstated authority which has been foolishly released. Anyone who knows the functioning and structure of state institutions knows that today's debate would be much more fruitful if it were held 90 days after 17 March 2021. Why 90 days? On 17 March, the Court of Auditors issued an audit report, and the Government can submit a response report within 90 days, i.e. 15 June is the last deadline. In the end, the Court of Auditors may reply to this government response report. And then today's debate would be comprehensive and we could discuss both sides of the same coin. Will you, dear colleagues and dear colleagues from the opposition, then revive the story that the media had already buried at the beginning of the publication of the Court of Auditors' report? The answer is probably yes. Personally, I believe that there may have been some mistakes in the purchase, the times were really difficult, the equipment was gone, and it could be said that the Wild West ruled the purchase of the equipment. Therefore, it is also understandable what a critical word on the part of the Court of Auditors. The report, which has 251 pages, has only two pages and a half of the recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this has attracted me most in the entire report. My humble opinion is that it is imperative to prepare all the large state apparatus to respond better, faster and more agilely in such unique and critical events in the future. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the authenticity of the certificates. Colleagues and colleagues, in particular European Members and Members of Parliament, I would like to point out and point out that there have been problems with certificates in all Member States, even with the European Commission. All together in this Chamber, you still remember that Slovenia also had to return the European Commission's masks, which later turned out not to meet the European Union's high standards. Have our representatives and representatives in the European Parliament, those who are now in opposition, convened extraordinary European Parliament meetings to address this issue? I am not personally aware of this initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Ivanus [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Proposer. Excuse me. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Sometimes it is better to keep your opinions to yourself, but some degree of self-criticism is, it seems, too much to be expected in this esteemed National Assembly. I've only read three specific cases to you on the committee, and I'm going to read them again because probably people weren't looking at the board. Three concrete examples of how these correct, effective, transparent and above all oh took place and even procure protective equipment. This is what the Court of Auditors writes, as well as the response or response of the Government will not be able to correct, because these are the facts: The offerer sent an offer for protection masks to the Institute on 14 March. On 16 March, the Institute received an e-mail from a natural person – in remarks, this is the President of one of the non-parliamentary parties, and I will not be advertising him – who referred to the communication. The message says so — this message to which she referred: “As instructed by P. V.J. J. I'm sending you contact to the immediate reach of more than two million. mask in Turkey.” Well, the person who sent this referred to P. V.J. J., from which it appears that, as instructed by the President of the Government, it is intended to provide information that masks are available immediately. On the basis of the above, the Director of the Institute is supposed to be 17. 3rd phone caller. However, the documentation shows that one of the staff members of the Institute was threatened by a natural person who lost his job because of this call. On 18 March, the Institute signed a contract with the tenderer to supply one million triple protection masks at 49 cents per piece. Half a million euros on the basis of a recommendation from the President of the Government and the threat of losing his job! The second case, on 17 March, the tenderer sent an offer for the supply of protective masks to the staff of the Office. On the 19th. 3. the tenderer highlighted the problem of transporting the equipment offered to Slovenia. Member of the National Assembly – Member of the National Assembly! – in the transport problem mentioned above, she introduced the Minister of Defence, your Minister for Economic Development and Technology and the President of the Government. The Minister of Economic Development and Technology sent a message to the former Secretary of State at MGRT – now he has a good job – to the staff of MGRT, to the Director of the Office and the Office, stressing the urgency and priority of the hearing. Notwithstanding the above, the Office has not concluded a contract with the tenderer. At least that. On 19 March, a third case, a domestic tenderer sent an e-mail to MGRT informing the manufacturer of protective masks. MGRT forwarded this e-mail to the Institute. The institution of the received e-mail has not considered since domestic production is to be regulated by MGRT. In 10 days, 30 March, an MGRT staff member forwarded an e-mail to the Institute stating that “with regard to urgent needs, the agreed daily supply of 50,000 masks and the price of 0.76 euros per mask, taking into account the 5% discount on the ordered quantity plus VAT. The first day of delivery is Wednesday, April 1st and the contract is signed for daily deliveries by April 17th. It follows from the e-mail that the first delivery of the goods should be made within two days. The Office thus concluded a contract with the domestic tenderer on 30 March and obtained agreement to the contract from the MGRT on the day following the signature of the contract and the day before the first delivery of the goods, which is 31 March. The acceleration or priority treatment of this tenderer is further based on the conclusion that the tenders under the Interdepartmental Working Group have not yet been concluded on the date of conclusion of the contract. Why? Owl, which was in charge of providing security assessments under the Interdepartmental Working Group's protocol, has not yet issued this assessment on the date of conclusion of the contract. The Sova informed the Interdepartmental Working Group of the security reservation following the conclusion of the contract when it had made the security assessment. But the contract was still valid. So the only person who acted as responsible in this process is the Interdepartmental Working Group. But someone's been using this system for a lot of things. And one more thing, buddy. You voted against this committee and not to abstain against it; against this recommendation: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that it do not use exceptional circumstances to establish non-transparent procurement systems that allow for corruption risks and financial or any other exploitation of individuals and/or legal persons.” You were against it. And today, please don't moralize with the length of the debate. Even if you had only two minutes to talk about it, you were against the State not taking advantage of circumstances for corruption risks or any other exploitation. You were personally against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanus has the word to prepare himself as debater Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u124	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have heard all possible accusations against the Slovenian government, from corruption to lies to accusations of redistribution of public finances and so on. Here you can see your duality as you try to deceive the public and your mistakes to frame the current government, which is doing its work responsibly and for the benefit of all. However, we can recall that with your irresponsible work when you were in power, you caused great damage to the state and burdened the current government with matters that you should solve or solve when you were in power. Problem of empty warehouses, problem at home for the elderly, problem of health institutions, problem of lack of medical equipment and could still be listed. All these industries have been in your jurisdiction for decades, and today you are standing up to the government of John Janša, and in this one year of rule you accuse her of everything that should have been regulated long ago. People with such financial perspectives as we had should not be hungry, and pensioners should live a decent life. We've heard accusations against all government members, secretaries and so on. You do not think that if our country were legal, some of your Members would often be sitting on a sad bench, and someone else is not sitting. And whenever the government of the right-centred politicians is in power, the opposition charges, undermines, lies and condemns without any argument. In view of what has happened in the past, since the money laundering, overpayment of veneers and other corrupt acts that I will not list today, one would say and almost insist that your rule is to condemn another for the acts that you are doing yourself, which are harmful and unacceptable to the functioning of our society. Today we are considering the recommendation of LMŠ, SD, SAB and Levice, in which they condemn the functioning of the current government at the time of covid-19 crisis. After doing so, we would say that work is under difficult working conditions. As a basis for all these false accusations, you use the Court of Auditors report on the acquisition of protective and medical equipment to control the dissemination of covid-19, which in no way, but in no way condemns the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at this time. Otherwise, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia does not have these powers. The leftist parties who convened this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly today, however, are constantly condemning, lying, and speaking falsehoods, which do not come out of the Court of Auditors' report. I therefore estimate that all this pressure in these times of crisis on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is exclusively intended, regardless of the victims, for the political struggle for the power and privileges of all the parties mentioned above. I must admit, your accusations, your humiliations, your quantifications and threats are going very well out of your mouth. The words of the LMŠ Member on the shameless, boundless, hidden, hidden and not know what else, profitable access and damage to the state. Please, this government has done more for people than you do in one year in critical situations, under difficult working conditions at home, and you will always be, because your pockets are too deep and your personal interests are too high. The fact is, the former Prime Minister, Marjan Sarec, threw a rifle into the corn and left empty warehouses. And what must a responsible person do when he takes over the chaos you left behind last March? Yeah, normally, by the way, they went to work, and that's what you're accusing them of. Work, work, sleepless nights and looking for a solution to the acquisition of protective medical equipment. They've been running medical supplies, supplies of respirators, providing enough beds for the sick and everything else you didn't do when you were in power, and now you're looking for hair in the egg. People mean nothing to you, given the protests and the provocation of this disease. All you're interested in is a privileged left-wing group that lives for power and money. That is why, instead of solving the problems of citizens and citizens, their health and financial situation, we sat in the National Assembly for Metelkova, Rog, migrants and interpreted the good work of the ministers of this government and listened to Kordiš about the inability and accusations of this government. I personally support this government, and I also believe in it because of all the well-meaning messages of our citizens, as far as the consequences of covida are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The list received quite a few changes, so it is Mr Joseph Horvat's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! When our government held its first meeting on March 13, last year, it held a night meeting in protective masks. At that time, many ridiculed what the Court of Auditors is likely to be mocking — especially the left part of the opposition — even my continued thanks to the Court of Auditors for the good audit report made by the Court of Auditors, of course in accordance with its powers, in accordance with the law and also, in particular, with the wish of the Government or coalition to revise the whole process of obtaining protective equipment to control the spread of the sars-Cov-2 virus. It's interesting that we're talking a few hours today about everything else, just not the recommendations. It's about everything else, but not about the agenda, and that's exactly what I'm going to focus on. The obvious reasons why we have not accepted have been confirmed on the parent’s working body by some recommendations. We don't have enough time to analyze everything, so maybe I'll just be the first three. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes or recommends that the Government take immediate action in accordance with the recommendations and corrective actions of the Court of Auditors referred to in the audit report and report on the activities to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We in New Slovenia believe that the recommendation is unnecessary. The Court of Auditors has already set a time limit for the submission of a response report to individual auditors, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Reserves in point five, within which the auditors will also submit a response report to the Court of Auditors. Logically, then, the first recommendation is not necessary. Second recommendation, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and/or additions to regulations and/or documents providing appropriate grounds for dealing with emergency situations such as epidemics, infectious diseases and others. We believe that the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not necessary as it relates to corrective action number one, which has already been determined by the Court of Auditors by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has to implement the corrective action in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Defence within 90 days of receiving the audit report. Therefore, this recommendation, as proposed by the applicants, is irrelevant. Maybe there's a third. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia reports to the Government that it does not use exceptional circumstances to establish non-transparent procurement systems that allow corruption risks and financial or other exploitation of individuals and/or legal persons. From the point of view of New Slovenia, the recommendation is unnecessary. Both Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and the national law on public procurement also lay down the methods of procurement procedures and the conduct of contracting authorities in cases of purchase in exceptional circumstances and so on and so on. Now there's one more thing. The Court of Auditors, colleagues and colleagues praised the conduct of the Ministry of Defence and the Interdepartmental Working Group in several places in the report. On page 135, the Court of Auditors notes that the preparation of the Interdepartmental Working Group Protocol points to the proactive behaviour of Mors, which has been charged with managing and organising the IMF and so on and so on. Thus, dear colleagues, I believe and appreciate the opposition's efforts, in this case the left opposition must carry out its supervisory function. But I would expect a little more from a cultural vocabulary, not that this national assembly or those who propose to be a judge, because we have heard in the introduction, it is your fault, it is your fault, and so on. Such a vocabulary must be eliminated from our deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which you will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation. There's no government representative. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Robert Pavsovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, there will be a repeat of the story from the committee, where the struggle was expressed in small quantities by the coalition Members, who are supposed to defend the current minister or current representative of the government. That is also why, my fellow Member, the debate on the committee which rejected these recommendations was brief, mainly because of the silence of the coalition members and the silence of the representatives of the Government. And it is very interesting to hear how the recommendations are unnecessary and how this country respects directives, laws or other regulations. On the 9th page, colleague Horvat, on page 9 of the report in the introductory part – I will read only one sentence to you, today I have read it three times, and I will say the fourth time: “The procurement procedures have therefore not been carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency and equal treatment of providers of protective and medical equipment, and in some cases procedures have also been carried out in non-compliance with regulations and other acts.” Discompliance with regulations and other acts, perhaps also with directives. And I really can't understand how the government and this coalition can so vehemently reject all these obviouss. These were serious findings and the recommendations we made for the Committee's consideration were not unnecessary. There were some damning needs, but they show obvious answers or attempts to defend them — rare cases, however, are credible. At the end of the day, “this government has done much more in one year”. Yeah, a lot more damage than a few previous governments. I can say this on my own behalf. And the colleague was probably reading a discussion that someone had prepared for the interpolation, but the interpolation was last summer. She even used the same word, “interpellation against the Minister”. We've been through this. Today, the topic of the agenda is the consideration of the Court of Auditors' report. We did not discuss the Minister's interpretation, although it is apparent that the Minister of Economy was the one most exposed to the procurement of protective and medical equipment. This government has worked, procured equipment, respirators, in addition to serial exchanges of directors at the police, Sursa, Fursa, the NPU four times, teaching directors at the Post Office, at Dars, former party officials or good party candidates; those who have just proved themselves. At present, the Constitutional Court is attacking the Court of Auditors, but in all these staff exchanges there has been sufficient time for dispatches, blocking the appointment of European prosecutors, and impeding the STA could also be listed. And in the meantime, there was time for a whole series of tweets, how you're right, and we're wrong. We've been reading from these 250 pages all day, me and my colleagues, and you're telling us to politicize. We've read your quotes, we've read them, so we shouldn't. The first page is enough to tell you how this government dealt with the acquisition of the epidemic. Look at the picture on the front page of the Court of Auditors' report. A photograph of masks that we should or could do ourselves, but no, we know better, said the government. We will pay these masks richly, almost 1 euro per piece for toilet paper and two elastics. Almost 1 euro apiece! And this is really an effective work, transparent, no corruption risk here. Everything was great. It was all so well done that a whole bunch of people worked for months, fought mills at the Ministry of Economy, which was not very cooperative, if I say so. The cabinet of the Prime Minister even kept some information hidden because it doesn't matter who sent something to anyone, but only what he sent, even though all the data is necessary to deal with a case. This is today compared to this; this is where it began. And I have never heard anyone on the government side say let us at least correct this report a little bit so that the National Assembly will not be in shame because it even had to vote on it. You're talking about the report, if I use your vocabulary, with some coastal bureaucratic approach, you've achieved that the National Assembly had to vote on it. However, we will not vote on the Court of Auditors' recommendations because there is no need for this government to be so good that it does not need those recommendations. I don't know where this world is going, this country, and in the last year, I see where this government has gone. If I say so at home, in the pantry and today we have received confirmation that some of the fingers and some lips are very dirty with marmalade.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u129	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the motions for a recommendation by Robert Pavšč and a representative of the Government, please apply with the pressure to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is under way. There are five candidates registered, each one gets five minutes. First up is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members! Another day to go to nothing in this national council. The topic, as usual, is something to tease and we've been listening to it all day, not rap, not head, only accusations, attacks on the government, on the minister. In short, I also saw a complete lack of interest in the meeting by the motioners, by the opposition, on the left which proposed this meeting. I don't know where they've been following this meeting or anything. Mainly, what interest is there, the seats have been emptied, so that you can see here what the purpose of this meeting was. If I quickly fly over what I listened to all day in this debate while I was here, and draw some conclusions or opinions from myself, I can say that you continued with the work you set up on the first day of the composition of the new government; that is, immediately on the first day of the collapse of the government. This is your goal from day one to this moment. After the gun was thrown into the corn, so when your Prime Minister threw the rifle into the corn, when he was no longer interested in the rule, when you fought with each other in this KUL left opposition, you let people down, you left the health care in a state of despondency. You have left empty warehouses, although you probably realize that you have invested 25 years in health care — nothing. So you didn't do anything for health care, you didn't do anything for nursing homes, so the rooms were inappropriate, so there were so many dead. So it's your fault that people died, that there was no protective equipment, and you're well aware of that. But you haven't discussed this much today. All this time of this government, which has worked hard to save as many people as possible to stop the epidemic, you have created chaos, called for violations of measures, through the media you have created imaginary affairs that mainstream media, especially RTV with your Target, have nicely summarized and prepared imaginary affairs; an affair that was not at all, that is, an affair about buying protective equipment. Then you also directly defended the Court of Auditors, abused him for preparing this report, which does not burden him at all, there are no crimes, nothing wrong with it, and the fact in this report is that you failed to take care of yourself when you had your government and left everything behind after the target of the rifle in the corn. The government and ministers led by the Prime Minister of the Government have done a great job so far, and that hurts you too, so that's why it's such a meeting, so attack, otherwise it wouldn't be. Help people, the economy, this is your Spanish village, so you left the government because you didn't know how to help people and the economy. But your goal is, of course, to take power, although you have already proved by this when you ruled that you are unable to rule and I do not know why you are then trying to get back into power. Who else believes you, I don't know. I listen to people, and I don't hear any debates, so anyone else will believe you. And this is already screwed up and there are too many of these attacks, too many of these extraordinary, urgent meetings, I can tell you that. If you want any more votes in the next election, you'd better calm down a little bit, otherwise I advise you to continue. Now, after everything the Government is doing and doing, the ministry and so on, you have already begun to have a rivalry between the parties on the left, a competition, who will be more radical, while the government is working for the benefit of people and for the benefit of Slovenia. If you don't know how to rule or if you don't know how to help the Government fight the measures, then let Slovenia move forward, or if you don't like being helped, at least you don't have to be bred. So much for me. I wish you at least some healthy farmers of mind and feel for people, Slovenia, health care, people in health who are trying for people, and that you will finally begin to carry out your mission, i.e. work for people. That's what you were for, and we were elected. That's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u132	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! You see, it is perfectly normal when the Court of Auditors issued an audit report that I went to look first, but what is said in this audit report on the Ministry of Defence, which was one of the auditors. Thus, it can be concluded that the Court of Auditors of the Ministry of Defence did not, in the final part of the audit report, make a request for the submission of a response report or recommendations concerning the audit in question to the other auditors. If he were a proposalr, if the applicants were at least a tiny bit objective, they might devote at least a second to this fact. The Court of Auditors on page 138 of its report also notes, quote, that “you are the leader of the Interdepartmental Working Group” – this is the present State Secretary of Mag. Damjan Jaklin – "tried to ensure that procurement procedures were properly carried out and in accordance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment of tenderers, as he organised several meetings with procurement experts with a view to obtaining expert opinions". Page 138, if you haven't found it yet. The Ministry of Defence can only further explain and, of course, we agree and are pleased that the President of the Court of Auditors was present at one of the meetings at that time. It's no secret. This is an example of good practice. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that this is my feeling that our country is working relatively well in a peaceful situation, in a peaceful time. When a disaster occurs, when a pandemic or epidemic occurs, then it throws us off course, and so happened last March. Why? Among other things, we do not have well - prepared plans to do so. One is the National Plan for Protection and Rescue in the Emergence of an Epidemic of Infectious Diseases in People. When we took over the government, the plan existed, but it was useless. We all know, probably Members and Members, we all know who and when it raises or activates this state plan. Yes, because it was raised by the previous minister, but what does that mean if the document wasn't operational, it wasn't to be used. Therefore, this government of ours also had to work to upgrade or upgrade this State Plan for Protection and Rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of communicable diseases in humans, and adopted version 2.0 on 23 July 2020. This work was also coordinated by the Ministry of Defence. So now we're in some way, and I hope it doesn't have to be activated, and I'm sure no one wants it, too much bad experience, too. Now we're kind of ready. We have this document, this is a very extensive document, but when the previous government declared the epidemic, and it declared it right, regardless of the fact that it declared itself one day after the pandemic was declared, because now we have this state plan. Some kind of recipe, how we have to act, how state institutions have to act and so on. I hope and I want to know that there will be a lot of such debates, but that the next will be at a significantly higher cultural level and that the applicants will not turn into judges where they will judge, you are guilty, you are a criminal, you are that and that. As it is said, such a dictionary has no place, has no domestic right in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A nice welcome to all the guests from the Ministry! We are therefore talking about the recommendation made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the findings of the Court of Auditors' audit report on procurement, i.e. on efficiency in the procurement of medical and protective equipment. And with this equipment, that's kind of how it went. The equipment was needed to save the lives of our citizens before an extremely difficult and backward covid-19 disease, so there was an epidemic. The Court of Auditors, of course, revised the work of the Government, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence and also the Department of Freight Reserves during time 1. 1. 2020 and 31. 12. 2020. Here, of course, we must be realistic and say that it was somehow part of the work of the 13th government and part of the work of the current government. The recommendation, or its explanation, somehow overlooks the substance of the audit report, namely that the applicants in this way, I must say, somehow you are also slapping yourself, namely the former government, which was composed by most of the current opposition, i.e. by the proposer. But I do not want to be as shameless as some have been today in their discussions to this government, and somehow I do not want to be directly responsible for the death of fellow citizens, but it is still necessary to stress the objective responsibility for those empty warehouses and also the subjective responsibility that some, even here present, have constantly underestimated this serious disease. Some felt that this was a minor flu, which set a poor example, and some here set a poor example for their fellow citizens. And, of course, by this negative example, we have also caused a deliberate spread of disease in some. Of course, after many deaths, let us now hang all this to this government. That's not how it works. I must also say that they have been listed inside, and today in debates as well as in opinions, some obscene lies. And that, I don't know, Minister Tonin, Minister of Rest, the Prime Minister of the Government, they used to beat their pockets to, I don't know, arrange for their friends to make some fabulous profits and so on. So when I read these pages, if I say so, and these recommendations, I wonder again whether these are the serious purposes of the Members you are investing, or whether they are some kind of hatred for these ministers and for this government. Somehow, if I say so, LMŠ and Levica will, of course, put themselves right on the trenches and everything this government and what these ministers are doing, all of this is wrong, regardless of whether these measures go back to life. In recent times, young lives have also been involved, not just in the case of those who died of this disease at an old age. So once again, I would ask you not to talk with such ease about responsibility for life as this government has, and not to speak with such ease of money spent, about money spent when it comes to saving lives. Because a person who has ever been ill with a serious illness may not speak with such ease for the like of this one. And the one who today may have a narrower family member who is sick of the crown that is on the inn is willing to give all the money because life really is worth more than money. I ask so kindly that you remain healthy and even proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In the beginning, the proposer, at the very beginning of the meeting, used the term to open the session. This meeting has really spoiled; it has exposed the fact that the current opposition, the current opposition, is said to be making a fool out of people, from a fundamental political bonton, from the truth, from responsibility. To make a fool of people, they proved themselves. I would like to remind you that this covers the period when I personally, if you would like, took the initiative of the then government of Charca to introduce a quarantine to take care of the coming pandemic. Today they say they didn't know what was coming. They've been informed, ladies and gentlemen! They knew even better what was coming than I knew then because they had different sources of information. And they were making a fool of each other. Take a look at the magnetogram from the Health Committee, where I was, say, one of the members of the current opposition spoke there, the largest drill that has replaced so many customers that the probably can't even list them. He was being a fool. Unfortunately, you're making a fool of yourself here today, too; you're making fun of the basic political bonton. Quite explicitly, what does that mean for a hundred days of peace? The fundamental political bonton, which is valid in all countries with democracy, is to leave the new government alone for a hundred days. This government has not had a single day of peace on your part. And ye make fools of the truth, for the truth is that ye have caused this state. You caused a situation in which there were no stocks of protective equipment, you caused the state of empty warehouses, you caused the situation when even the last stock Slovenia had, you sent or allowed to export to China for your own promotion. And you took a picture with him. That's the truth. That's why it's also a question of your mockery of responsibility. Responsibilities — and if you want, it is also a fundamental political bonton — cannot be enforced unless you exercise responsibility first by yourself, especially when it comes to human health and human life. Your responsibility was not to take precautions against the coming pandemic. Your responsibility was to leave the Government of the Republic of Slovenia overnight. Your responsibility was that after the new government took over, you helped create destruction and confusion with everything you could. Not only that! You spread riots, spread protests, some even personally, with your presence there supporting and acting as if it were some flu, that it was something insignificant, that reduced the meaning of the pandemic, and thus you are personally responsible for many infections and, unfortunately, also many deaths. And that's your responsibility. Once again, you can talk about responsibility when you first exercise your own responsibility, when you apologize to the public for what you have done, for the legacy you have left behind, and, of course, take responsibility for the consequences. For the consequences of that leap, when you did nothing, for the consequences of your irresponsibility, when you fomented riots and disrespect for measures against the pandemic and when it got angry – you are now the biggest advocates of the government's responsibility. You yourself do not know any other method, such as joyous destruction, a vote for power, which you have left lightly. That's where the victims are. human life, human health, the state of Slovenia. That's what you've done to yourself. You haven't spoiled anyone else. You also exposed that the period during which this happened was a period during which everyone who was then present tried to help out in the best way possible. If anyone has broken the law in this regard, let them answer for it. But the responsibility for such starting points, the responsibility for not taking care of security at the time the pandemic began, the responsibility for spreading disrespect for the measures, the responsibility for all the consequences that followed, is yours. And when you talk about responsibility, take your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u138	As always, this was expected as some garlic on the cake. At the end of the whole day's debate, we get the political correctness that comes to an end. Let's do it in a row. Mr. Doblekar: a day that will go to nothing, and why I was not here today. Because of the chairman of the commission coming from your party who convened the committee during this plenary session or vice versa. I worked on a committee, I listened to the directors of public institutions, who spoke completely against what you're saying right now. And I already said that today. Now I really don't have time to do this again. Mr Horvath: FFP3 masks were used by the government on 13 March and it was not a problem because of masks, some symbolic message, and the other is what is actually obvious, the government used FFP3 masks that are still missing for a symbolic message for 15 minutes of glory. If I took regular surgical masks, no one would get upset. But the masks destroyed by the government at the founding session for the photo deadline are still lacking today. That's not what would be right. And that the dictionary, as we used it today, has no domestic right. What, though, is the claim of the one who was today in these domestic rights that Charec and his associates were illegally looking into his records or even listening to him, and we have not yet experienced it. Epilogue. All beautiful and beautiful and well, but from one mouth it's an earpiece, and from another mouth it's a blasphemy. Responsibility for death. I beg of you, the responsibility for death! Maybe the first wave could tell us that, but the second wave was entirely your responsibility. Four thousand men! So stop messing around! Do you guys even hear each other? From May 31st, when this government called off the epidemic, you had all the time you wanted until October 18th. With empty warehouses there were fewer dead than today with full warehouses than you claim. At least compare it to a comparable one! And you're not doing the right thing, proven. Here we have the Court of Auditors, and that you are not doing the right thing, at least six times in the last year, the Constitutional Court has also found out, and that is why we will usurp this space and this National Assembly so that you will consider, who can speak, what you did and what you did not do. It retained the provision of a decree restricting travel to the Red States, repealing Article 6 of the Anti-Korona Act, which extends the deadline for meeting the conditions for the establishment of a higher education institution. The Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. The Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the articles of labour law and public servants relating to compulsory retirement. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the decisions of the Government and Minister of Education Simone Kustec on long-term education are invalid. The Constitutional Court has repealed the decision to order an investigation into the Kangler case, where it refers to the assessment of the correctness of the specific judgments. Yes only for such perfect decisions that this coalition has confirmed to this government! But whoever is going to say anything against you has already conspired and carried out only some political pressure and political games on you. Well, people really aren't that naive anymore! Of course, I'm in here -- it's going to be three years now, and I feel like I've been in there for 30 years, because in three years, you've already repeated all these things so many times, it's really unacceptable. At least be consistent and find something new, not constantly pounding. People have a suitcase full of this: you left-handed men, you right-handed men. However, I have heard three calls to come together to overcome today’s situation. In this relationship and in the light of the experience I have had in these three years, yes, every day when I listen to you, there are fewer opportunities for any cooperation. Come on, start doing what you preach all the time. Start with yourself. You've been in here for 30 years. I've only been in here three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-69.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 69th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
