ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Andrej Černigoj from 2 p.m., Ferenc Horváth, Janja Sluga, Edvard Paulič, Brane Golubović, Aleksander Reberšek, Nick Prebil from 3 p.m., Jani Möderndorfer from 12 p.m. to 13 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 3 p.m., Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti and Jani Ivanuša. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State at 9th and 17th items of the agenda, mag. Mr Duško Year, Director of the Energy Agency, 22nd agenda item, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simono Kustec, 24th agenda item, Minister of Justice Marjan Dikaucič, 25th agenda item, Prime Minister Janez Jaše, 28th agenda item, and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 5 November 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 27th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 29. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the treatment of the resignation from the function of a member of the National Assembly, who served as a member instead of a member acting as Secretary of State. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that Member Ljubo Žnidar has informed me in writing on 10 November 2021 that he has resigned from the function of Member of the National Assembly. I note that, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the term of office of a Member shall expire on 15 November 2021. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate will act as a Member of Parliament in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Management and Electoral Commission will prepare a report containing a proposal for a decision on the performance of the function of a Member or a Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. On the basis of Articles 33 and 200 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that Ljub Žnidar, who has ceased his post as Vice-President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, has ceased to serve as Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my respected colleague very much for my work so far and to wish him much success in further work. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 16. 11. 2021, at 9 a.m., if the Commission of Mandate is to prepare a report, or on Thursday 18th. 11. 2021. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements of 38 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. I would then like to remind you in particular that such a proposal should be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Helena Jaklitsch, Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, mag. Matthew Tonin, Minister of Defence, and Janez Poklukar, Minister of Health. With regard to the announced absence of Zdravka Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development of Technology, I inform you that I was subsequently informed that the Minister for Economic Development and Technology will be present at the meeting at all times during this point. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be presented to him by Dr Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! When the SDS sat in opposition benches, you stood up as a defender against corruption, like the one you would actually clean up with corruption in this country. You were very loud about how the second track was potentially a corrupt matter, you went with all the cannons over the MP who stole the sandwich, you went against the Swedish leadership of the bad bank, you went against the ministers, Cerar's minister, who paid the extras for the readiness and so on. In short, you've been alerting yourself to these corrupt affairs and posing as those who will clean up once you're in power. In the last year and eight months, in fact, your practice has shown something completely opposite. You understand the conduct primarily through the prism of personal and party-specific interests, which you have recently admitted to yourself when you said that as Prime Minister of the Government you only answer to your electorate. Thank you for this confession, of course we already knew that. What is crucial here is that the people of this country and the people of this country should be more concerned about your behavioral indecency, if we call it that, your corrupt insolence or corruption of this government. For we must remember every day that passes, that your government has been shot with corruption. If we start with your government's tax policy adviser, Mr Rok Sněžić, who you have just squandered in the Age, which your associate was convicted of tax evasion, owes the country more than a million Euros of tax debt. Now, in the Gen-I recruitment affair, it turns out he's still the government's chief staff. This is a man who drives around Slovenia with a masseracy worth 100,000 euros, and officially has nothing or a bank account. In your kind, you tolerate ministers who talk about how judges will be egged. In general, there is also no minister in this government who would not have had an affair on his back or at least violate the laws. We still don't know where the trucks with Tonin's masks were lost, you're still buying fast tests with kryptiramdis who got famous in the affair of your teen "snegec", and so on, the rest of the golf clubs helped deliver just your brother. After all this you are trying to privatize public health, attack public education and plan new and new tax gifts for those who already have the most. That is why, Mr. President of the Government, I am only interested in one thing, very simple: How can it be that it is you, who poses and paints the image as a patriot and anti-corruption fighter, every time you come into power, that you do it in a few years for a decade or more of a corrupt affair?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	The question you have announced was as follows: "At the 27th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I will ask you an oral question on corruption and mafia governance with the country." Now what you have listed is inscribed in the titles of various newspaper articles that have been answered many times. Mr. Snow is neither my tax advisor nor the tax advisor to the government. We have already explained this many times from this city. We never opposed the Swedish experts at DUTB. These were appointed, as I know, during our term of office or even at that time an environment was established where it was possible to invite foreign experts. However, as far as Mafia governance with the country is concerned, I can tell you much, because what is today the main problems of this country is that in this country the udbomafia or, as has recently been the new deadline, the parallel mechanism controls without elections, without the legitimacy of much of the systems and subsystems. I can begin your description where Mr Pezdir started in his book, but it would take too long to skip a bit. In a recent period, this began with the fact that during the first and second rounds of the 1990 elections, 90 % of the national archives were burned and cut apart; then the Slovenian territorial defence was disarmed to prevent independence; then it was privatized to 100,000 state-owned dwellings, including houses in Murgles for substantial amounts; then the second-faith mansion owned by the Republic of Slovenia was replaced, it was registered as its property and is now said to be all right, even a court that houses the same address as the political party that owns this villa. All the central printed media were then privatised, and the former President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council was first named the former President of the Union of Communists and Social Democrats and then the Executive Secretary of the Central Committee, Mr Baskovic, who is still the President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Twice, comrades went bankrupt with state-owned banks, and no one answered. In 1994, it was passed in this house by law, which states that judges who violated human rights must not be appointed for a permanent term. However, 80 % of those who have proven human rights violations, including the imposition of death sentences and the approval of shootings and killings of civilians at the border, were in the Supreme Court of Justice. In 2009 and 2010, the largest state bank was laundered at the time when another government was laundered with $1 billion,700 million of Iranian money, intended to support terrorism, manufacture of nuclear weapons, and pay for Iran’s secret service. The competent institutions today, not only have they not condemned anyone, but they have also accused no one. According to experts, 300 million U.S. dollars were paid out of this business directly from commissions. And here you are looking for corruption, not sandwiches, and I don't know what. Not to mention, at this time, how everything that was possible has been muddy in all the systems. In the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, education, diplomacy, social institutions, public companies, supervisory agencies, and in principle negative staff selection. This is why we now have many social subsystems controlled by parallel mechanisms or, as you say, mafia and corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you. This has now been an exemplar example of how to cover up what you are doing with this defensiveness. Look, Mr. Janša, everything you've listed, because that's what you've done in the past. Now, about Mr. Snow White. He said himself, I'm an advisor to the Prime Minister. He has been explaining in Bosnia since we've been in power, and now around Gen-I we've learned from a man close to your client, Mr. Krkovich, that he's basically a waste of state-owned businesses. So stop pretending. About the Swedes and the bad bank. That's when you delayed that KNJF session until 3:00 in the morning and set them on fire. Banks, bank debts and so on. Remember, on whose shoulders were these situations, your management in the years 2004-2008. The crisis is a direct consequence of how you handled public finances at the time. But we don't want to argue now, because we're not gonna get on the common denominator anyway. What you have just listed can be read or listened to as a list of regrets. I'm sorry you couldn't do it all this time. Obviously, it's not a problem that corruption has taken place, but that this corruption has not taken place under your tactics. In all three attempts when you were on the government, you proved that you wanted to do it. If you just look at your moaning about how the media are influenced by some kubagi left forces, what you're doing now with STA, with RTV and so on, shows exactly that you would do the same. Reverse. What you're doing right now is ten times worse. So my question is: Can't you see that every attempt you've made so far has failed and it's possible that it's time for you to step away not only from Gregorčič's, but from Slovenian political life and let this country breathe?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in this part in which we are now. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I'm asking you to pay attention to this part. I give the floor to the Prime Minister if he wishes to complete the reply in terms of what happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	In what was said, I did not see any additional questions with the greatest possible effort.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	There are several reasons why I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this half-talk or not to reply to the Prime Minister. There are several million euro reasons. One more time. I think that corruption has been shot or that this government has been shot with corruption. Once again, from ministers acting in a manner and otherwise and pressing on different state authorities and state-owned companies, to, in particular, businesses that have been and are still carried out with different connected persons. If we remember the masks supplied by Mr Tonin's mother's company to the respirators, who were helped to supply the Prime Minister's brother with the rapid tests provided by the company related to the largest government party. We can also mention the arms business. This government has made one of the biggest arms purchases in Slovenian history. First the 780 million, and now the boxer armor, whose price increases practically from day to day, from 207 to 250, to 300, to today 412 and the gods, in about a month's time, the value of these armors. At the same time, this government is harmful because it has all the tendencies to privatize public health, pressure public education and plans new and new tax gifts for those who already have the most. In short, it is harmful in all areas, particularly for the inhabitants and residents of this country. I think every day, when this government is in power, it's a lost day for Slovenia, and above all, we're seeing such a picture already, I think, for the third time with very serious consequences. My argument is that this government has been shot down by corruption, that it operates on the principle of some kind of mafia method, and this is shown by every affair that comes out every week, and this should absolutely be discussed by this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. The next question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear President! In Slovenia, all citizens and citizens pay taxes. We come from this fact or this claim that this is happening, we also pay entrepreneurs, and we know it ourselves. And we pay them with pride. Of course, we all want a competitive tax environment, but we do not want this to happen at the expense of some exhaustion of the country or to abolish the social state. I'm sure we don't want that. As you know, Article 2 of the Constitution also states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. And let's keep it that way. No one pays taxes with pleasure, but this is the basis and awareness that these taxes are the basis of some regulated community, which then does something with these taxes. Some here on my left, say on the right, also know and you yourself know Jesus' statement, you go a little bit more to mass than some others, and remember the question that the Jews gave to Jesus at that time regarding the paying of taxes in Rome. This is a famous phrase, give to the emperor what is Caesar's. That's a very famous phrase. In this sense, we must continue and think in such a way that the taxes that we pay, which go to the cash register as such, we use them for construction, we need them for schools, hospitals, for road connections, we need them for the functioning of public services as such, absolutely, public administrations, education and everyone else, the police, the judiciary. We have also saved the economy from these taxes in the last two years. I hope this is a very important matter. This forcible lockdown of yours without taxes and without debt, which would cover some future taxes, you couldn't afford without it, you couldn't pay these fees. Of course, there are also some entrepreneurs, athletes and others who pay taxes abroad. But the effort and effort of the state is to create a balanced tax environment. And that's what I wanted to get to. I said all this, what I gave you the main question at the outset, why I'm listing it, President, is because I'm curious: What is your view of paying taxes, and above all those who do not pay taxes, who avoid it, nevertheless benefit from all these benefits of the taxes paid by others? What do you think? That's my question. Tell me, tell this National Assembly and above all Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Well, you've given a lot of quotes. I could do with some. Let's just say that every tax is something you take from someone, and someone else is distributing what you created. And it follows the principle that taxes, as they call it, must be fair if that is even possible. In this mandate, which is short and additionally burdened by the epidemic, much attention has been paid to finding the right instruments to comply with this principle. For this reason, the Government's Strategic Council for Debarcation has also led or is still being led by an expert in the field of tax policy, Mr Simic, who later became director of the Tax Administration. Much unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles have been removed in the work so far, which have complicated the lives of taxpayers in Slovenia. However, there are even more extensive proposals in the procedure, which will depend on whether the relevant legislation will be voted on. But I can also tell you that a more pragmatic approach to this area has also produced concrete results. In the first nine months of this year, almost one billion less from taxes to our total cash register than in the entire last year, which means that at the end of the year, if there are no severe negative surprises in terms of exacerbation of the epidemic or pandemic, we will significantly exceed the tax revenue from last year, and this will be without raising taxes. This means that it is of fundamental interest that we have high economic growth, high added value, high employment, to create as much as possible. If we create more, then with lower tax rates, we can also get more for common purposes. This is the goal that we pursued in all the governments I led, and it has always proved to be the right path, not just with us, but everywhere else. However, if your economic growth is falling and you are creating less, you can raise taxes indefinitely, as has been the case in some former systems, and in the end, with very high tax rates of small sums you do not get much. It is thus quite clear what is the fundamental consideration of the tax policy that this government is leading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, you have your word for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you. President, look, once again, I will stress that paying taxes is necessary, and we all know that if we want to have our own and our own, if we say so ourselves, an independent state. Once again, no one is paying taxes with pleasure, but it is essential that we have certain goods, that we have certain investments in infrastructure, so that we can take advantage of certain services offered by the State and all these things. The one who doesn't understand, it's a tough thing. But in the light of that, when we heard one of your ministers, the SDS ministers of course, paying taxes for him is stupid. Are we aware of the message this man gave? Not only that, he also convinced even the economist not to pay taxes to the state, because this is really not necessary at the time he was Minister of Economy. You tell me, President, what this message is to our country when we all try here to pay taxes regularly and regularly because we know what it brings. Imagine what your minister's message is now at this time. We've been waiting for your response. Quiet. We have also been waiting for other coalition partners to respond. Quiet. That's why I'm saying here now that you have in your ranks a minister who doubts first, he doubted first the authenticity of the conversation, and then he apologized when he confessed. Now I'm asking you: Do you support such moves? Tell me, tax avoidance. Therefore, the first question was how you felt about paying taxes. Avoiding paying taxes, even by the Minister of Government. We're still a normal country here, I wonder. Really, what have we experienced so far?Oh, my God! I ask for your answer: What do you think of his statement?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Well, of course I don't support calls to avoid paying taxes. Of course, in this matter you are talking about, taxes were not a basic problem. The economist, who was supposed to be told this, paid taxes, as far as I know, but made taxes in Slovenian finances for more than 100 million, even 200 million of them being said, holes that all other taxpayers had to cover. We're talking about Mr. Bojan Petan. That's the problem. And he's still a respected economist, no procedure, nothing happens, you're all dealing with one statement by the minister, which of course wasn't appropriate, but it's been pronounced 14 years and it didn't have any effect on tax collection in Slovenia. I've looked at the latest data, since these illegal videos have been rolling through the media, there's no tax drop like you wanted to show this something dramatic. What is further revealed in this affair is that some as an economist in your political logs make a 100 millionth and more millionth hole in public finances, and we all have to cover it and pay the principals and interest still. And nothing happens. Even then, through his media, whose owner he is, he teaches others morals and respect for the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Cradle Bandelli, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you, President. I knew you wouldn't answer and you wouldn't plead. You were clearly talking about Petan, that he's ours, that I don't know what he is, that he's left-handed. Basically, the fact is, in some way, in what subtle way did he say it, and it's without a connection to me speaking. I'll remind you of a few other things. For example, you've always talked about VAT, you've asked for five times, you've made a proposal to reduce VAT. Last time the marriage was ready, you removed it. Here you can see how serious the purpose was, what the political campaign meant, but let's leave it. / Another very important issue when it comes to economic crime, the President, economic crime and corruption is the biggest problem. Mr. Janša, you have been friends with a person who invites with a jumbo cry for entrepreneurs in a tax haven. Are we aware of this? One of them's been hanging on the coast highway for years. Your friend, because you're in the picture, I'm not in the picture with him, and you are, and that's a big difference. I'll tell you something else. In your ranks, you have another minister, a judge, who is responsible for tax evasion in a court of law. Again with the tax. So it's kind of a basic matter of your tax problem, if I say so. I will not go into detail, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we request a discussion on taxes and government recommendations on the practical avoidance of taxes. Because this is your motto here to avoid taxes. I haven't heard your opinion on Minister Visian, of course we're expecting it at the interview. It would have been better if he had resigned himself before the interpolation began, as Mrs Pivec had done before the time had passed. That would probably be the best choice. Just because I know it's not in your nature, because the concept of SDS is that we're the strongest, we can do what we want, we can do what we want, we say what suits us, we frame where we like, even in sent-mail offices. So I don't expect that. That is why I would like to see a public debate on this, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Next question will be asked by Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Desus Group have already tabled a bill on 13 May this year to definitively address the consequences of the austerity measures suffered by pensioners due to the long-standing economic crisis. The total reduction for individual pensioners in the savings account from 2010 onwards was about 8.4%. With additional harmonisations after 2016, we have only partially returned to the pensioners what belongs to them. Today's backlog represents 3.5%, so our proposal and our desire to remedy this injustice is to harmonise pensions for all pensioners in December of this year at 3.5%. We must stress that the Ministry of Finance has already expressed its support for our proposal. Our proposal to abolish austerity measures is also supported by the SPIZ, the ZDUS, and, last but not least, by the Commission of the State Council. Under the general rules of the legislative procedure, the proposal for the amendment of the ZPIZ-2 should be adopted today, but the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define exceptions to the order of treatment of the proposals tabled both as regards the content and as regards the proposer. The amendment to the Long-Terms Act has also preceded the consideration of our proposal by procedural rules on the right. Since the month of December, in which we anticipate the realization of the so-called correction of the wrongs of pensioners, is just outside the door, we and all pensioners are interested: Dear Prime Minister, will you make every effort to adopt our proposal in a timely manner? Given that the envisaged adoption of our proposal and the budgetary acts are practically identical and that these remedies are not explicitly foreseen in the budget for 2021, I am interested in: How will you provide them? We also need to ensure that financial resources are also provided through the budget in the future. We anticipate and expect our proposal to be adopted. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. What is in our power and power of the Government, we will strive to ensure that the law is adopted in a timely manner and that funds are made available. However, here I have calculations of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, which say that the purpose pursued by the law will be achieved if they reconcile pensions to pensioners who have retired until including 2011, but who were not in the same position, it is said that not all pensioners are subject to 3,5 % compensation, but those who have retired until including 2011, are in a different position than those who have retired later. Here there are also differences in those who have retired until including 2010. The calculations, if we look closely, are slightly different as stated, but in fact it is a matter of course that, as you say, the injustice is corrected to make this alignment. However, this alignment must not create new differences, because then we will have to repair those and never come to a clean one. We support this purpose of the law, but in such a way that this compensation is actually made and that everyone, regardless of when they retired, will be in the same position.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Simonovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Yes, Mr. President, we know these calculations, but there is something else to be said that by raising the percentage of the pension rate, those who went with 1. 1. In 2013, compared to those going to 2023, the difference is 6.25 per cent. So these pensioners are also underprivileged and have been wronged.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	We're not just different here in the details, but there are some differences based on what the PIZ data is. The government, however managed by the pension system, must be based on official data. I don't think there will be any problems and differences here at the end, as far as percentages are concerned. The more important question is the one you raised at the outset about the funds. These funds will have to be provided. If the dynamic of the adoption of the law is to be cut by the adoption of budgetary documents, then we will have to react later. He knows where the money's coming from. Given that there is not enough in the pension register and we contribute from the budget each year, these additional funds will also come from the budget. If trends are as favourable in the future as they are now, this will not be a major problem. If they're not comfortable, the problem will be everywhere else. This is what is essential in solving this problem. So we need the money to get rid of these gaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. As a last question, Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! We're facing the fourth wave of the epidemic. Some say this one goes straight to the fifth. But it's the worst we've ever had. We are still well aware of your calls, as well as the appeals from other professions aimed at citizens during summer holidays, how we have the opportunity to stop the epidemic by autumn, by vaccination and by protecting our lives and the lives of others, so that we can enter into a different autumn and winter than we have seen her last year. We are well aware that only the high cross-section of the population can maintain an open country, an open school, an active economy and, most importantly, it does not put an additional burden on the already exhausted health system, which, due to past mistakes, had to be demonstrated here in particular and further. On this occasion, let me thank everyone who, in the light of responsibility and solidarity, decided to be vaccinated. Too many citizens at the time of the epidemic paid a high price or even a high price. Unfortunately, at this point, the situation is not what you'd like it to be. On the left hand side, we hear many times about dictatorship in this country. If anyone is a dictator in Slovenia, it is a coronavirus. In dictatorship, however, it is maintained by a coalition of opponents of protection measures supported by the Constitutional Court, known organisers, undeclared meeting participants, Hujska media, who are working an additional problem for health personnel and have also found their place as anti-vaccinators. All these people on the other hand, people are dying. The numbers are inexcusable. The hospital meeting we know is what it is, it's about those extreme boundaries. The Government has taken certain measures at the meeting on 5 and 11 November and would like the President of the Government to say: How are these measures now, also in terms of expert consultation and state-of-the-art? Can we expect any further action? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you so much for asking. As far as additional measures are concerned, each day the government shall, on the basis of the proposals of the profession, examine the situation and proposals and adopt measures. Additional measures will certainly be needed. How difficult, or how radical, they will be depends on the extent to which the measures that have been taken in force at this session, mentioned by you, will be implemented. Are these measures working or not? In some areas they are active, in particular the interest in vaccination has increased significantly. We record similar numbers in the last ten days, as we recorded in September, when we introduced the PCT system and when the government also decided to launch more stringent measures with us, it is said that when we introduced the PC system for the state administration, something similar to what we had at the time is now being introduced by some other countries and our neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has kept this measure with us. It has not yet repealed the decision, but it does not decide. I don't know what's ahead. This is how I take advantage of this opportunity to answer the question sent to the Constitutional Court to decide. They're just holding back a decree, some measure, as we see it today, in a nicer situation than we have taken elsewhere in Europe. It would be time for the judges to decide. The government does not know whether it can act in this direction in which those who are more successful in the fight against the epidemic, such as Austria, or whether we can deal with the situation - as it will be - will be. It is necessary to know that the Constitutional Court, with some of its decisions, as well as the Supreme Court, has decided not to punish anyone who does not wear a mask, even though it is prescribed, the government, by its own words, has a population, as well as professions, a lot of teeth when it comes to acting with instruments that they use everywhere else. Since there is no sanction behind something that is mandatory, it does not matter whether we have a measure required or just as a recommendation, because those who are aware of the situation take this into account voluntarily. This is the difference between the situation with us and the situation in countries where they are more successful. I can give you the vaccination numbers after days before the Constitutional Court's decision to freeze the PC measure. We have recorded the trend if it continues, it would allow Slovenia if it were not for this decision to be in a situation where the average is in the European Union today. We'd be in a much better position. In hospitals, we'd have a few hundred less pains due to covid and the intensity wouldn't go down. This is something that we can easily see from the statistics themselves. And there's something else that matters. In most European countries, the opposition is not at odds. We also had some useful proposals from the opposition, including a joint call from the parliamentary groups for vaccination, but when we did a little counting of the calls that went to support the measures and the calls against the measures, the ratio is 4:96. 4 % in support of measures and 96 % in opposition and bargaining. And with such an approach, it is not possible to talk about the unity of the fight against the virus, but it does not endanger just one political side. This is a symmetrical danger that threatens everyone, which would also require a common reaction to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Are you asking me to complete the answer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for this important answer and for everything else you have said. It is true that we continue to listen in this country to the strict measures we have taken. The international index of measuring the severity of the measures shows that this is not the case. Much more stringent measures have been taken by Austria, Italy, Germany, France, Portugal, Poland, Switzerland, Great Britain and so on, and I will not list everything. But some countries are already deciding to lock down for unvaccinated, compulsory vaccination in health care, DSO. But with us, as we say, the Constitutional Court is holding back the ruling, but it is not because it is Pilate's handwashing. But what's the result? So the health system can't do it anymore. And even at a time when they can't do that much more, they're still looking for energy and power in extra beds, both in intensity and otherwise. On the one hand, we have people spreading the virus through various street campaigns, and on the other hand, we have medical students who use different platforms to help the country do their best. I hope that once in this country we will call a stop to those who literally help make the country worse and that it is useful if the number of the dead is larger because it is politically appropriate for someone. The president, tell me, the health situation was bad, we were solving some, I'd say, urgent matters, but we're also dealing with some of the things that we've come up with. You can say more about this, because for decades we've listened to species, problems, and there was no solution. They did today. Can you say more about this because of citizens and citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	As far as space and technology are concerned, Slovenian health care has significantly increased capacity since the outbreak. However, they have not been significantly strengthened as regards personnel, since nurses and doctors cannot be trained within one year, nor can you import them. So these are some of the limitations that today, if we compare this wave to that of last year, threaten to have to look for reserves and help. We've already included this reserve in part. Since yesterday, I think Austria has introduced isolation or a drastic movement limit for all those who have not been vaccinated. For everything. When we tried to do this more experimentally on our own, it is said in the government, in the executive branch, in the administration, we were already detained at this stage. Whether we can go the same way, we should know as soon as possible. That's one dilemma. Second, the central Slovenian national media, national television only began to publish in the logo after many calls a few days ago a call for health protection to fight the epidemic. National television stations in the European Union have been doing this since the outbreak. It took us over a year and a half to get somebody to move. We were all happy when this joint broadcast of the largest commercial and national television was announced, let us step together in the fight against covid. I must first say that I did not see it because I was visiting the region. According to the responses, this broadcast has only contributed to the fact that we are even more conflicted between ourselves or, as Mr Irsič wrote, 50% of the people were satisfied with the show, 50% were disappointed, and 100% were even more disillusioned. And we really don't need such help from the mainstream media to fight the epidemic, because then people are even more upset and we're politically divided in the fight against a virus that's not a political threat. Well, I think it's about time we sobered up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. Procedural proposal? Dear colleague Gilbert, I hope you won't abuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	No, no, then I won't give you my word. Look, you can't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	I didn't mean to abuse you. I just wanted to call the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Look, you can call the citizens, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. I don't want to abuse anything, but given that it's the burning theme of our country, our country, my appeal, I think you'll all join me, let's get vaccinated, let's get vaccinated, let's protect ourselves and others, let's help the country get out of this and, above all, let's call everyone, including the media, let's not get burned, let's not let them help, let's not further exhaust health personnel with pointless shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Well, look, now you've gone a little over it again, but [[…]] I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ange Logar, will answer the question of mags. Andrea Reich related to the activities for the implementation of the arbitral decision between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Ambassador Reich referred to concerns in his question because the Croatian side does not recognise the arbitral ruling. I would like to point out that this has been the case since the adoption of this judgment in June 2017, in other words, for more than four years. Now the question is what Slovenia has done at this time. Above all, this is the issue of the two governments before this government, which initially managed the issue. Both governments have proposed several times the launch of discussions on the implementation of the arbitration ruling, both with a note. The Croatian side did not even respond to the proposal. At the same time, political contacts with Croatia were completely dead, there were no visits, there were no consultations at the working level. Now I don't know if the purpose of the strategy at the time was a complete political eclipse, in order for Croatia to change its mind overnight, but, as we can see, this was a goal, if it was completely flawed. Not only did such a policy not bear any results but it also constituted a major obstacle at a time when we urgently needed the cooperation of all neighbouring countries at the beginning of the epidemic. It should be pointed out that we have 4 billion trades with Croatia, over a billion service exchanges, mentioned the number of over a million Slovenians who travel annually in Croatia. Croatia is the first destination for Slovenian investments. So you can't even describe how intertwined both countries are. Croatia will always be our neighbor. We have open questions with her, too, I agree with the Member on arbitration. However, a diplomatic strategy is essential to address this issue. When I took my mandate, the first time we talked about this matter was when we said that there was no strategy at all. Unless it was a strategy to do nothing, it was to sue Croatia before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This lawsuit has already been condemned to failure. It brought only additional problems and great costs. If I am not mistaken, at the beginning of this call by the National Assembly, we discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Policy. Opinions were mixed at the time, and this kind of escapade cost us all €8.5 million. What else was done after the 2017 verdict? The Slovenian government then decided to implement the verdict unilaterally. A law was adopted which, for example, allowed for the relocation of people living in an area belonging to Croatia after an arbitral ruling. The Law on the Registration of the State Border was also adopted. This essentially meant that we had retreated all the way one-sided, where we could withdraw. Except for one point. As far as the sea is concerned. In spring 2018, a law was adopted which repealed or abolished the Slovenian epicontinental belt and the ecological protection zone. The law adopted an arbitral ruling which denied Slovenia the right to its exclusive economic zone and recognised this right to Croatia and Italy. This ruling was adopted by Slovenia, implemented and withdrawn everywhere where withdrawal was needed, in the course of the previous two governments, where the coalition partner was also Alenka Bratušek. On the other hand, there was no response from Croatia, as I said, to the diplomatic notes exposed. It's about slang. All EU members, not just Slovenia, decide on Croatia's entry into the Schengen. Our position has always been and remains that when Croatia fulfils the conditions, it becomes a member of this area. Under these conditions, as you know, honourable Members, there are security, migration, information and other conditions. He knows more about this than anyone else in the department who runs the file. The European Commission has already concluded that Croatia meets the conditions for entry. But with regard to the blockade, if you've been closely monitoring my response, you've seen where the blockades are taking us. This is about the situation where we were having relations with Croatia before the beginning of this government's mandate, but as I have already mentioned, I have also spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your extensive response. Good-neighbourly relations are crucial for each country and also for co-existence. I'm also glad that at the border there are no more demonstrations or throwing into the rivers and things like that, in fact, things are sort of calming down. You outlined in essence the history of the event, and even at the time of your term of office, you said that you were a proponent of a quiet diplomacy regarding the resolution of these matters. I wonder if it's a secret matter: In fact, what measures have you taken in this area in the field of quiet diplomacy, which you also mentioned in your defense and appointment? The second issue is also related to the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, i.e. the criteria to be met by Croatia. You said it was the responsibility of another ministry, but I would like to draw attention to the recent media report of one newspaper that the Croatian-Bosnian border could be crossed through trade. And it is right that, in fact, when these matters are dealt with, they are also addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you. As regards the question of the North Adriatic, which was directly opened with the intention of the two neighbouring countries following the declaration of the exclusive economic zone, I think that we have also dealt with this matter very quickly together in the National Assembly. Let me say, when we learned about the intentions of the two neighbouring countries, we immediately entered a diplomatic action, but we did not have any legal arguments in our sleeves, even at least internal ones, which in some way undermined Slovenia's position in these discussions. I ensured, however, through diplomatic cooperation with Croatia, that at some dialogue we can work together to manage the Adriatic Sea and this natural wealth, which you also mention in your question and which, here, I also agree with you, is of strategic importance for Slovenia. Therefore, in the given frameworks, which were extremely unpleasant for Slovenia, as mentioned above, arbitration and internal legislation did not give us the right to a zone and there was no contact with Croatia before this government. In fact, we have achieved what we have not achieved in our relations with Croatia in the last 30 years. Slovenia is now an equal partner in the arrangements and discussions on the management of the Adriatic Sea. Our access to the sea is first confirmed by both neighbouring countries and preparations have been made for Slovenian vessels to be able to fish south of point T5. We have formed, as you know, a trilateral that continues regularly. There were two ministerial-level meetings, two declarations were signed, both of which were discussed here in the National Assembly. We're working on draft agreements. We are working together in the field of fisheries, transport and environmental issues, where these resources are involved. Trilateral created new opportunities while opening new paths of cooperation while protecting Slovenia's essential strategic interests. Our access to this sea and freedom of navigation remain intact or further confirmed. As you know, there was also a special panel on this subject of the Bled Strategic Forum, where three directors of ports in the northern Adriatic presented their opinions on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Since this is such an important issue and that people can also clarify what has changed during this period, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this in a substantive debate at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to Questions of Members and Members. Jani Möderndorfer will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Dear Minister Janez Ciegler King! I will not, like usual practice, lecture you for three minutes what has happened and so on, but I will try to ask you a very short and clear question to which, by the way, you have answered several times in writing. We even had one interpretation in the National Assembly. But we are talking about ventilation, because I am interested in the fact that there is not really any item in the budget for 2022 and 2023 after the purchase of equipment that could regulate ventilation in the homes of older citizens, which is of course very important in the case of coronavirus. It is true that our colleague, Mrs Škrynjarova, has recently turned the following into one of the questions or debates of fellow Koprivec. This is, I quote: “No, you will not sell recovery and do left-wing business and extra profits in the public sector. Schools have windows. That was the answer to why we don't need air vents. Now, given that older people's homes have windows, I'm curious: Are we gonna stay at the windows?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Möderndorfer. Let me start by stressing that at the Ministry of Labour we took very seriously all the warnings from experts about the role of ventilation systems, especially when we met the case of the elderly at the Loka in the Wall Bridge, where I went immediately after the outbreak of the virus. There was a major hypothesis that later confirmed that the virus spread very quickly through inadequate ventilation systems. Otherwise, it is also systematically needed in social security institutions, especially in nursing homes, also to ensure a healthy and safe living environment and to improve indoor ventilation. Our operators were informed about the provision of sufficient and effective ventilation by providing clean external air with the NIWS instructions and recommendations, which state exactly what is, and what is, sufficient ventilation. The importance of regular ventilation, one or the other, is also regularly noted through the videoconference, and answers to all questions are available to them. We also have organised education and advice from both competent ministries, so we are not the only competent ministry, but also the Ministry of Health. To be concrete, because you wanted to ask a specific question too. Currently, in 2021, in the year to come, two projects are financed from the budget, which relate exclusively to the restoration of ventilation systems, namely the rehabilitation and improvement of the ventilation system in the Trubar home of pensioners in Loka, the Wall Bridge, which I mentioned earlier, amounting to EUR 383,000, and the installation of the ventilation system in the Metlik Social Work Centre, amounting to EUR 10,000. There, too, on my visit to the South East region, I also took a look at these premises and took note of this new acquisition. However, in general, in this mandate, we have strengthened activities to modernise existing infrastructure in the institutional protection of older and other vulnerable groups. We have implemented and on Friday a list of selected successful public call for co-financing of investments in infrastructure from REACT-EU funds was published, amounting to €93 million in grants for the period 2021 to 2023. This invitation to tender allows these homes to provide a more modern ventilation system with new, renovated buildings. We received 45 applications together in these tender deadlines, which meant that demand was even 100 million more than the money was available. 17 operators and 18 investment projects were selected. In addition, we are planning from other sources, i.e. in the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, the construction of 850 additional places in nursing homes, where modern forms of ageing will be involved. From this heading, €59 million will be made available. There will also be an opportunity to provide more modern ventilation systems. For the purpose of investing in homes for the elderly, the government also proposed higher budgetary resources in the framework of the budgets, amounting to €36 million in 2022. So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. Of course, you said and used the answer to your question to say what we already know more or less. We know that you predicted that there would be new homes, that there would be a search for 850 new beds. In short, everything's fine and well. But let me tell you very simply, Minister, why I don't see any radiation in the budget for 2022 and 2023. In fact, you know very well that in itself it is logical and clear when we have a new investment that, if an investor is of course smart, this cost of a new ventilation device will be seen. But I don't see any means of existing homes to make new ventilation systems. I'm not talking about air blowers that have more or less everyone today. I'm talking about serious ventilators that allow, of course, those particles that are dangerous in the case of covida-19 to make room for those who associate in these rooms. Homes were the biggest target and so I ask you, answer me, in budget 2022, 2023, this is the only evidence we are talking about for funds for existing homes. We've got quite a few. I'm glad we have two investments, but it's a drop into the sea. I'm interested in budgetary resources, that's all that counts, all the rest are empty words. Please, I believe you are aware of the problem, but you know, in the end, when we draw the line, we can only check how much we have and how much will happen and, above all, when it will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, honourable Member Möderndorfer, for this addition to the question. I understand what you want to ask, but don't hold back that only budget lines show what we are going to invest in these modern ventilation systems, which we talked about in the first part of the answer to your question. REACT funds are earmarked from the European Union, from an old financial perspective, which, precisely because of covid, has enabled this intentional use to strengthen resilience and eliminate the effects of covid-19. In this context, in these 18 investment projects, which were published on Friday and are also on our website and we also communicate them, the funds will allow homes to provide more modern ventilation systems. And for the record, we're both talking about the state-of-the-art ventilation systems, which on the one hand are energy-efficient, enable recovery and everything that belongs to it, and on the other hand, which, and you probably thought as a key condition, have the appropriate filters, microfilters, that then the viruses and the like, I can say, micro particles don't spread around buildings. On the budget lines, when we talk about budgetary resources for these investments, from which investments in social security institutions will be financed, these funds are available on the registered projects, i.e. the item is an investment in long-term care, and then the registered projects reveal what they are investing in. On the basis of the approved investment documentation for the proposed intervention - whether it is a new construction or a reconstruction, maintenance work, including for projects to regulate or rehabilitate ventilation systems - a new project is opened in the development project plan, we all call it an NRP, and then funds from the budget entry are transferred to it. This is a key reason why you did not see in the budget item intended for the air-conditioning systems of the dedicated money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I expect that we will vote on the proposal, of course, to hold a debate on this subject, especially for the reason that we are mostly sitting in this room, all those who are more or less confronted with the budget, the NRP and, of course, the functioning and functioning of how this thing actually works. The fact is that in the last two years we have had quite a few new constructions of primary schools, but there are no such air conditioning facilities, but this logic has been applied both to the NRP and to the budget. Only in Ljubljana do I know of two primary schools that do not have one, and this is due mainly to the fact that, in the end, the cost of investment and encouragement has, of course, fallen away. So I expect us to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Minister, thank you so much for your efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear Madam Minister! From Wednesday onwards, students will test themselves three times a week in schools and not at home. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has thus not complied with the demands of schoolchildren to change the decision on the self-testing of children in schools. In fact, last week the principals pointed out some inconsistencies in the decree, which introduces the self-testing of all students in schools, and suggested that students continue to be tested alone by the 5th grade from home as well as young people with special needs. However, only children with special needs will be able to test themselves if they are unable to do so at school. Sadly, students and students who are not going to test themselves in schools will have to learn from a distance. While it is clear from your statements that this is a case of professional proposals that need to be taken into account in a consistent manner, it is then very interesting to see how the expert takes partial account of the decisions of this Government, but the fact that you have completely excluded a key profession from the decision-making process, which will have to directly implement your decisions on the ground. I'm talking about principals. I'm talking about schoolchildren. The fact is that, unfortunately, again without dialogue, without an introduction period overnight, you have taken extremely restrictive measures, which concern the most vulnerable groups, this is a child. It is unacceptable that the competent ministry did not take into account the student proposals, because they are those who actually know the situation on the ground, who know what measures are actually feasible and who do not. They called and asked that the rigorous measures that would be difficult to implement in practice be adapted and amended so that they could be consistently respected and respected. In so doing, let me say that I am disappointed when we monitor your media performance and present to you, for example, some real situation, that a child who will not be tested on his own, but whose parents will reject schooling from home, that this child will, for example, be brought to school and the principal will ask us how to deal with such situations, so that we can place the full responsibility on them again. So the problem is that not all life situations were overlooked and a bureaucratic decision was made again. But the problems that will apply this in real life have been passed on to schoolchildren, and this is unacceptable. That's why I'm asking you: Whose advocate are you, in fact, if you're not a supporter of schoolchildren, parents, and children? Why did you not take into account the suggestion of schoolchildren that all students should continue to be tested in their home environment by the 5th grade? Why didn't you involve the students in the decision-making process? Will you insist on this decision, or will you, on the other hand, adjust these measures in spite of all else and make sure that self - examination continues from home for students up to the fifth grade? How is this actually going to happen if the tests themselves are like this? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	I'm afraid we're out of time. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member! Right now, we're in probably the most intense wave of the virus in the whole year. Very similar to last year's, however, it was smaller in scope, with much difference, namely, last year we had such a time to fight the virus with a protective mask, this year we have a vaccine and we have tests and testing and self-testing and we can fight harder, stronger. However, when we look at school space with these facts, I regret to see that we are dealing with very similar challenges and problems as we did last year. Last year, still such a time, we argued with one part of the company, which is exactly the same arguments that you are using today, along with the part of the policy, that protection masks are not really needed in the fight against the virus, some even argue that there is no virus at all. This story has led us to close and optimize last year’s school year in a way that took us far away. I hope that with this experience and with the fact that the big change that we have now available, that is, that we can be vaccinated, or that we can be tested preventively, so that we can collide safely despite the fact that the virus is very invasive at this moment, that we will no longer come back and talk about the same things again. If this is an expert opinion, and this is not a pedagogical expert opinion, but an epidemiological and health condition, that the condition that we have a securely open school is now, given the state of the virus in the country, then I must respect this if we are to have open schools. We can also understand those who have decided on their own initiative, on their own responsibility, not to respect it. In this case, we've told you what the result is. We can't do more than that. We had less than one week of two meetings of the AVK, with all the directors who wanted to participate. We were present at our Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and the NEJZ to describe the situation, to explain the situation that we have also listened to responses, to the views of the problems that the principals have on their side, and, on the basis of this, to the professional level of those responsible, once again, epidemiologists and the health part of the profession. And their assessment was as it is, and as it is now regulated in a decree that will enter into force on Wednesday. And because some principals, not all, in primary schools, still have legitimate difficulties, problems, including pressure from the general public on performance, we will organize another AVK meeting with them tomorrow morning to help them further explain and inform them about matters. But see, the fact that we want schools to be open and safe today is respect for these measures, which are now proposed here. Nobody likes them, I like them personally, too, but you know, I'd rather not have them. I'd like to see that there's no virus at all. Yes, it is. And we must respect this, and we must all do everything together to overcome this difficult period with one tolerance, cooperation, understanding and respect of the profession and move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much. A supplement to that, because I didn't get a full answer. Now, first of all, if you want tolerance and understanding, then you need to anticipate dialogue, dialogue with all stakeholders who are key to the implementation of certain measures. It is a little absurd to talk about who resisted certain measures, who did not in the past year. We, as the opposition, have also repeatedly called on you to keep schools as open as possible, but you closed them overnight without any consideration of our actions. As regards wearing masks, it is also important to take a good look at the World Health Organisation’s instructions and how important it is to look at groups according to age, so by age 5, absolutely prohibit wearing masks, and from age 6 to 12, there are special instructions that must include risk and from age 12. The key thing that you haven't done again is that you haven't looked at the years, even though your parents have warned you that by the time you're 12 years old, there's still a difference in the treatment of children from the age of 12. At first, it seemed that the Ministry would understand and that you would change the decree to adjust schooling and self-testing in schools until the fifth grade, and that was not the case. And I think you're acting absolutely contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, because it's not the child's benefit. Here I will read to you once again the articles of the Convention, I am very sorry that I am so close to time, but with all appropriate measures you must ensure the protection of the child from all forms of distinction, punishment due to the situation, the operation of the opinions expressed. You will now introduce a hybrid study. There will be only one child who will be discriminated against by parents who have decided not to allow themselves to be tested in schools. This is directly an unequal position of the child. That's what's most wrong. I am confident that once the Constitutional Court is reached, inequality and unconstitutionality will be absolutely visible here. What are you going to do to avoid it and turn on the schoolchildren? Will you include them in the adoption of measures? Because you haven't done it yet. They're professional, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much. See, schoolchildren are always involved in dialogue to find solutions, but schoolchildren are not epidemiological and medical professions. And if we want to have a safe open school and ensure conditions for them to be able to work, schoolchildren, then the medical and epidemiological profession has just said that this is possible in the way we have it and the way we introduce it. I don't know what else to tell you. And also your call last year for open schools, it was absolutely, but your call last year for open schools was, open schools without masks. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm telling you, but you know, because you're smokin' me too, and you're giving me things that aren't holding. First of all, the first right of a child is to be healthy. And all other rights and all other activities must be subject to this fact. And if this means that under special conditions, under different conditions for a short period of time, the fight against the virus will have to carry out some additional measures, wear a mask, test itself, it is our right and responsibility to do so. And the only thing I am asking you all here, in this room and the general public, especially parents and the general public, please understand how difficult, difficult we are in this moment. If we want to ensure health not only for our children, but also for those who work in education and beyond, then we must respect these measures. Let's get along, let's help each other. Nobody wants to do that, but we're dealing with the virus, and we have to do it. Help the principals, help the teachers to complete this period with measures that most countries have been carrying out for quite some time, our neighbouring Austria, the majority of Germany, see Italy, which had the most dramatic experience at the beginning of the epidemic, today there has been no problem with problems for quite some time with such measures as are now being introduced into Slovenia's school space. So, again, a call for understanding, patience, and help. Let's step in here together for the sake of knowledge, for the sake of our children and for the health of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Of course, I will make a procedural proposal to hold a general debate in the National Assembly on those measures and on the Minister's response, because this is necessary because this response has been incomplete and essentially full of absolute manipulation. At no time did the Minister reply whether she would take into account any suggestions and appeals from schoolchildren and parents. Now he's saying that the dialogue is going on. We can read, quote: “The Minister of Education Simona Kustec has not been available for much longer for dialogue with schoolchildren and parents, they warn in the school union of SWIZ, and regarding managers that the new decree raises the issue of pedagogical adequacy and legality.” There was absolutely no child benefit under the Convention when adopting these measures, because if they were to understand that the measures concerning the education of children, self-testing in schools were not only an epidemiological profession, this expert group should be broader, this expert group should also take into account the mental state and the plight of children. The question of how all these measures will affect children in development. We have been saying for the past year that mental distress among children is on the rise, that the number of suicides among children, adolescents, is increasing because it is alarming. I don't know if it's in this expert group of yours, at least I haven't noticed that any child psychologists would be part of this professional team that would suggest measures for self-testing in schools or for hybrid education. There are also absolutely professionals and schoolchildren who themselves are implementing these measures in practice who will themselves face exceptional problems in practice when they happen to be rejected and so on. It is possible to adopt a decree requiring self-testing under the age of 12 and, on the other hand, this same decree states that PCT is not necessary for less than 12 years. On the third page, we have self-test kits that say that less than 12 or even 14 years of age should not even be self-tested, but should do so with help. On the fourth page, teachers, of course, cannot support a child until the age of 11 in self-testing, because it is against themselves, testing or self-testing. Therefore, it is clear from this implementation that a broader debate is needed. At the same time, I ask that this arrogant person of authority be let down a little bit and that he is primarily listening to people, but not speaking, we are in distress, let's take action. We're all in trouble, and we're all asking you to consider the other side. I hope that we will hold a debate in the National Assembly on all these aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Eva Irgl will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! Good road infrastructure is particularly important due to traffic safety, due to greater flow, due to faster connections, even today, when we need to somehow be from point A to point B because we live in such a pace or in an intensive way of life. About a year ago, Prime Minister Janez Janša negotiated some kind of funding in Brussels so that we can build today and invest in road infrastructure or also road infrastructure across Slovenia, that is, many infrastructure projects are being implemented that improve the quality and quality of our country's stay. And we certainly want safe road infrastructure in the Vipavska Valley and in the whole of Goriška. I've been pointing out for quite some time the necessity of building a circle on Coke. That's what we talked about. The residents of Cola warned me several times in the past that only by building a circle can we ensure better safety and accuracy for all participants in transport. It is therefore an arrangement of the circular intersection of the regional roads of Col-Premier and the Black Top–Col in the municipality of Ajdovščina. On the basis of all these requests and calls I received from the local community, I addressed to you about a year and a half ago an initiative to build this circular on Cole, and I am pleased that the Ministry has recognized the necessity of this construction, especially because it is only by doing so that we can ensure better safety and accuracy for all the players in the transport sector, because this section is now very dangerous. It has been said that it will begin to build in the summers, such information from you has also been given to me. We're not there right now. And I'm really interested in the fact that people are also writing to me on social networks about what's going on with the circle. I know there's some additional paperwork coming up. I want to know: When exactly is it supposed to start building a circle on Cole? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. Yes, road infrastructure is certainly crucial in particular in rural areas for the development of the economy, to facilitate people's mobility. And all the investments go just for that purpose. In Goriška, 19 different measures are currently being implemented, huge investments. Currently, measures amounting to EUR 66 million are being implemented in Goriška. So, in particular, where works have stalled where necessary, there are many efforts to get to better roads, roads and so on. Even in the Vipavska Valley, for example, we have a series of activities that are taking place, in particular, Ajdovščina - Lokavec, the construction of a cycling link, including the renewal of a road worth EUR 1.3 million. Then it is important to overcoat the Ribnica and arrange the Ribnica, it is from Crushed to Podnanos. In Podnanos too, we will build a sidewalk to the cemetery and beyond. So a number of sums are also invested in the Goriška region. With regard to Col himself, he also recognized that there was a need for a circle of two titles. First, easier traffic arrangements and second address is traffic facilitation. There comes a lot of speed and it's very risky for people who live there, the walkway is there and so on. Many times there may have been traffic accidents there, and so on. It is said that as far as the cola procedure itself is concerned - this is the moment where documentation is regulated for the acquisition of land and other things. We should have only been building, that's a fact, but there were certain complications in the process. And the construction will be possible immediately, and I'm counting on it to be possible within two months as soon as these complications are resolved with documentation alone. There were also certain parcels to be bought and negotiations at the same time, and this was delayed. So I'm counting on us to start building a circle that's absolutely necessary in January, February, at Cole. This is actually also based on initiatives, Mrs Irgle, from you came this idea and even the circle itself has a basis in this idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	I'm going to be very brief. I am pleased with this answer, but it is important that we resolve such things from the point of view, because the fact was that this local community has actually been informed that this will be settled in the summer, then things have shifted in the meantime. I understand these procedures and I also somehow told them, when I was in contact with people, some things I also said, but it is certainly important that this is done as soon as possible and that we ensure that traffic will run safely there, because no one wants there to be an accident or situation in which everyone could feel very bad. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	The Colo Cross is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Directorate itself to start construction in the following year at the beginning of the year. Surely, as far as all things in the Vipavska Valley are concerned, it is a priority. Let me also mention the road through Vipavo and the arrangement, and this moment a cycling track from Vipave to Ajdovščina is being designed, says the big projects, which will also be interesting for the development of cycling tourism in the Vipavska Valley itself. In the light of this, projects are also being implemented, tourism is what is called, while the economy is also developing rural areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Defence a question, mag. Matthew Tonin, which is a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. When this third government of John John Janša was formed, you had every coalition partner full of promise not to open up ideological topics. Although the rejection of collaboration and the free fight against nazifascism should never be the subject of debate at all, in the name of reconciliation, the balance of official right policy is increasingly inclined to rehabilitate national traitors who have received weapons from the hands of the invaders and turned them against their own people, not to mention all the crimes in Urh, Kozlar's guests, all the treachery, beatings, deportations of Jews, Roma, knowing left-wing men, beatings of their wives, mothers and children and could still be listed. This rejection is worthy of any conviction and is not honored anywhere in Europe. In contrast to the so-called postwar killings that have taken place all over Europe, right policy excuses today’s magnification of this greatest disgrace of mankind — nazifascism, lower than the vicious industrial burning of people in furnaces. Symptomatic and worrying, however, is the fact that Slovenia did not support the resolution against the glorification of Nazism within the UN. This year, on the Day of the Dead, the President of the Government personally sent the guard of the Slovenian Army to lay the wreaths on his behalf to the monument of the patriots. Someone who has cooperated with the invader is worthy of his respect, while this does not apply to those who have given life in battle again this greatest evil, because he has not sent the guards to any of the partisan marks, even though it is these freedom fighters who deserve to have their country and their language today. We have learned from the media that you, Matthew Tonin, as Minister of Defence, have not been informed at all about this provocative action and the abuse of the guard of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The fact that President Pahor is the commander-in-chief of the Slovenian Army is the following sad fact. It would be great if the President of the country could be the president of all Slovenians, but unfortunately he did not miss the opportunity to be silent, just as much as he said when it was probably better to remain silent. The questions that call for answers and I expect them at the following meeting are: Who commands the Slovenian Army - you, the president of the country or Ivan Janez Janša himself? Does he command it in writing or on Twitter? Where did that order come from? Do you even know what kind of repudiation you have committed? How can you, as a minister who is supposed to take care of the welfare and reputation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, allow it to be led and directed by the Prime Minister of the Government instead of you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I've said it publicly several times and I'm going to say it again today. In my eyes you're a big fan of the tax system and of public finances, and when I heard that you were going to take over the role of Minister of Finance in this government, I said to myself, well, at least public finances will be in good hands. For weeks we're going to be looking at a package of budget documents and my feeling, given your good knowledge of the area, is that these documents don't carry your fingerprints. The public financial picture in our country is very bad, very sad. We are most in charge of the entire Slovenian history. In three years, you've managed to make 10 billion losses. Only 5 billion of these are to solve the cod crisis or to protect people and lives, as we hear. The structural deficit is historically high, we have never been the worst in the European Union. The worst. Thus, we are the largest patient in the European Union in the field of public finances. And all of this, of course, gives us great concern about what will happen in the future. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you: What is your view that Slovenia has the highest public debt in its history, has the worst budget in the European Union for 2022, which shows the highest structural deficit? On the expenditure of the state budget, I ask: What is your view that those who actually decide on the budget decide why public money will be spent, this is the National Assembly, does not know why you will spend 670 million euros, which you will provide to the government or government by adopting amendments to the decree for 2021? Please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this question. This budget, for 2021, for 2022 and for 2023 and so on, is under the influence of, I will say, exceptional financial conditions. I am not speaking in a legal sense here, but because of the co-pid crisis and there are certainly great risks here. Here I must, of course, well, I do not wish to be belligerent, but, however, we are among the worst or the second worst country since the structural deficit, stressing that the European Commission is calculating the structural deficit in a time of so-called emergency in finance or at a time when a derogation clause is in place, but does not assess countries on the basis of a structural deficit and does not propose any measures in this regard. That's what you're saying. It's a simple calculation. Because of the withdrawal clause and because of the emergency situation, it does not actually accept any recommendations. So this angle takes into account the way in which the structural deficit is calculated, where we can say, of course, that the structural deficit involves the so-called exclusion of cyclical and unique effects, the production of gaps, all problems with the production gap, the difference between, when we are talking about elasticity, the output of the gap multiplying this elasticity, the difference between the potential gross social product and so on. In short, a lot of complicated formulas that I wouldn't be talking about right now. But what I'm saying is that this is one of the indicators that shows the situation in public finances, but it's not an exclusive indicator. Once again, the European Commission does not assess countries on the basis of this indicator at a time when a derogation clause is in force. Nevertheless, I certainly believe that this indicator must be taken into account primarily for public finances in the near future. Here, of course, I must say that, if we are now talking about this structural deficit table, the European Commission will make precise recommendations at the end of April 2022 for three years ahead, that is to say 2023, 2024 and 2025. And this fiscal effort is set by the European Commission for those countries with a deficit of 3%, which is also the so-called Maastricht deficit criterion. And we are counting on estimates that in 2024 we will not have a smaller deficit than 3%. We are not talking here about structurally, but about this and, of course, the nominal deficit. From this point of view, of course, I also count that, at that time, this is also based on some of our analyses and documents that we have sent to the European Commission, clearly on what recommendations I am referring to, the recommendations will be accepted by the European Commission. Here, of course, I must say that I do not expect any repetitions of measures from ten years ago, especially because both European monetary and fiscal policies have changed significantly over the past ten years. She has also found ways to resolve public finances, and from this point of view I expect that there will certainly be some effort from all sides, that this structural deficit will simply improve and that we will get a more favourable indicator, which I say again, is one of many indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Yes, Minister, this is one of the indicators that is catastrophically bad. Another indicator is a debt that is equally catastrophically bad. So I asked you what our future will be like with such a bad backpack, of course I am talking about Slovenia, about the state future. In fact, you have already answered me in part that all efforts after action will be made by a new government because they will take place in 2023, 2024 and 2025. It's wrong that the government that comes after you will have to correct the mistakes again. I agree, the situation is difficult, but the situation is difficult, because when we speak economically, we like to commend ourselves many times that we have economic growth as long as we have not. And it's true, 6.4 is the last economic growth assessment this year. And that's a lot. And that's why it's so much more worrying about the deficit and the debt that's coming. Since public financial policy is supposed to be countercyclical, this means that in good times the state must not create deficits, but in bad times the state is here to help. At the end of the day, he asks you to say, only after the indents, for the purposes of saying: Why will 670 million be used when the decree in the National Assembly is confirmed? Will it be for wages or will it be for material costs or will it be for supplements or will it be for investments? Just to the grave, please, if you can split this 670 million by purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much. There may also be a difference between us that some see that the glass is half empty, but I see it half full, but anyway, it's personal perceptions. I don't see the state of public finances as catastrophic. Nor am I talking about the worst public debt in terms of gross social product. Of course, if we look nominally, this is one indicator, if we look at it as the European Commission sees it in those main parameters, it is another indicator. So I can't see it from this angle. Here I can even see that there are 6 countries - these statistics are clear, I will not now list them - more than 100% of gross social product, to which I would not boast, of course, but only as a comparison. So not from this point of view, because I can also say that, during the crisis, the country on average was less indebted, of course, given the gross social product that other countries owed. So we're in the first half. This information is well known, it is known to all of us, it is known to us. So I can't talk about some catastrophic public finances right now. But it is true that among those countries that have given the most money for counter-crisis measures, among those who have given the most, I say so. And as a result, this reflection, if you want, under the terms of reference, is reflected in economic growth, is also above average, again depending on the gross social product. That is why we have lower unemployment than other countries have. We're among the first to have low unemployment. This is why we have fewer bankruptcys than we had in 2019. This is why we have higher revenues today than we had in 2019. This is said to be a significant reflection, and that is why I, once again, do not agree that we are talking about a catastrophic situation in finance, because that is simply not true. All of this international information is not true. The second thing I would like to stress, of course, is that what is important here is the stability of these public finances. And if we look at the debt, of course we've financed that debt. We also have a reserve, of course, and this reserve is important for maintaining liquidity, so there is no money from this point of view that would not have been used in a non-transparent way, which would not have been used in a way that would not have been visible, as we gave all this data to the National Assembly after all. And debt decreases according to gross social product and also decreases deficits or deficits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	I think it is such an important topic that it is right to discuss this subject in the National Assembly as well. And, of course, the future will somehow show which one of us, Mr Minister, is right. In April 2022, if I understand correctly, a moment of truth will come from the European Commission. True, it will then be exactly the time of the elections, but perhaps it will also be one of the important topics for the elections, how to proceed with the picture we have. Economic growth is good, that's a fact. If we look at neighbouring Croatia, there are 2 percentage points above us, 8 and a few percent Croatia will have economic growth. The fact is, we have the highest responsibility. The fact is, our structural deficit is the worst. But it's the methodology, but it's the fault of anything else, it's the dilemma, but it counts for all countries by the same methodology. So if ours is wrong, it's also wrong of other countries. And this is a very bad trip that the new government will get after April 24th to the table. Hard times await us, but yes, we will have to save or save what can be saved. I still haven't got an answer, but I don't want to go to the last euro, but at least in the grave, whether these 670 million will go to 200 for wages, 100 for supplements, 300 for what. That's what I'd like anyway. And since you don't have time now, Minister, perhaps in explaining the decision we're going to take to end this debate. 670 million at 15 billion is not I don't know how much, but there's still a lot of money, so maybe then.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Tadej Šuštar Zalar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! It comes December when it will be possible to buy annual e-wine for next year. This will move forward towards digitisation and say good-bye to the practice of cracking wine from our windshields next year. I welcome this news very much, and additional information and awareness will also be needed to inform the public of the new procurement process. That's why I want to know: How will the process of buying e-wine look after the new? Where can e-wine be bought? Will it continue to be possible to purchase at the gas station? Will there be any special features regarding the purchase of weekly and monthly vignettes compared to the purchase of annual vignettes? Will registration or purchase only be done online or otherwise? How will some older ones who are not digitally literate make it easier to get to the vineyard? Thanks for the answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. I agree with you that the time has really come for us to take a step forward in the field of tolling of passenger vehicles in the direction of digitisation and to introduce the e-wine system instead of the current stickers, the current labels. In addition to the many advantages that e-vinjets have, one of the advantages will be that physical removal of vinyl from windshields will no longer be necessary. Look, we're a digital society, and it's only right that we keep pace with time. E-vinite will still be available at the sales sites of DARS and also at the sales places of their contractual partners, home and, of course, abroad. To a large extent, it will not be a mistake, it is a gas service, which means that for less digital written users the purchase will also be quite easy. Of course, there will be an important innovation in buying e-wine online purchases, which will make it easier for a lot of people to buy e-wine themselves. The introduction of eVT will cost no more than the existing system, as the toll will continue to be paid according to the time of use of the toll road and not by the distance actually transported. Why not? With the wine system, we have strengthened the transport of people on highways that are safer than regional roads and reduced the number of traffic accidents and also the number of deaths. And once we have introduced the payment of the blame itself after a kilometer, it will be again so that more people will use the regional roads for the transport referred to in point A at point B and then we will witness the burdens of local, regional and, as a consequence, more traffic accidents. Thus, the same types of vineyards will remain in force: weekly, monthly and annual. Only the charging method will be changed as it will replace e-vignettes in the form of a classic label attached to the vehicle's windscreen in the form of a digital record, which will be attached to the vehicle's registration plate. As it is known, in the interim period until the end of January 2022 weekly and monthly vignettes will still be in the classic form of stickers and then all e-wine will be digital only. Yearly and half-year-olds come 1. 12th of this year. 1. This year 12 will be able to buy an annual e-wine. Let me say that during the month of November, Dars also provides additional information to the users of the toll network, and on their website all the more detailed explanations regarding the e-wine system are available. In addition, there is a great deal of information to be found in various means of public information in this regard. According to our assessment, such users of the toll network will have sufficient information on the new tolling system or on the e-vignette. The importance of e-vinjete is also that it is a more fair system for the user himself, namely, e-vignette will be valid for one year from the date of purchase. Now we have cases where someone buys a car in August of the month and its vineyards are valid until the end of January of the following year. In this case, it will apply for 12 months, for example from August to next August. So, a fairer system for users, and at the same time, Dars won't have any less money. E-vignettes bring a number of news while at the same time facilitating the form for users, certainly. The end is the removal of the existing windshield sticker in mid-January. We're just gonna do it one more time to remove these last stickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone! It is true that there is no minister, but since we are going to be deciding these days at this meeting of the National Assembly on the amendment of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities after the veto of the State Council, I feel obliged to ask the Minister this question and expect an oral answer. The Minister opposes the amendment of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities in Work, allowing vertical connections between the municipality and the public-owned drug supplier. This is followed by the acquisition of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, which, if the Minister does not change his opinion or if he does not oppose those who order him to do so, will result in a duopol of two drug wholesalers privately owned. Worse still, it will result in the collapse of the Marabori supplier Farmadent and endanger the existence of the Ljubljana-based LL Grossist, and both are public property. This practically means that the Minister and the Government are consciously favouring a legal solution that allows the generated profits to go to multinationals instead of returning to people through the local community for, for example, the expansion of the public health network. I believe that Mr Poklukar is an honest man and a taken minister, so I am concerned if he understands why it is at all and what he is up against people. He, his secretary of state, the Government, all repeats the concerns of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, which, more than obviously, advocates the interests of the two largest wholesalers with private-owned medicines, does not take into account the welfare of society and even in the temple of democracy dares representatives of the people to recruit foreign capital instead of those whose interests we represent. Despite the fact that the Minister has no ill intentions, I demand an answer from him: Does he understand how harmful, protective, and morally controversial thesis is when he denies the possibility of vertical connections in public supply of medicines and devices? Does he understand that this is a way to turn his back on citizens and citizens and to serve the private capital of multinationals? Besides, in general lack of public health during the epidemic, private doctors, despite Hippocrates' oath, act as if there is no epidemic. Hospitals and health homes are crying out for stitches, and private health care is running around the established rails. What will the Minister do to make the privates take on part of this burden? Only the Minister is responsible for redistributing national health resources in the epidemic fairly and thus not just bringing public health to its knees. Please, an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! For the 16th meeting of the Health Committee, which was 30 years old. 9. 2021, where a second consideration was held of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, we also received a letter from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. In this letter to the National Assembly, AVK took the view that the proposed amendment to Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity was not sufficiently substantiated and did not constitute an appropriate solution and therefore the AVK did not undermine it. The AVK, which carries out a statutory task in the public interest in order to ensure the protection of competition in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of a unilateral cancellation of the cooperation agreement between Chemofarmation and the Farmedent, takes one year to initiate a procedure to establish infringements of competition law. 4. Ten. In 2019 Kemofarmation unilaterally cancelled the contract in question to Farmadent, which is 28. Ten. 2020 submitted an application to the AVK for infringement of competition law. And there's only two AVKs. 11th, just before the veto, invited the applicant to apply for the opening presentation meeting. Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking you to comment on the decisions of the AVK. Since the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology also performs tasks in the field of competition protection, I ask you: In this case, does the AVK, as the guardian of competition, need more than a year to simply invite the applicant to report a breach of competition law in order to be able to comment on the very consequences of unilateral derogation from the contractual obligation? This, in my opinion, constitutes a direct breach of competition law rules, resulting in the exclusion of competition, a higher price due to the monopoly on the supply market for medicinal products and the business damage to Farmadent, d.o.o. In addition to the fact that the AVK against Chemofarmation, d.d., found their misuse of medicines for 2007-2013 against Kemofarmation, d.d.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Dušan Verbič, distinguished National Assembly, chairman! Thank you for asking. As you have already rightly stated, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in accordance with Article 30 of the Law on State Administration, performs, inter alia, tasks in the field of competition protection. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition is completely independent and independent in the performance of its tasks and responsibilities and that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology supervises the work and operations of the Agency in accordance with the provisions of the law governing public agencies. This does not mean looking into the individual cases under consideration. As a result, I do not have more detailed information on the specific case. However, I received clarifications from an agency which did not initiate the procedure in that case because, according to their assessment, the conditions under the law were not met. If the conditions were met, they say the Agency would inform the public of the procedure introduced via its website. We do control and control the work of the Agency, we do it with all due care and within our responsibilities. The Agency has indicated that it has not initiated the procedure in that case so far. That doesn't mean he'll never be. The Agency, it says, is following developments on the market and assessing whether a procedure is necessary. The fact is, the Agency received the application, they already found out in the first review of the application, so they say the conditions are not met. Failure to issue a decision stating the procedure, non-institution of the procedure or exemption shall reject the matter if the conditions for the initiation of the procedure are not met. This is all I can say at this point, although I believe that even this period of one year is unacceptable under all the rules the Agency has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, the credibility of the AVK administration remains inconsistent and questionable. Is Kemofarmation so resilient or even generally so in the event of unfair competition on the supply market by Chemofarmation? But in a specific case, at least two important facts are fully known for AVK. First time. The 2013 AVK itself found that Chemopharmaceuticals had negotiated or acted in a coordinated manner to determine the prices of medicines, market sharing or public procurement, as well as the award of tailor-made offers in the public procurement process of public pharmacies. In addition, the AVK at the State Audit Commission in the case of the contract of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia in 2019 fully succeeded in its complaint, so that it was noted that the operation of Chemofarmation in the supply market was controversial. It should also be noted that one month ago, the State Audit Commission fully cancelled a contract for the supply of medicines of more than EUR 1 billion in the same pharmacy chamber in 2019. From this we can conclude that the AVK was known before the issued letter of 27. 9th, but it doesn't react. The fact is that he does not know or want to know Directive 24 of the European Union on the so-called in-house public procurement, and this is worrying. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to initiate an internal control procedure for AVK's work in Chemofarmation regarding the abuse of the dominant position in the drug supply market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	As I said, the Agency shall inform the public of the procedures introduced through its website, as provided by law. Obviously, no specific procedure has been introduced, so they have not informed the public as usual. The Ministry will continue to exercise control within its powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Since 2014, I have highlighted the problem and specificity of the Haloz area, which are also part of the border problem area. Many oral, written questions have been raised and, last but not least, meetings of the Economic and Agriculture Committees have been convened. For the issue of Haloz, a working group was also set up in the National Assembly at our initiative, which included a set of necessary measures in its final report. Unfortunately, the preparation of a priority list of implementation projects has not taken place and, of course, all activities related to these projects relate mainly to the capacity of individual local communities in the area and depend on them. For Haloze, I believe that we both agree that they are unique in their geographical position and have endless natural possibilities, given to the development of both the economy, tourism and, last but not least, organic agriculture. Unfortunately, we cannot expect real development if, as an area, they do not receive the appropriate support of the entire Government, the country, we can say almost all the resources, and not least, of course, not without increased investments in this area. For the development of Haloz and border areas, I think it is crucial that we first maintain the population of these border areas, that we improve people's quality of life with appropriate infrastructure – here I am also thinking of communication infrastructure, the Internet – and that we especially ensure young people's proximity to jobs. Poorer job opportunities are the key reasons why young people leave the area in particular. As a result, of course, we will be able to improve only the demographic picture in this area very quickly. Dear Minister, you are in charge of coherent regional development. I believe you understand the problems these areas face. Mr. Minister, I'm specifically interested in: When will the four-year programme of development incentives for border areas be adopted? What concrete measures are in this programme? What exactly does this mean for the Haloz area where Haloze can be found here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Dear Member Susana Lepi Šimenko, Honourable Assembly of the State, Chairman! Thank you for asking. The Haloza municipality, which we have already discussed here, is one of the borderline problems of areas for which systemic measures are envisaged. The border problems of areas are identified as priority areas of all development policies. This means that the Ministry and other donors of incentives in the preparation of the incentive programmes should devote some of the financial resources to projects and investors from these areas, or to a project from these areas – this is important – we allocate additional points in the selection process under the call for proposals. We are paying special attention to these areas at the Ministry and we are implementing a series of measures, which I have already mentioned here several times. A four-year programme of development incentives endorsed by the Government shall be drawn up in accordance with the Regulation on the implementation of endogenous regional policy measures to coordinate and focus sectoral policies in border areas. The programme of development incentives for border problems of the 2022-2025 area shall be prepared by IGRT in cooperation with the ministries and development actors at regional level. The programme is in the final stage of preparation and will be ready before the end of this year. We also added the comments we received on the occasion of the field visits, in discussions with the mayors of border problem areas. Activities take place at different levels at the same time as each other. The Ministry's actions in border areas of concern will be comparable to those carried out in problem areas with high unemployment. The aim is to set out a set of feasible measures and projects that have a real basis for funding and implementation and those which will target development challenges within border areas. In order to successfully address the challenges of border problem areas, measures of other sources or their combination are also included. Our ministry will continue to implement similar measures as it has already implemented, namely the promotion of initial investments, subsidies to start businesses, favourable loans, microcredits, favourable development credits, guarantees to secure bank loans with interest rate subsidies, the promotion of social entrepreneurship in border areas of problems, the introduction of basic and energy efficiency measures in tourism. For all the measures listed in the border areas of concern, we will spend more than €200 million by 2025. The resources are: European funds, the Recovery and Resistance Plan and integrated funds. It's a refund and a grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your answer. You said systemic measures were envisaged. It is true, I remember, that I think it was said somewhere in the spring of 2020 that we will receive this four-year programme by the summer of 2020. If I understand you correctly, this programme will be adopted by the Government before the end of the year and will apply from 2022 to 2025. At first it was, I think, projected from 2021 to 2024. But okay, I agree, but I want this to happen as soon as possible, because, last of all, it is not just Haloze, it is 82 municipalities in the whole of Slovenia, they are in fact borderline or substantially below the average of development in Slovenia. What seems crucial to me is that you actually reach some real agreement between all the departments and that you will provide additional points for all these municipalities and other organisations coming from these areas. Specifically. An invitation to tender for sewage and water to be published in December has already been announced. It may be appropriate to invite the Minister to receive additional points from the municipalities in these areas. Finally, this is really about municipalities that are under the average development of Slovenia. If I may. Dear Minister, have you listed some of the measures, can you give further details of when these individual measures will be implemented after one time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that it is necessary to realize that we are 90 municipalities in the area and that in these municipalities, there is one fifth of all people living in extremely sparsely populated areas. At the Ministry, we are aware of the importance of coherent regional development and the problems of young and prospective migration, so we have already committed and will continue to allocate resources under various measures. Relevant measures for the current year are as follows. First time. The call for liquidity lending in problem areas and border areas, the contractor is the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica, the beneficiaries of the company and the institutions, which were awarded EUR 14 million for 2020 and an additional EUR 8 million in 2021. Microcredit, contractor of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, funds of €7.9 million in 2021. Third time. Measures to increase basic and energy efficiency in tourism, the contractor of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the implementation of €2.7 million in 2019, €3.9 million in 2020, estimated at €16.5 million in 2021 and €4.8 million in 2022. Fourth time. Public call for funding incentives to restart business operations in border areas, the so-called covid call, the contractor of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, EUR 9.2 million in 2021. Fifth. The call for co-financing of initial investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas in 2021 and 2022, the contractor of our ministry, the beneficiaries of the company and also cooperatives, the allocation of €23.8 million in 2021, €8.3 million in 2022 and €15 million in 2022. There were 186 applications received, a positive solution of 101, 7.6 million Euros allocated in 2021 and an estimated 15 million in 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	A nice hello to you all! I hope the minister can make it to the hall. Due to the exceptional circumstances resulting from the covida-19 pandemic, the rules on the balance of state budgets and the compulsory reduction of public debt are temporarily not applicable below 60% of gross domestic product. This fact, of course, is being exploited by the Government. After a long years of painful decline, the public debt increased heavily, exceeded €40 billion and approached 90% of gross domestic product and the budget deficit was 8.4% last year. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Government has spent only half of that amount to deal with the epidemic. At the regular meeting that we are starting today, we will consider budgetary documents that clearly demonstrate that the Government is planning a high deficit and public spending in the coming years, which would not be admissible if fiscal rules were in force. In view of the simultaneous increase in indebtedness and growth with the epidemic of fully unrelated costs that the current government is allowing, it appears that samples from previous governments led by the current prime minister are being repeated. First of all, excessive indebtedness and headless spending, followed by high growth in certain public sector wages and sustained reductions in tax revenues, making them fiscal deficits and unsustainable public debt. Then comes the harsh cutting of consumption, which most affects the weakest and stops economic growth. We are probably still on the safe side in 2022, but for a year after that it is no longer clear what fiscal limits will be. The budget proposals for 2023 only show that the government intends to dance until the music stops. No one knows what its plans and strategies are for the period following this epidemic. That's why in the first part, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: When do you expect the fiscal restrictions of the Stability and Growth Pact to be reinstated? What are Slovenia's negotiating points for reforming fiscal rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. It is true that we are in a time of emergency when fiscal rules do not apply, when we are talking about the withdrawal clause and when neither the Maastricht rules at European level apply. Moreover, we are talking about an expansionary fiscal policy followed by monetary policy. In the context of this monetary policy, of course, the possibilities for debt at relatively low interest rates on the one hand and, on the other hand, the reaction of Europe and European countries to this crisis has been good, effective and we can say here for the whole of Europe that it has responded appropriately. This is shown by the results, these are not personal preferences or assessments. This shows the growth of the gross social product on average – Slovenia is moving up here – this shows estimates of unemployment – also here Slovenia resigns, is among the best – also the number of bankruptcys and so on. Europe has also changed in this respect, and Europe has also changed with regard to the management of fiscal and monetary policy. Europe certainly has the potential for greater control and stability of the monetary system. On the other hand, Europe has also abandoned certain criteria by withdrawing from fiscal rules in times of crisis. Here we can talk about the structural deficit on the basis of which the European Commission does not assess countries today, and this structural deficit is actually calculated. In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, a medium-term framework will be drawn up on how public finances will move, how long they will move, how the deficit will move, or when we will come to terms when the deficit will be no more. There is no ambiguity from this point of view. The European Commission will also draw up country-specific plans at the end of April in line with the Stability Plan, according to the current programme, and will also make clear trends in public finances for Slovenia. Here it must be said that Slovenia is not among the most indebted countries somewhere in the middle. Here it has to be said that the response of the economy is very good, which means that measures have also been targeted in line, the deficit will be reduced so that in 2024 they are already within the Maastricht criteria, it is said that the deficit will be below 3% of the gross social product. With appropriate economic growth, fiscal policy will not burden this growth. In other words, fiscal policy will not reduce economic growth, nor will fiscal policy affect the increase in unemployment. Last but not least, it's not just my words here. The words of my financial colleagues from other countries are similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while. Thank you for all the answers first. It should be made clear here that the first government of the current prime minister has allowed for a high growth in bank indebtedness, which has also been the cause of another bank recovery, which then had to be carried out by another government. This one is now under heavy criticism because she did it, but according to your government, this government had to do it. With Bajuk's tax reform, your government has reduced the revenue of the budget by a billion per year and raised annual expenditure by a billion with Virant's pay system. The second government of the current prime minister has taken care of the second phase, a violent buzzing that has halted and prolonged recovery after the global financial crisis. In the third government of the same prime minister, we are monitoring the same, but unfortunately, the potential patterns of this operation, the public sector debt and wages are rising and the government, with tax laws, is strongly lowering the revenue of the budget. There is only a new Zujf, which can already be seen in certain statements, in the hostile attitude of the government towards NGOs, culturers and all others, which are also referred to by the government and its supporters, unfortunately, as sloths. I therefore ask you in this supplementary question: What is your government's strategy when fiscal rules are reinstated to avoid the new violent balance of budgets that we have received in the past with the so-called Zuyfa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	This government is not planning any new Zuyf. And the crises and the state of things from 15 years ago, if you want, are uncomparable. The sources of the crisis or the source of the crisis are also completely different at the time and today. The financial sector, banks are now in a completely different position than they were then, 15 years ago or 10 years ago. Today we are talking about the robustness of banks, the capital adequacy of banks, the relatively small volume of so-called bad loans. The data that looks at the data, not the data of the Government, if you want data from international institutions, you can find that we are talking about a completely different reality. So I don't even consider comparison to be well-intentioned. Because these comparisons of what happened 15 years ago are like talking about what happened 25 years ago and what happened, I don't know if you want to go back to 1975. From this point of view, professional comparisons simply do not lead to conclusions on this basis. The other thing is that the banking system is in a different state, we have a different source, the crisis is different, today we are talking about the so-called sectoral crisis, then we are talking about the general financial crisis and so on. This government is not planning any other Zuyf, and the situation in Europe is different than it was then, and Europe has learned something from that situation. Today, not to think that the European Commission will come, but to say, look, from tomorrow we need to reduce this. The European Commission will, as I said at the end of April, prepare country-specific reports if, of course, this deadline actually holds, and on this basis, the countries will begin to adapt the public finances to corrupt public finances in 2023, 2024 and 2025, for which this plan will also be made. So these public finances, which are today, so to speak, infected by the crisis, will then begin to adapt. After 2022 this will start to be discussed because in 2022 there is a general derogation clause. Don't scare people with some Ziff. Nothing will happen overnight, and European policy has changed here too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Minister, thank you again. I agree that the reasons differed according to your first government, the second and also today are different reasons, but in all your governments you are raising expenditure and lower revenue in the budget and thus making a hole in the budget. I understand when you explain that the budget will be filled through consumption and through all this, but we both know that through spending the budget will not be filled as it is through other sources. I think this topic is ripe for being discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Carmen Furman will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! In May, I addressed to you a written question concerning the accessibility of citizens to carry out driving examinations. The fact is that in 2014, legislation changed, which also gave effect to a new regulation on the performance of the driving licence, which then excited a number of citizens who do not live in the vicinity of a major city centre. As a result of the pooling of test centres, the Regulation has abolished the possibility of carrying out a practical and theoretical part of the driving test in smaller places, which meant a new, additional step towards the centralisation of our country and, on the other hand, such a change is also linked to the significantly higher travel costs of those candidates who can carry out the driving test from then on only in larger and more remote examination centres. In view of this, I also asked you to examine the amendments to the Regulation in the direction that at least the theoretical part of the driving test could be carried out in those municipalities which meet the spatial and technical conditions. As an example, the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica was exposed, from which I also come and know the situation, and I know that there the People's University of Slovenska Bistrica has all the necessary equipment and facilities to carry out the theoretical verification of knowledge. With such an amendment to the rules, citizens of the municipalities of Slovenska Bistrica, Poljčane, Makola and Oplotnica, which therefore belong to the Administrative Unit of Slovenska Bistrica, could conduct a new theoretical part of the driving test at the premises of the People's University of Slovenska Bistrica. We have already received a positive response by the Public Agency for Transport Safety to have sufficient staff to ensure the implementation of the theoretical part of the examination in Slovenia, but the public agency also complements its reply by stating that the Agency will regulate the material conditions for the implementation of the examination at a new location, i.e. in the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, following the amendment of the regulation for which you are, of course, competent as Minister. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in: Do and when will citizens of the municipalities of Slovenska Bistrica, Poljčane, Oplotnica and Makola be able to perform the theoretical part of the driving test in Slovenska Bistrica? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that on Friday, 12 November, in inter-degree coordination, the rules on the amendments to the driving licence regulation have been transmitted. The driving test rule shall be supplemented by the following elements. First time. Further conduct of the theoretical part of the driving test in Slovenia Bistrica – this answers your question. Another time. Further conduct of the practical part of the driving examination in Ajdovščina, Illyrian Bistrica and Tolmin. It shall also be supplemented by a 30-day period within which the examination committee shall allow the applicant to carry out the driving licence. The period shall start the day following the application for the theoretical or practical part of the driving licence at the administrative unit. In accordance with business deadlines, it is proposed to implement the Regulation at the end of November 2021 and to apply it on 1 January 2022. So in Slovenia Bistrica will perform the theoretical part of the driving test perhaps with 1. 1. 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of State. Thank you very much for your listening, too, to how to bring legislation by change closer to people, because I believe that by amending this Regulation we will make it easier to pass a driver's test for a number of future young drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? No, no, no. I suggest we move on. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. In December 2017, a new Law on the exercise of rights from public resources was adopted in the National Assembly, which amended the provisions of the law in a way that substantially changed the way in which income class limits were determined, i.e. the basis for determining the level of annual entitlements. We're talking about the children's allowance, state scholarships, kindergarten subsidies and so on. Prior to the amendment, the limits of these income classes were the basis for deciding who would receive the right and what resources and who would not be set in percentages of net average wages, and the change fixed the class limits with nominal values. When the law was passed, we were able to hear an argument on how not to make families with the same material situation worse, as was their situation before the change, since the nominal amounts were fixed from the last known average salary for the whole year 2016, the average wage in the net amount was EUR 1,000 30. For individual annual rights, I am interested in the effects of this change on the social situation of beneficiaries. So I'm wondering: Would the beneficiaries of the exercise of public funds rights today be better or worse if that change in the definition of income class boundaries had not occurred? Has this change in income classes produced more poverty, more poverty, in the exercise of rights from public funds? How many millions of euros were saved at the expense of these poor people, if that was the result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, honourable Member Kordish, for this question. I will present the data in two segments, until 2017 and after 2017. Otherwise, it would actually be easier for you to answer in writing, because you would also see the tables. By 2017, as you mentioned, two different rules had been applied to income classes and the level of transfers. One is that the income class has been set as a percentage of the average wage and the level of the income class has also been aligned with the average wage. On the other hand, the level of transfers of child allowances and state scholarships has been aligned with the rise in prices of living needs. Since 2017, the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds has changed that the income classes have been fixed in nominal amounts and the rules on the harmonisation of income levels or income classes have changed by aligning the nominal amounts of income classes once a year with the rise in the prices of living needs. Since 2017, as you stated, income classes, like children's allowances and state scholarships, have been aligned with rising prices of living needs. If we compare the alignment and level of these transfers before and after 2017, after 2017, we can see that, otherwise, the alignment of nominal amounts of income classes with the increase in prices of living needs increases slower than the alignment with the average wage. This comparison shows that the alignment with the average wage would be more favourable, but we must also take into account the exceptional year 2020, when cots and all the consequences of cotvid shocks in the economy and we have witnessed a 1.1% deflation and a high average wage growth of 6.6% due to all cot additives. Taking account of this average height, average wages would result in unrealistic increases, unrealistic rises in income classes and consequently transfers, so that maybe even coordination before 2017 was not the best. Nevertheless, in the ministry, we believe that the alignment of income classes with the rise in the price of living costs is an appropriate way, maintains the real level of these income classes, responds to the reality. What needs to be added, however, is that since 1 September this year it is in fact – not a reduced payment – a kindergarten for another child who is with a child in kindergarten, free of charge and for the third and every next one unconditionally free. In any event, the beneficiaries of these transfers, child allowances, state scholarships, kindergarten payments are burdened. And at other levels, we are also burdening families, so that I can talk here about the opposite process, as you mentioned. At all levels, we support the recipients of these transfers, especially family transfers and also financial social assistance, so that they do not fall at risk of poverty. According to all the indicators of the OECD, the European Commission, we, too, are currently very successful, which does not mean that we have no reserve to do anything else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr Minister, I am more interested in the specific effects on individual recipients, which are not limited to, say, kindergarten subsidies and access to kindergartens, but, as I said in the beginning, there is a children's allowance, there are state scholarships and more. In short, a whole range of public funds rights linked to income classes. I'm going to give you one concrete case, an example of a state scholarship. The figures I will give below are already such as to include inflation or the cost of living. The average net salary for 2020 is EUR 1000 208, according to the old legislation is the first income class and thus the right to a higher amount of the state grant is set at 30% of the average net salary. Today's net salary would be 362 euros, but according to the amended legislation, the nominal threshold for this income class is lower, set at 319 euros. It is said that fewer people are entitled to this higher amount. Even more clearly, this applies to the second income class, where the difference is even greater, the percentage threshold would be EUR 435, the threshold in force would be EUR 382. It is said that the impact of this reform, as shown by the figures available to us, is negative for the beneficiaries of public funds rights. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Do you not have any numbers at your disposal as to how many households have fallen out of aid as a result of this 2017 reform? How many households receive lower amounts than if thresholds were still set as a share of the average wage? How much of the total amount of funds that has been saved in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the quietly squandering of public funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Commissioner Kordish, thank you for this supplementary question. Of course, it is difficult in the oral question to comment on a concrete case which is certain, I can say, spoken for the individual who is in this situation. However, I can also agree with you on the one hand, this amendment of the ZUPJS in 2017 was certainly not optimal. That is why the team and I have also decided to make a proposal for a new novel, which is going to be too much of an injustice, let's say exactly the state scholarships that you have highlighted, eliminated and extended the range of beneficiaries to the state grant. At the same time, it will also propose different types of enforcement of rights from public funds, which will primarily eliminate the injustice of families with multiple children when older relatives are given a State grant because the child allowance of younger relatives is taken into account in their conversion. So I can agree that the 2017 novel was certainly not optimal, which is why we now have in this team, even in the coalition contract, we have committed ourselves to this, a prepared proposal for a novel, which will also eliminate a number of injustices in state scholarships, including in children's allowances. Well, in implementing the reduced payment of kindergartens, we have already imposed a great burden on families on September 1st, and by doing so we demonstrate that we are aware of the need to support families in their reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. My parliamentary question did not refer to the current social reform of the Government at the beginning or below, which will also allow additional incomes for families with 4 000 euros a month's net salary. This means that the middle class, in some cases even the rich, will be financed from funds that should be designed to save poverty. We in Levica think that this is a completely wrong approach, but it is, I can say, almost a logical continuation of what we have seen in the past. For example, in the case of a subject addressed by my Members' questions, this is a change in income class boundaries. In my parliamentary question, I have really put the fight against poverty first, the change in income classes from percentages of the average net salary to nominal amounts, in the way that beneficiaries of public expenditure are entitled to these funds to a lesser extent and to lower amounts than they were, because the thresholds have been set in such a way as to capture fewer people than they would have. Of course, we would like to fix this in Levica and raise these income classes, which brings me to my second point from the point of view of administration and governance of the country itself. The fact that nominal amounts have been written into the Income Thresholds Act means that, at least in this area, politics is completely without concept. If you are serious about setting up not only a social system, but any system in the country through legislation, as the devil of the cross, you will try to avoid entering nominal amounts into the legislation, which you are really interested in, is the mechanism by which a particular system works, and that is what it must do in the law. For two reasons, both for the sake of administrative clarity and simplicity and for the sake of social justice in Levica, we would like to hold a debate on the response of Minister Cigler King to the topic of income classes and how these income classes for the exercise of rights from public funds have been established. They have direct consequences for the children's allowance, state scholarships, kindergarten subsidies and, of course, the only right thing to do is to ask us, both in epidemic conditions and in post-epidemic situations, when the global crisis is knocking on doors, and to answer these questions socially, solidarity and justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 18 November 2021, in the framework of the votes. Maša Kociper will ask Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Mr. Dikauchič, a lovely greeting in my name too! I refer to you once again the question of the European Prosecutors' Delegated, because this story after all this time, after the Minister of Justice, your predecessor, has therefore resigned, has not yet received any epilogue. On the contrary, the matter is complicated and stalling. Slovenia, which is the only country that has not yet appointed its prosecutors, is hampering the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the European Authority, whose task is to prosecute crimes that are detrimental to the financial interests of the European Union, and for which it is essential to start working as soon as possible, in particular because all countries have made substantial use of EU funds during the epidemic co-existence period and it is essential that this spending is also controlled. By acting on this issue, our country has also, because of you, Mr Minister, placed itself on a very infamous list of those which the European Union considers to be problematic countries, in addition to Hungary, Poland and who we are now. The fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office cannot start work because of Slovenia is a huge shame to me. With this and the question of non-financing, WE have, in my opinion, put ourselves on a very unreputable map in Europe. That the matter is still legally complete, not to say anything else, I'll say ridiculous, but you've taken care of yourself lately, Mr. Secretary. First of all, the Administrative Court in a dispute initiated by the candidate for European Delegated Prosecutors has settled their actions and resolved their actions – I think that lawyers know what a solution means – the decision of the Government, making the first procedure for the selection of European Delegated Prosecutors a failure and bringing the matter back to trial. As you know, the Government then agreed to the refugees that it could not execute the judgment on the basis of a re-examination. Once such a decision has been taken by the Government, these two prosecutors will re-apply to a recommitment and you, if the media data hold, have rejected the re-candidatures of the two prosecutors because the first call is still pending before the legal judgment. I don't understand what the government and you, as its minister, are doing. Let's at least decide which cord you're going to follow. With regard to the invitation to tender for a European Delegated Prosecutor, I would like to ask: Will you insist that it is no longer possible to insist on the first invitation to tender, since the second invitation to tender is under way, or will you make a different decision? I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. On my appointment as Minister, I stressed that, during my term of office, I would respect the Constitution, the legal order and the decisions of the Court in a consistent manner, and I would do so. The procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors has several stages, as you know. Also in the national part of the selection of candidates there are actually several bodies involved, of course each with its own competence. Much has been said about this, and I would not repeat myself in this place. In all the complications that have occurred in recent months in the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, I have always followed the direction of the Government, at a time when the Administrative Court dismissed the first action of unnamed candidates, and finally in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Court, which has decided to remove the decision of the Government and bring the matter back to the Government. With regard to the decision to issue a decision on the rejection of candidates, I would like to emphasise the following. In its judgment, the Administrative Court decided to abolish the decision of the Government of 27. 5. 2021, by which the Government has concluded that a public invitation to apply for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors has been issued 9. Ten. 2020 is already considered to be a failure by law, which is why the State Prosecutor's Council's proposal to appoint two European Delegated Prosecutors has no legal effect and has therefore not been made aware of it, and the Administrative Court has brought the matter back to trial. In the light of this decision of the Administrative Court, the Ministry found that, with regard to the proceedings initiated, it had called on the state prosecutors to submit nominations for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors of 9. Seven. 2021 is pending a decision in the case referred to in Article 129 of the General Administrative Procedure Act that the Authority first examines the request and rejects it by decision if the same administrative case is already under administrative or judicial procedure. Since these are procedural assumptions to be identified by the Authority on the basis of an official duty, the Authority must, of course, reject such an application even if it is later demonstrated in the procedure that there is a reason for its rejection, but only until a decision of the first stage is issued. Therefore, if the administrative authority finds that an administrative procedure for the same administrative matter has already been initiated, it shall reject the later application without going into question on its merits. Taking all of this into account, the Ministry also issued a decision rejecting the applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Dear Minister, I believe that for what right of an ignorant citizen who listens to this, what you have just said is completely incomprehensible, and it is understandable to me. And it's understandable to me in exactly one way. Crazy complication and excuses not to call these two Delegated Prosecutors. We both know that's true. What I asked you is what you're going to the government now, what you're going to do, given that the government has even decided that it can't execute the judgment because of the renegotiation. Thus, the Government considered the previous call for an end and found that it could not remedy the previous decision, because a new call was launched when these two same people re-apply to this second call, apparently the only one existing in the view of the Government, and you reject their role. Who are we making a fool of?Oh, my God! For me, this complication is nothing more than an indicator of where we went in this country. What can we Members, opposition and citizens do when the government does not respect laws? All the professions were united in this. All the professions. Even in the legal profession, you know how, sometimes so, sometimes otherwise, one such, one different interpretation. Here, however, the government's decision not to comply with the ruling of the Administrative Court has greatly upset the general public. And after this decision, the government has also been totally mocked by the entire public and the two prosecutors, and in particular by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, who is waiting for the candidate, by you now rejecting the application of these two. What can they do?Oh, my God! The State Prosecutor's Council has appointed them, as required by law, and you are now challenging them in all ways to run for office on this call. I ask for an answer as to what you consider to be the legitimate way to conclude this invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	As I've already said, there are reasons for rejection, and I've explained them to you before. As has been the case so far, I will continue to act in accordance with the applicable legal order and decisions of the courts. I'll stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	You do not comply with the legal order in force [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Just a moment, Madam Ambassador. For a magnetogram: you have a request for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	I'm sorry. I'd use this business option, but I got a little upset and I wanted to say first that you're not playing in accordance with the legal order in force. If that's not clear to you by now, then God help you. In accordance with the legal order in force, it would be necessary to appoint the only two Prosecutors proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council. The government would get to know them and the matter would go to a higher level, to a level of the European Union, where the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office has no choice at all. It is said that this institution has left the entire appointment and full confidence in the appointment of the right candidates to the Member States. This procedure, as far as this is concerned, is clear. The lawyers on the left and the lawyers on the right hand side agree on this. The entire professional public has pointed out that non-compliance with the Administrative Court’s judgment is inadmissible and that the Government, as the institution of the executive branch, would, by refusing the enforcement of the judgment, directly and clearly violate the rule of law and the constitutional right to effective judicial protection. This position of the Attorney General's Office was agreed upon by every lawyer in this country. Since you can no longer answer, I propose to the Vice-President that we hold a serious debate on what can be done in this country when the Government and its Minister do not respect the laws themselves. What can you do, say, two candidates, the previous invitation to tender has been revoked and their application for a new invitation has been rejected? Where do we go in this country, what kind of legal order is this, and what respect for the rule of law and the rule of law? I hope that we will hold this debate and that even the members of the coalition will agree that both in this matter and in the UK, this is a direct violation of the Slovenian legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal on Thursday, 18 November, in the framework of the votes. Otherwise, there will be a debate similar to your proposal, also on Monday at the interpretation. We're moving on. Mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues in the debate room, distinguished minister, Mr. Janez Cigler King! During this period, we have found out who was on the list of recipients of funds under the call for investment in development or in raising infrastructure for the care of the elderly, so-called REACT-EU. That was 17 institutions. In Styria, the House of Retired Ptuj was selected, and we saw, on the other hand, the Government included in the development programme plan for the period 2021 to 2024 the construction of the dislocated unit of the House of Retired Šmarje near Jelša Kozje, which provided additional capacity for 49 users. It's also said at the Styrian end. However, I would now like to point out, Mr President, that at the end of Styria we also have a mega facility for the care of older citizens. Of course, I am talking about the House of Danice Vogrinec, which is an extremely modern, development-oriented institution, a public health institution. And here, as you know, the European Alliance for Older Persons has also received a full recognition for the period 2018-2020 as the best home of the elderly throughout Europe. His management, his expertise, has also recognised Europe more widely. Of course, these recognitions are somehow not a sufficient condition to provide quality services for the elderly, that is clear. There are some recognitions and, of course, some investment cycles are needed for the construction and proper modernisation of this infrastructure. As you know, the total capacity of this brand, which we call Danica, is 809 beds. We also have a regulation on these minimum technical requirements for social security providers. I think that from the current business somehow now Dom Danice Vogrinec cannot provide investment funds. That is why I am asking you here, Madam Minister, because at the institution they have applied for this call for a React-EU in connection with the reconstruction of one block on the coast and the dislocated unit of Tabor, including Duplek and Maribor. They were not selected on the React-EU. My question is this: Will there now be a letter from the Ministry on your part about the intention to build these missing dispersed units? And if this is possible in the integral budget itself, as I said, in the House of Retired Šmarje near Jelšah? I think there was some mistake, though, if I say so, about React-EU, so I'm really asking you for answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of the Mags. Kaloh, thank you for that question. As Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I definitely recognize and face the need to rebuild or build houses for the elderly and other social welfare institutions and their dislocated units in Maribor with the environment and placement in the plans for the development programmes for 2021-2024. Perhaps we should first mention in connection with this response call, which is purely fresh. The Commission has published – also on our websites and also publicly communicate – selected applicants. 17 institutions are with 18 projects that have applied for the funds offered from React Fund of €93 million. In Maribor and its surroundings, the following projects have been carried out independently of this React Fund in the field of social security investments, or in the implementation of the following projects: The House of Danice Vogrinec has restored the kitchen and laundry; the co-financing share of the Ministry is good EUR 2.5 million; the House of Older Citizens has received funds of EUR 700 000 for the construction of a temporary accommodation unit, which is part of deinstitutionalisation; then the same call for Pensioners' House Ptuj received funding of EUR 1.4 million for the daily centre. Ptuj’s pensioners’ home was also successful with its announced project to adapt the existing infrastructure of the home of pensioners due to covid-19 on the React call, amounting to EUR 12 million. The home of the elderly Ruše will be built by the concessionaire and there will be 150 cities; also Slivnica is in the vicinity of Maribor, including 150 beds. And there's Hajdina, including the concession, even for 150 cities. There is also an investment in the experimentation and reconstruction of the facility to increase capacity at the House of Dr. Jožet Potrč Poljčane, in the Unit of Slovenska Bistrica, amounting to 4.1; almost 4.2 million euros. So a few of these investments are open or have been made. The investment documentation, I must say, for this last project of unit recovery and reconstruction in Slovenska Bistrica is still in the process of validation and the envisaged completion of the development programme plan in 2022. Now I'd like to go back to this call for a React. 93 million have been disbursed, and the projects reported were more than once. Therefore, the applicants were additional EUR 100 million. This indicates that the area has certainly been underinvested, somehow neglected, there has been insufficient investment in the past decade and beyond. The covida-19 epidemic has actually exposed the situation of these homes and somehow we have all managed to motivate the operators together to prepare themselves well, prepare documentation, all the necessary conditions, because these 100 million euro more than was available, are all projects with building permits that have good documentation, but in some details the Commission has obviously decided not to get the full number of points, but the differences are extremely small. I can assure you that I have already provided the key ministers of this government and the President of the Government that we will do likewise, and I can assure you, as we have done on the school infrastructure, that somewhere in the beginning of next year, we will be able to make sure that all of these are able to be reported — because they have good documentation — all that is necessary — we will carry out our projects. Because it is necessary for four-, five-, six-bedroom rooms to be set aside in order to provide decent single- and double-bed rooms so that the infrastructure in these homes, which are most necessary and bear the greatest burden of the epidemic, improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The next one is Mr. Just Bevk. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar, and the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Both ministers are absent, so I ask the Member to say whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! According to the number of confirmed infections, Slovenia has already become the country with the largest number of confirmed infections per million population on 4 November 2021. On the European map of infections, we are black because we confirmed more than a thousand per million people after a seven-day average. The situation is similar to that of the Baltic countries. The number of confirmed infections and postpartum patients in need of hospital care was then only increasing. According to today's data, a thousand 8 patients have been hospitalized in Slovenian hospitals, of which 226 are in intensive wards. There is room for hospitalization for ordinary patients, as at the peak of the outbreak last December there were about a thousand 300 patients in hospitals. However, the situation in intensive therapy is much more critical, where it will be much more difficult to provide additional capacity, both beds and appropriate medical equipment, as well as suitable trained personnel to provide the most difficult observant patients. If Slovenia is unable to provide a sufficient number of places for vigilante patients in need of intensive therapy, it will have to apply for international assistance; either there will be qualified medical teams for us, or Slovenian observant patients will be taken to other European countries for treatment. The co-ordinator for observable hospital beds at the Ministry of Health Robert Carotta has already confirmed for Radio Slovenia that they are also negotiating with other countries to help care for patients in need of intensive treatment. Thus, the Ministry of Health should have already started a process of cooperation with Italy, Austria, Hungary and Germany, to which Slovenian obituary patients should be transferred in case we exceed our maximum capacity in intensive departments. In the light of the above, I am interested in the following: Does Slovenia, in this case, intend to apply for assistance under the European Civil Protection Mechanism and the EU Resc programme? What form of assistance could Slovenia request in providing additional hospital facilities for observant patients? Are the discussions already under way with neighbouring countries and Germany on the possible relocation of Slovenian visible patients under the European Civil Protection Mechanism? Does the Ministry of Defence intend to activate the Role 2 mobile military hospital and military medical personnel in order to provide additional hospital beds for the patient? Since the Ministers are absent today and the Rules of Procedure allowing the Minister 30 days to reply in writing, I will ask you to answer me at the next regular meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Ministers will therefore answer orally at the next regular meeting. We're moving on. Dr. Franz Duck has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for allowing me to ask the absent Minister a question. The question is, of course, concerned with the Act on Pharmacy Activities, which is only in the State Council, which is more of a lobbying platform than the second home of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, has experienced veto. How's the Rules of Procedure going? The debate will take place on behalf of the Ministry of State Secretary for Forte, the Committee on Health of the National Assembly, where the State Secretary for the Forte presented the views of which she stated that they were the positions of the Ministry. During her presentation, she read literally some lobbyist pamphlet of Chemofarmation and Salus. Our members representing the public interest have been identified as lobbyists. At the same time, she lied about the directive at a time when Slovenia presides over the Council of the EU that the directive prohibits vertical integration of grossites and pharmacies, which is not true. In short, it has in fact turned out that the Ministry of Health is representing the interests of the two largest wholesalers, one in foreign ownership, one in the possession of hidden, mostly obviously Slovenian shareholders; and not in the essence of public interest. We Members representing the public interest, but we are lobbyists. In short, it's a time of political madness. Is this the official position of the Ministry? That's the first question. I can honestly say that as a citizen and a member of the Social Democrats of Maribor, people are stopping me on the road and telling me what will happen to the Farmadent. The second story is, even though the Maribor drugstores are 3. The Chamber of Pharmacy, where membership is compulsory, is on the lobby of the two companies mentioned above, wrote this year that they advocate this vertical link. If you look at Erar, since 2003, both Maribor and Ljubljana pharmacies have actually contributed almost a quarter of all the contributions made by the Pharmacy Chamber, that is 23%. That's why my second question is: Does the Ministry consider that membership in a chamber that does not represent the interests of its members would no longer be compulsory? In any case, something that has existed in Maribor for 50 years, Farmadent, which has created five generations, Minister Vizjak would say – stupid taxpayers, should now be destroyed because clearly there is no public interest in what this government would represent. Of course, I request an oral response at the next 28th meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer you orally at the next meeting. The next one is Mr. Jura Ferrjan. He will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members and Members! Dear Minister! One of the most important priorities of the current government coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the care for the elderly and the establishment and improvement of conditions for a peaceful, safe and dignified third life. For this purpose, a number of concrete measures and solutions have already been taken within the current mandate of this Government. The full-time pension has risen from €581 to €620. The lowest pension and lowest invalidity pension also rose. Much has also been done with regard to the coordination of pensions. It was carried out both on a regular basis and an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. There was discrimination against farmers' insurers. It is also important that those pensioners with the lowest pensions, more than 300,000 in Slovenia, also received 2 solidarity allowances totalling 260, 460 and 600 euros. All pensioners and pensioners also received €200 and €100 as part of tourist vouchers. I think we all know that there are several laws in the parliamentary procedure that will affect not only the elderly but virtually all the inhabitants and residents of our country strongly, some indirectly and some directly. Here I would point out the Law on Long-Term Supply and the Demographic Fund, certainly also the novels of the Law on Income, the Law on Debarcation and I could still list, and I will stop at this point. In short, these are system laws that essentially regulate very sensitive areas and actually affect everyone who works and creates in Slovenia, not least who live in Slovenia. Dear Minister, with regard to this question: How many Slovenian pensioners and pensioners received as part of the mitigation of the covida-19 epidemic? I also want to know: What measures does the Ministry or the Ministry plan to improve the situation or to make the third life period truly safe, peaceful and dignified? I'm also interested, Mr. Secretary-General: What is the movement of pensions or the growth of pensions in the Republic of Slovenia over the last ten years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Commissioner Ferryan, thank you for this very important question. I may first point out that, among the three main priorities of this mandate, with my team as the most important concern for the elderly. The covida-19 epidemic, of course, highlighted this priority even more and caused us to be even more active in protecting the most vulnerable, where the elderly belong. You asked me four specific questions. I'll try to be as specific as possible. The answer to the first question is thus to clarify that in the context of caring for the elderly during the covida-19 epidemic in the area of pension and disability insurance, two measures were intended only for beneficiaries of pensions and invalidity benefits. The first measure was the payment of a single solidarity allowance for pensioners and invalidity benefits, in the sums referred to by you, in the first wave paid on 30 April 2020, totalling EUR 66.5 million and in the second wave paid on 1 January 2021, a total amount of EUR 67 million. A single solidarity allowance was also paid to the recipients of occupational pensions, totalling EUR 11,000 in the first wave and €11,000 in the second wave. The answer to the second question is from the point of view of pension and disability insurance, and I would like to point out that in recent years a number of solutions have been adopted that have affected the social security of pension recipients. In addition to regular system reconciliations of pensions, additional extraordinary harmonisations have been carried out, which have led to a much higher level of harmonisation of pensions in recent years than would have been the case if they were coordinated only under the system law. With these coordinations, we have therefore come across these most vulnerable recipients of pensions who deserve decent benefits, a decent age, because they have done a fair job of their active age. Therefore, this harmonisation measure, systemic or exceptional, captures all pensioners and thus improves the social security of all pension recipients and disability benefits. We have also earmarked more resources for the payment of the annual allowance. Some systemic changes that have affected the area of pensions in the past year and a half must be highlighted at this point in the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2I, which reduced the transitional period for raising the percentages of the so-called mini pension reform from 2019. Those who accepted this mini-retirement reform did not foresee an equalization of the dose percentages for men with those from women to 63.5 in 2025. At the beginning of the term of office, this coalition was committed to reducing this period and the percentage for men will be equal to 63.5% already in 2023, thus equalising the dose scale by sex. It's a big step. As a result, a faster increase in the dose percentage will result in a faster increase in pensions next year. A new amount of the lowest guaranteed pension and a new institution of the lowest invalidity pension is also established. The previous solution has already been mentioned by you, and this lowest disability pension is extremely important, as beneficiaries of disability pensions are extremely vulnerable members of our society. Pensions of insured persons, which were largely secured for a narrower range of rights, also increased. The new ZPIZ-2H brought solutions to the inclusion of the accumulated period after the previously applicable legislation in the non-compensation period and the decision to align their status to farmers who in the past paid contributions at the same level as it was prescribed for a wider scope of rights, but were secured for a greater scope of rights, in a way that they also had a wider scope of rights, since they paid the same sum not least. There is much more to it, honourable Member. Now we're somewhere in the middle of another answer, maybe you'll give me a chance to keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	Mr Ferrjan has a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you again for your word. Dear Minister, I thank you for the first part of the answer to my questions. In addition, I will ask you to touch on the period of the last ten years and on the movement or growth of the pensions of Slovenian pensioners and pensioners, and what are some directions for the future. Allow me before you answer the question that I will somehow conclude my debate or ask this question of the Member with the idea that it is probably the only or at least the greatest guarantee that in the future the pension will be higher, that today's salary is higher. And we must all strive to create better working conditions, that we are internationally competitive, that we also have a comparable tax environment. And those measures that this government has drawn up, which are already in the parliamentary procedure, they also aim to do so, and when we talk about the amendment of the Income Act, when we talk about the de-de-irocracy package and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Commissioner Ferrjan, thank you for this opportunity to continue with the answers in the complementary work. So your question, third in a row, concerns the movement of pensions in the last ten years in the Republic of Slovenia. I explain that the entire structure of pension movements in the Republic of Slovenia can be found very precisely in the annual reports of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, which are published on the website of the Institute. However, I would point out that, for example, the average net retirement rate increased by 10.12% between 2011 and 2020, noting that the material situation of pensioners between 2010 and 2015 has deteriorated due to intervention laws restricting or impeding pension coordination, as the real value of pensions has decreased during this period. After this period, the material situation began to improve again slowly. However, when I walk in the field with the government or with a team of ministries, I get extremely positive responses to all interventions, i.e. intervention assistance to pensioners or recipients of pensions and invalids, and to systemic changes that somehow restore that dignity to people who have been deprived of some of the wrongs. So that I don't run out of time, question four, projections of pension movements in the coming years. PPIZ-2 provides for regular harmonisation of pensions in which all pensions must be adjusted annually in accordance with the law to reflect changes in the level of the average monthly gross salary and the average increase in the price of living expenses. It also foresees the possibility of extraordinary harmonisation, which we have already witnessed in this mandate, which can be carried out depending on the positive economic growth found in the more favourable socio-economic conditions. This year's economic growth, if identified, can thus serve as a basis for determining the exceptional harmonisation of pensions in the coming year. Economic forecasts for Slovenia are extremely beneficial if we all step together and really endure this difficult time when the virus is extremely widespread in the population, so that we do not have to close the economy and all other parts of society. I think that we can do the most to keep the labour market in such a condition as this, we record very low rates and unemployment figures if we allow businesses to work, that people will have jobs, that people will also be paid more wages, that higher contributions will be paid, then we are on the right track to have safe and higher pensions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, according to your information, 660 decisions were issued in the school year 2021/2022 to provide a temporary companion for children in primary schools. These decisions have been drawn up by the steering committees under the Children's Guidance Act with special needs at the Education Institute. These decisions provide an escort for the basic and extended part of the educational programme on which the person is targeted. The Ministry also states that the only criterion for the approval of an additional system of work is the accompanying job, this temporary one, that the school should justify not having its own staff to do so. At the same time, your ministry, you claim that you have no information on how many children are provided by an escort and in what proportion. I ask you, Madam Minister: Why does the Ministry of Education publicly claim that it does not have data on how many beneficiaries are provided, in accordance with the decision on the direction of the escorts, and how much of the job, if these data are clearly visible by your Ministry of Education to the additional system of work of the escorts? These are the kind of consensus I have for each school in Slovenia separately. I ask for cumulative information – and why not: How many beneficiaries are assigned, in accordance with the decision on direction, to accompany and to what extent? Why does the Ministry of Education of Accompaniers not ensure in accordance with the guidance decisions, i.e. the basic and extended educational programme in which the persons with the decision are targeted? And what's important, Madam Minister: Which body of your ministry, in what composition and on what legal basis will it decide which direction decision will be implemented with regard to the provision of the escort and in what proportion? In the congregation from which I come, students have 28 full companions on the basis of decisions. You guarantee 18.39. From 0.25 jobs to 0.5 jobs, 0.65 or how much. How can the Ministry and body of the Ministry decide beyond the decision on direction prepared pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and on the basis of the Act on the guidance of children with special needs? And how can your ministry give you an official answer that it does not have data on how many children are provided by escorts if these data are clearly given to each school when it requests? This is signed by Boris Zupančič, Head of the Primary Education Sector, Directorate for Preschool Education and Primary Education. And it's signed by the head of mag. Polona Šoln Vrbinc, head of the Child Education Sector with special needs. Why don't you make this public? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Cigler, first of all, thank you very much for the correct questions raised by Members in the manner you have told us in advance that you are interested. That is why I will be able to answer you very specifically, specifically. Let me read most of it, so I don't miss any important details. As far as your first question is concerned that we do not have the data, I must say that, for the first time in this interim period, we have actually set up a specific monitoring system, so that I can now tell you the information you are asking about for the current school year. If the response of our department has been given in the way you say it has recently, then I sincerely apologize to you for such a response and I will make sure that I also get the explanations on our side, why so, because this data is now, as it is said, with this school year and with the application in place. This app can, of course, enable us to do exactly what you are exposing yourself to. Systematic monitoring of all approved and rejected jobs on the basis of the individual role of the school. And cumulative data are monitored by workplaces and by the number of applications submitted. This year's school year, 237 applications for temporary escort in the proportion of 233 posts and 165 applications for permanent escort in the proportion of 240 posts have been processed and approved. There are four other applications for a temporary escort in the proportion of 5,5 jobs and 12 applications for a permanent escort in the proportion of 8,5 jobs. These are new roles. No applications were rejected, except for a few applications which were incorrectly submitted, but were then granted after the re-application. So much for your first question. Your second question why the LAG does not provide escorts in accordance with the guidance decisions, i.e. for the basic and extended educational programme in which the persons with the provision are targeted, is our next answer. The Mišš provides assistance to permanent escorts to all pupils and pupils who have the right to a permanent escort in the decision. The decision on the orientation of children with special needs, with the right to a temporary escort, has been taken in schools in such a way that the child receives physical assistance in the activities he needs. The school provides assistance with its employees financed by the Ministry. The activities in which the child needs help shall be determined by a specific expert group, which prepares and then evaluates the individualised programme, with the involvement of the parents. If the school cannot do this with its employees or the child needs another person with it, then the school asks for an additional staff, which the Ministry also approves. In doing so, the Ministry does not weigh professional arguments, but of course we also have to scrutinise the school's staffing and organisational structure. This is also what we are competent for in this decision. In short, it's not our job to weigh professionally, but let's focus on what it's like to be humane and organizationally filled. Which body of the Ministry, in what composition, on the basis of which authority decides which direction decision will be implemented with regard to the provision of the companion and in what proportion, you have also asked. Each school has its own adviser, who reviews the compliance of the school organisation with the standards and standards and also coordinates systemisation. The only criterion for the approval of additional systemisation of the temporary post is that the school is justified by the fact that the physical assistance of the temporary escort cannot be provided with its employees. The legal basis for the approval of additional staff on the basis of the application of the school is laid down in the rules governing the standards and standards for the implementation of individual programmes in education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have told me nothing new that I would not read from your ministry's papers. Once again, I ask you to answer me: How many of the 660 children, give cumulative data, not personal data, how many have a guaranteed companion as a whole and how many, by percentage, are 0.5, 0.35, 0.25? Madam Minister, the decision on direction is prepared on the basis of the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs. The decision on guidance must be fully implemented by the Ministry because it has been drawn up by the Commission to guide children with special needs, otherwise children cannot be equally involved with other fellow students in the primary school programme guaranteed and financed by the State under the Constitution. Therefore, it also guarantees and finance the specific conditions of the escort. And I don't understand if the decision makes it very clear that the child's right to take a walk, why isn't it guaranteed? How can you justify that one child, in accordance with the rules and regulations governing the implementation of the primary school curriculum in primary or special school, has one commission on us an unknown legal basis in the Ministry of Education, decided differently than provided for in the guidance decision? This is not the case; the decision is the law; it must be implemented in the interests of the child. And if the decision is implemented in this way, in another way, it is an arbitrary and discriminatory act, because discrimination also takes place among children. Madam Minister, we have already visited your ministry several times, and when we have explained the role of escorts, I think it was clear that it was important that this relationship functioned, that it was productive, that the child should be assisted, that the child should be accepted by a companion, that the companion should know the child. And in this area you should respect the legal order, the Constitution and the welfare of children in Slovenia. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The information I read to you is information that can be reliably made public. But I also understand your question, to which I do not now have a concrete or precise answer, because my colleagues have not prepared it for me. We may also have to respect personal data protection for a reason, but we will check it out, and in case I can give you this very specific answer to your question on an individual basis, we will also prepare it for you. As it is said, I do not have this answer now, and I can also explain this with this reason of respect for personal, personal data. As far as our decisions are concerned, how and what I told you. We get based on the expert committee then to be evaluated on our side, where we follow the indicators that are more related to the school's management work itself, but at the same time I will also say that we have actually approved all the applications that have arrived this year. Maybe you're asking something back, for what matter, it needs to be cleared up. For example, if there are individual questions, we would also advise and ask if individuals can turn directly to their specific case, and we will consider how we can help or explain these individual cases. What I can say right now is that we have finally established one system with which we can now fully monitor, and I believe that this will also help to make up for all these open issues and also understandings, which you have been warning yourself all along. And it's also right that you do this, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly address this issue of children with special needs. 660 of them are here with a temporary escort, where the legal order and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are apparently in breach. And we can't move for the better. And if I said that we have 660 children with a temporary escort, how can the Ministry not answer me, for example, that there are 50 whole escorts, 100 of them have 0.25 jobs as escorts, 10 of them have 0.5 jobs as escorts. It's a simple matter for primary school. And there can't be a question here. Above all, how can you allow yourself at the Ministry to interpret and implement legal guidance decisions in a different way in your own way? This is the law that is done in this way, and there is no other way. I would just like to say this again, Minister, I think that people from other municipalities who work with children with special needs could confirm, where such a child has been provided with a full-time job decision, the progress of the child has been clear and evident, we have benefited the child, his family, the school. Where this is not done, there is irreparable harm done to children. Also classmates, because normal class can't work. How the ministry, with all this intellectual capacity, I also consider you, Madam Minister, can't understand and violate the rights of children in the Republic of Slovenia. And the caravan's moving on. We warn, we warn. That's what the schools are warning us about, parents. There's kids in the back. Madam Minister, I don't understand why, at the same school, with the same decision, one child can get 0.25 jobs as an escort and another even a job as an escort. However, both guidelines provide that they are assigned to the primary and extended programme of this school as a whole. See, that's our problem. Madam Secretary, that's your problem. I hope you save him or take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Now he has the word, Mr. Janez Moškrič. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar, who is absent. Therefore, please state whether you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	An oral response at the next session, so I'm gonna stop him. Your Honor! In the Republic of Slovenia, public health is available to all people, and emergency medical care is provided to all, regardless of the level and status of insurance rights. At the same time, the relevant legislation and regulations define the individual’s care and responsibility to act in and outside his work in a responsible and safe manner. It is specified in detail how the employer must take care of the employee and what are the responsibilities of the employee and the self-employed. Moreover, if they endanger their lives and health or the health and health of an individual by their conscientious and irresponsible conduct, we are, are, are, in fact, liable and at risk, risking the loss of certain health rights that are guaranteed to us under the Health and Health Insurance Act and other voluntary insurance that are possible in or outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. If all employers, self-employed persons and employees are aware of this, since the sanctions are detailed in Articles 76, 77 and 78 of the Law on Safety and Health at Work, we are not aware of this in the event of responsible behaviour at the time of the covida-19 virus. If I show you plastic, here's my map from my previous job as a sole entrepreneur, I had to have a safety statement with a risk assessment. If I did not, Article 76, first paragraph, tells me that, with a fine of between 2,000 and 40,000 euros, I would be punished for a violation of such a nature. Then there are safe work certificates, which every employer and worker has to regularly update, then this is about protective equipment, in my case of helmets, seat belts, suitable work clothes, footwear and so on. This is all necessary for a job in this Republic of Slovenia. If any of this were to go away and there was an accident, it would be very wrong. On the other hand, we have a covida-19 virus where we can protect ourselves with a mask. That's why I'm asking you: Does it make sense to act also in the event of an infectious covida-19 virus disease and to introduce the responsibility of an individual who has failed to take into account measures to infect and safely interact with covida-19 virus or has even knowingly violated measures and thereby gravely endangered his or her health and human health around him? I have in mind a partial reimbursement of treatment costs or other forms of participation. I want to know: Is such thinking also in other countries of the European Union, since we can understand from the media that some countries of the world are seriously thinking in this direction? That's why I'm asking you for an answer. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much. You'll get your answer at the next session. Next up, it's mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. It will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi area a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very well greeted, Minister and other colleagues and colleagues! My parliamentary question will address the issue of the asphalt base in Wroteba, mainly because both the European Union and our country are working hard to invest in green technology. And that is why we must exert every effort to mitigate any pollution, any deviation from what would be harmful to human health. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for showing his affection or willingness to help with this problem during the summer months, as he visited the congregation of Šempeter-Vrtójba and the civil initiative which he participated in the talks and also brought together interested countrymen and country women in the area. And, of course, we exchanged a number of problems and various data at the time, so that the minister could also approach this issue, and then he also found out at what stage the documents were at. In short, thank you so much for this part. From that day on early summer until today, many things have happened. The initiative continued and new facts emerged, particularly in this part, to clarify the environmental impact assessment and impact of the environmental permit. The competent services have indicated that an environmental authorisation is not necessary because the operation of this plant is of a smaller capacity. However, it has certainly been shown that, in the opinion of the civil initiative and in accordance with the Regulation on environmental interventions, an environmental impact assessment procedure should be carried out. This was the first fact to suggest a change. In addition, air recordings suggest that the asphalt base was operating before the deadline of 1967; and therefore, according to the initiative, a building permit should also be obtained. Now I'm interested. What is the role of the inspection services in the resolution phase? What did the inspection services further find that this issue would somehow be resolved and moved forward?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Madam Member, thank you very much for this question. Yes, it is true that, some half a year ago, when I started the procedures and also my involvement in this particular project, including by visiting the congregation, I share the civil initiative with you and with you, and with the country's concern that there are no harmful effects and effects on the health of the neighbouring country and countrymen in the operation of such a facility. It is very common that such buildings, which were on the outskirts or more or less outside the settlements, appear as a result of the expansion of settlements at once in the middle of a settlement or very close to houses and others. And, of course, it starts to disturb the landscape. The awareness of people has also been strengthened over the years. What was acceptable to a wide range of people 50 years ago is now unacceptable and new demands on such facilities as this concrete asphalt base are emerging. Of course, there is much in the congregation. For by spatial planning, the municipality places such objects in a space or, for purpose, in a specific area, enables or does not provide such facilities. Therefore, it is part of future activities related to this asphalt base also, of course, on spatial planning or placement in the premises of such facilities in the environment as in this case in this municipality. At the Ministry of Environment and Space we also received further letters from the civil initiative Vrtojba, which sent a letter on 13 October dealing with the problems they face due to the operation of this asphalt base of Vrtojba, and attached a report Quality of life in Vrtojba, produced by the International Society for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of Alpe Adria Green. The Ministry examined this report and found that it includes information on the state of the environment, namely soil pollution, groundwater pollution, noise, emissions, air matter and dust particles, as well as the need for an environmental authorisation of the asphalt base and the rules and measures used in asphalt bases for reduction. Of course, we responded to this civil initiative by letter 8. 11th this year. However, part of the report relating to the environment has been withdrawn from the environmental protection agency because it is the responsibility of the environmental agency. Therefore, if very narrowly, the Municipality of Šempeter-Vrtojba has already changed its destination for land in the area of asphaltic base in the municipal spatial plan. The Ministry of Environment and Space will also ensure that the operation of the base in Vrtojba within the framework of the environmental inspection powers of the Republic of Slovenia is regularly monitored in order to comply with all environmental regulations, so we have already had several inspections in the past. On inspection, for example at the end of last year, a commitment was also made that the asphalt base does not process or use recycled asphalt mixtures. In view of the indications in this 2018 Meteration Report, it is essentially an 80-ton asphalt base produced in 1973. The debtor also made a written statement to the inspector concerning any changes to the environment. The collector, this is the company which has this base, in a written statement, has ensured that no changes to the environment have been made on the asphalt base for which a preliminary procedure would be required under the regulation. In the light of the findings of the extraordinary inspection, the interpretation of the legislation in force and the statements made by the undertakings, we find that the operation of this base does not require an environmental authorisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you. Certainly, what you said is true. Civil initiative and the municipality have read about this response, but in particular the civil initiative considers that the same part of the answer has not been given, or the asphalt base needs a building permit. For, according to the 1965 Decision, it is indicated in point 1 that the permit to allow the use of grammes on land, as shown in the accompanying documentation, and point 4 below, is that before the entry into force of part of the asphalt base, a road undertaking must apply for a technical inspection and authorisation of use, which shall also prescribe any other technical protection measures. And in this part, in fact, because the aerial footage shows and because the asphalt base has only this permission and nothing else, the civil initiative considers that the inspection did not provide sufficient concrete answers in this part. And they want to know what they're going to check in on this; even given that the CPG Collector has provided an answer that there is no usable permit for them in the archive, not in the archives of the administrative unit, nor in the archives in Nova Gorica. These aerial recordings should, in their view, be made more and more effort should be made to achieve the right results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Dear Member, I can assure you that at the Ministry of Environment and Space we will do our utmost to respond to all the details of the civil initiative that highlights this problem. As I said, we have sent a response on 8 November, i.e. last week, and, of course, below, if we have not satisfactorily explained all of these matters that you have raised now, of course, I ask that the civil initiative raises the need or the requirement for further clarification of all these details regarding the validity of the permits from the previous, I can say, millenniums, not just centuries. And we will also answer, even through the interpretation of construction legislation, what is considered to be a obtained building permit, that is, construction of which year before. Because you need to know that the rules have changed a lot at this time, were complementary and upgraded, so certain objects of an older date have been taken into account in one way or another; and we will also give this interpretation if this is still a problem. As far as formality is concerned, we will respond to everything, so I ask you to ask for further clarifications based on our answer of 8. 11. However, I assure you that with inspections, this is said to be permanent and consistent, we will monitor the implementation of respected regulations regarding the limits and other operation of this asphalt base, because we are aware that this problem is burning there. We will therefore continuously monitor this and at the same time act in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed measures, limit values or any other derogations from the applicable legislation. On the one hand, we too want to solve this problem. I agree that many times certain objects that were acceptable decades ago are no longer acceptable. The key to this, as I said, is the congregation. And the congregation has already begun these procedures. Indeed, there are many problems with the rights acquired, since there is an economic operator operating there in accordance with the applicable rules, valid permits. It is not possible to change, and it is not possible to withdraw this authorisation. Of course, we will closely monitor that it respects all the rules in its operation, and this will maximumly protect human health as well as people's exposure to negative impacts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Madam Ambassador?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	No, thank you. I would just like to thank you for your answer and for your concern for the health and life of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	It's not a practice. You can do it outside after you do your thing. We're moving on. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, who is absent. Please provide a written or oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm staying on environmental issues. The climate crisis is getting louder. It is right to speak out about all its factors. Industrial livestock also represents one of the major global environmental pollutants, as it contributes, among other things, to a significant share of greenhouse gas emissions. As an agricultural, as an economic sector, it is therefore one of the key stakeholders in deepening the global climate crisis and its local impacts. In the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, livestock farming between agricultural sectors is a problem, of course, both in the light of the environmental, climate crisis and, consequently, calls for effective solutions in the area of a fair transition for farmers. In this regard, I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Economy and Food to answer the following questions, and I ask him to do so orally at the following meeting: In what way does the Republic of Slovenia take into account in its climate policies the environmental and climate damage of mass livestock? What is the commitment and will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopt towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the livestock sector? How do the commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change apply in the area of livestock farming in Slovenia? At the current climate summit in Gasgow, what commitments were made by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of carbon footprint reduction through the livestock sector? What measures can be taken by Slovenian farms in line with the guidelines for a fair transition? Thank you very much for the services of the National Assembly. I would like the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will be next, asking the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! In recent days, the port of Koper has received considerable media attention. There has been a great deal of talk about another type of political staff and cleaning carried out by this government. Less was said about land developments in the development area of Luka Koper, which are of interest to Hungary, and of which, because they were apparently once promised, they do not want to say good-bye. I want to know: Are the indications that Hungary is once again in a position to purchase 46,000 square metres of land that are not owned by Luka Koper but are covered by its spatial plan? This is the land currently owned by Inter-Europeans, and the main owner of Inter-Europeans is the Post of Slovenia, which is a state-owned country, and the government has all the interferences over it. All the land we are talking about is covered in the spatial plans of Luka Koper, so both in terms of its development and in terms of the development of Slovenia are very important, as Luka Koper is a window into the world. These Hungarian appetites aren't really new. They had already been promised by SMC's coalition partner, who ran the government; and in this most important infrastructure project, the second track wanted to bring foreigners, Hungary. In the SAB Group, we have already stressed that it is shocking, with which it is easy to give up such large lands, although we know that Luka Koper’s land is missing. In the SAB party, we strongly oppose this and I am interested in: What will you do as an infrastructure minister who should defend this window of ours into the world, this port of ours against other appetites so that things can continue to develop normally and effectively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go. Just a minute. Mr. Starovic, if you do. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. As for Luke Koper: The port of Koper is not just a window into the world, the port of Koper is a door to the world, because through the window we can only look, through the door we enter. And I stress this over and over again how important Luka Koper is not only for the Slovenian economy, but also for the economies and development of other countries because of this, for example, because especially for the automotive industry and so on, Luka Koper is a really great opportunity. I believe that by being so flexible and so on, it will be strengthened, especially after we build a second track, which we are building fast. As far as the land itself is concerned. See, it is true that the Ministry of Infrastructure does not have information on the possibility of purchasing 46,000 square metres of land owned by Intereurope by Hungary and so on, which are not part of the port area, but are covered by its spatial plan. We just have to be careful here. Let me just say one thing. Last year, we signed an agreement with the Municipality of Ankaran and the country bought a cassette of 5A, a large land purchased by the state. The negotiations lasted for many years and were concluded last year. This moment is still the property of the Republic of Slovenia and this is being discussed – we already have a request from Luke Koper to give it to the concessionaire, which is Luka Koper, and this is now under discussion, but this is not related to it. About Intereurope. Look, we don't have this information, and it's hard to say what's on it. It's hard to say because the Ministry doesn't have this information. I think now, if Luka Koper has Intereuropa at his disposal, I don't know because it's economic operators. But surely it is necessary to provide Luka Koper with additional land, additional space for her development. And not only in the port area, but also outside the port area. That's why we're talking about the back terminals as they can at Sezhana's. Tell me this, if the Slovaks and Austrians or the Germans, Tengelmann, have seen the opportunity to develop a large logistics center in Sezana, I believe this is also an opportunity for Luka Koper. Why shouldn't Luke Koper also have a large icy logistics center in the Sežana area and a space in the Beltinci area? Since Luka Koper already owns about half of the land, there is a need to consolidate the remaining land, build what is necessary, and build a large logistics terminal that could develop an additional port of Koper. So we're not just talking about land in the port area that Luka Koper needs them there, but also beyond that. See, more materials from Luka Koper are currently stored in Graz and Beljak than anywhere in Slovenia. There's something I don't understand right now. Why we didn't give Luka Koper the opportunity to store here, here we had this logistics and also we could have production activity and so on. It's not just the dumpsters. It's about raw materials that you can then process, you have a factory with you, anything else. And now they are developing, as I can see – for example, they are building large logistics centres for North Adriatic ports in Beljak. And we really need to get to the point where we can get Luke Koper as our only door to the world facing west, if you want. The northernmost port of the Adriatic is simply to enable it to develop seamlessly and usable land and a quick link towards the central work, towards Central Europe through the second track. The second track will not be enough, but additional infrastructure projects will still be needed on the railways to make this freight transport faster. As for these things that you mentioned about Intereurope and this, we do not have this information to answer without speculation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament would like a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Complementary question. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you turned this window into a door, and I think this door needs to be extended. I am also pleased that you are aware of the importance of this area, which is currently in the port area, but also of the potential for the development of the area, including the logistics centre, where a great logisticsist was sometimes Intereuropa until it was also sucked down by human resources speculation. But I think it is right that you, as responsible for this area, also take a look at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, connect yourself to where the Post, which is the majority owner of Intereurope, belongs. This, in fact, brings everything together in a translated sense in the governance of the state and government every time, because it affects human resources and the rest of the policy in this regard. It would be right, Mr. Minister, that since this is what we're talking about, I don't know, we need to ask around. [[…]] I don't think it's useful that he's going somewhere private and he's going to decide tomorrow that he won't let it, he's not going to include it, and then what am I going to do? It's better that this remains under the influence of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Yeah. It's just too little: that's what we're talking about. It's too small for the facts themselves to give us this real information. Do you understand? I've heard that somewhere, too, you say, but for now we don't have information that would be true. But I can say the thing. I don't agree with you saying that every time the government controls Luca Koper. No! No! Management with Luka Koper Slovenian State holding company. And we have to insist on that. The simple government is not the one who can say anything about the development of the port of Koper, but we have a Slovenian state holding company that appoints supervisors, then administration and so on. This is why we also have a corporate governance system in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is because each government cannot influence the governance policy of Luka Koper. Since the management of the port of Koper is more than that, I don't know who the minister of infrastructure is, but it's about having their strategies, their plans that aren't from year to year or through four years different or different. Look, I can tell you that I'm gonna be monitoring the situation on these lands, and let's see what it is. But just for the record, it's too little to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Starovic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	I have to say, I'm not happy with the answer. Therefore, in accordance with the rules of procedure of our National Assembly, I propose a general debate at the National Assembly. Because it's still weird for me. There's talk and it's sensitive to this area. It was spoken to Hungary years ago, looking for contact with Hungary again, when the second track was already closed, it wanted to draw them back into the matter. But putting land at the border in an area as important as that of Luka Koper, if that's true, is scandalous. Ships that we or our ancestors have experienced a severe period under foreign boots are especially upset and angry. That's the word, my dear minister. Why in Slovenia alone do we even think about giving land to strangers, even in such a sensitive area? We fought for it, not just now in the end, all the time, through history, to be our master on our land. In the envisaged sale of land that is indirectly in the hands of the State, this is possible for you to have. Because we have an impact on human resources policy and also on state holding. Therefore, I also propose that we also discuss the sale of land to foreigners in the development area of Slovenia's Luka Koper, our gate to the world, at the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Now he has the word, Mr Boštjan Koražija. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I have a question for Mr Poklukar, and then I would ask him for an oral answer next time at the next meeting. The covida epidemic has also brought additional problems in the field of student distress. I would particularly like to point out the link between personal and mental distress and the learning problems of students and students, to which I have also warned your colleague, Mrs Kustec, Minister of Education at the previous meeting. And we can also talk about mental distress at different levels and there is definitely a connection between the learning problems themselves and the mental distresses which unfortunately this epidemic of covida has deepened, also raised them again to the surface and things are much more problematic and chaotic than man imagines. In general, when we talk about the mental distress of young people and children, we need to be very specific. More professional staff, more clinical psychologists, would be needed in Slovenia. That's why I'm going to ask you as Minister: How do the Ministry assess the situation in the field of clinical psychology? What kind of problems do they report to you from the field? How many clinical psychologists are missing from your assessment? Are you planning to change the financing of specializations and clinical psychology? If so: What is the timeline, at least in what time can we get a basic number of additional specialists? And I'm going to do a little more of this with numbers. You all know or know this special phone line TOM, which has, in fact, been addressing its own, anonymous, problems of young people and children for 30 years. In fact, according to their study, compared to 2015 to 2019 in 2020, there were 72% more young people and children who were thinking or thinking or even threatening suicide, which is actually frightening and not only necessary in 2020, but actually reactions and early reactivations to help those young people who urgently need help. In view of the state of the epidemic we have in the country, I fear that this situation will become more familiar with the mental health of young people and children or that young people and children will need more professional support from clinical psychologists who are unfortunately lacking in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer orally at the next meeting. Please turn off the microphone. Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. He will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Last week, together with the Minister of Health and the presidents of the two representative health and social services unions, you signed an agreement on salaries and with the signing of an agreement, you committed yourself to a better evaluation of salaries for about 200 social and health professions. This means that around 35,000 employees in these two activities are expected to receive a better salary of between 4% and 24% for the month of December. In the SAB, of course, we welcome this. However, we are interested in the fact that wages will increase and that in the budgetary positions that we will be considering this week there are no visible funds, in fact: In what way will the Government provide these funds? We are talking about some 120 million euros, and it seems fair and fair to us in the SAB that if the government comes to an agreement with someone with financial implications to provide funds for this agreement, then we have a feeling that a deal has been made with the fig in our pocket. So I want to know: In what way will these funds be provided? Especially with the fact that we have somehow heard very much this, I will say, perhaps even vehemently, that the government agrees to raise the rates of care in pension homes by 5.6%. And that represents, I'll say, instead of the Christmas Eve, as the coalition has repeatedly promised Christmas for 500 euros, they got one slap for 5.6 percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of the Mags. Reich, thank you for that question. I can say at the outset that I would certainly not use such a word for one raise in wages when, at the time of the agreement, there was an extraordinary festive atmosphere, both on the side of the representatives of the two unions, the key health and social services unions, and on the other hand also us with colleague Poklukar. Together, we have assessed that this agreement is indeed necessary on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is extremely welcome for all of these professions in which our society is actually based, especially in such trials as the covid epidemic. As Minister for Social Protection, I will answer only for the area of the area of which I am responsible. I must say that I am happy and proud still that, with the festive parish and the near signature, we have made an important sign of an agreement on the necessary, necessary rise in wages for the professions that have been and are indispensable all these years before and are so much more indispensable in dealing with the epidemic and are the central basis for the effective functioning of the social protection network in our country. I am talking, of course, about employees in nursing homes, employees in work centres, labour training and protection centres, employees in home aid and social work centres. Since the beginning of the mandate, our key priority, in addition to a more efficient and fair labour market and more lively social family transfers, has been a comprehensive concern for the elderly. In fact, this agreement achieves two objectives: a fairer payment for the work done by all those who are employed, as well as for the protection of residents and residents in their homes for the elderly and special welfare institutions which, of course, need intensively demanding care every day. The work of social workers and health care workers is not just a job. It's a mission. In jobs where employees carry out basic and social care, most employees are paid up by 3 to 4 wage classes. However, in the case of healthcare staff in social security institutions, salaries will increase by 4 wage classes. Like, mid-term nurses for the weak 200 euros gross. I think there is a broad consensus in our society that these lifts are too necessary and certainly too late, but better now than never. In individual workplaces of professional workers in social work centres and nursing homes, i.e. social worker, psychologist, who is very lacking, home aid coordinator, will increase wages by two wage classes. So it's the most burdened professions in health and social. The salary raise was necessary and the consensus was therefore wide. That is why these negotiations were record-breaking. I think we've all recognized the urgency of this pay raise. And now to draw on the funds for this raise in wages, for this 37 million euro, the share of social care. The higher wages, as we have already presented together with the unions, will be drawn up at EUR 17 million from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the amount of EUR 4.2 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and in the difference of EUR 37 million from the provision. Together with the unions, the Community of Institutions, which has been constantly present at these negotiations, we have estimated that no one wants to raise the supplies, but that we have exhausted all other resources to the extent that we can and that this raise of ups for a maximum of 5.6 per cent is justified and reasonable, and that, finally, the residents and residents will receive better care than the more satisfied employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Reich has a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u207	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive response. Of course, we all agree, no one issues the need to improve wages in social protection, because it is really the garage professions that are poorly paid. This is also why homes and protective institutions face shortages of personnel, especially in border areas where the same service can give the provider, the employee, a substantial better salary, and this, of course, is by no means a problem for us. We are simply problematic about this arrangement so that the supply price will be passed on to the user. So that part of this increase will be passed on to the user and we are essentially problematic and alerting. We have repeatedly warned that when the parties to the government coalition were in opposition, they have repeatedly promised Christmas houses for 500 euros, and now somehow we get the feeling that the guardians of the homes for the pensioners or other beneficiaries of these services are being given an incentive of 5.6 per cent from the heart. Of course, this means €35, about, for a two-bed allowance in the basic care room, but we need to know, because this year's pensions have only increased by 2.5 per cent. For example, for a pension worth 600 euros, it amounts to 15 euros a month, and so this raise, on one side of the pension, does not cover the cost of raising the allowance, and we remind you of that. We want to know: How will this work out? Once again, it does not seem fair to us that if the Government is negotiating with someone not to provide funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u209	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member of the Mags. Reich! The main point around which I think there is a broad consensus is that the salaries of all employees in social care, health care, too low and that they have been too low for too long. That is why we have recognized the necessity of this raise in wages, and this raise in wages is not small. For example, I mentioned the case of a middle nurse in a nursing home who will be paid for when our agreement is also signed and realised, now initialled, raised by the poor 200 euros gross. In fact, nursing staff in nursing homes will increase their salaries by 4 wage classes, or in social protection by 3 to 4. It will also increase by two wage classes to those working in social work centres and social workers in nursing homes. So this is crucial, this is the first point on which there is a broad consensus. It is precisely because we have all come to recognize that this raise in wages is necessary if we are to provide quality care and, above all, a decent or more dignified payment to all those who are more than a profession, including the mission, that we must raise these wages. You yourself have highlighted a big, big problem or a big challenge in the border areas. I'm home alone from Koroška and I'm sure too many of these personnel are leaving for a better payment across the border. That's exactly the motivation to raise your pay. I can say that when I visited the southeastern statistical region last Thursday and Friday after this parish, the responses to the salary rise were good and it was acknowledged that they were necessary. Of course, the representatives of the tenants in the holy institutions raised questions about how much this provision would increase for them. When I explained to them that the increase in wages was divided between the health treasury, the budget and one part into a maximum of 5.6% increase in care, I somehow realized that this maximum increase was 5.6% justified and reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Given that the subject is very important and that it can have very important consequences for the accessibility of homes for pensioners, especially those in need of more expensive care, that is to say, if it costs more than a thousand euros, it means an increase of 5.6 per cent by 60 euros per month. So this is a very important topic, and I will also say, no one has asked users if they agree with the rise in service prices. Of course, we propose that this very important topic be discussed, especially because we are deeply convinced that if the Government and its partners reach an agreement that has financial implications, then it must provide the means to do so, rather than transfer the obligations to the users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Now Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor. She will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings to the Minister! Our rights are never safe and fought once and for all. When we thought that women's rights were something that in a civilised society of the 21st century could no longer be questioned, we got the third government of Janez Janša, which pushes us into a group of multi-urban countries and thus into a very suspicious society of those who see the role of women in a somewhat more traditional way; it is said to be a machine for birthing or cooking. At times, even women's rights to education and electoral rights are questioned, and we hear even calls for derogation from the Istanbul Convention. The resolution on the national programme for the prevention of domestic violence has not been renewed for a decade, which is a rather eloquent indication of the importance of this topic. All of this further deepens the poor attitude toward women who are already doing so in paid-up care jobs and do a lot of unpaid, extremely important work at home. The epidemic and the official policy of this government of women's distress is only deepening. Femycid is still not adequately identified, considered and defined. During the epidemic, domestic violence increased by 30 to 50 percent. The victims are mostly women and children. For the crown of all things, the right hand, along with the RCC, is increasingly interfering with the daily political themes, at the so-called Meetings for Life to ban the artificial cessation of pregnancy. Their obvious example is Poland, where a 30-year-old woman recently died, who, despite severe complications and completely deformed fruit, did not undergo an emergency medical procedure because the fetus still had a heart. And let me warn you, there was still a woman's heart back then, but it stopped because she died of sepsis. And this woman wanted to have children, and I'm sure she'd still have them if she hadn't been killed by ideological blind people. She left her husband and nine-year-old daughter at home. From the 1990’s onward, women’s rights to abortion are more severe every day, so the rich went to neighbouring Czech Republic to perform abortions, and the poor died after unprofessional interventions by various custodians. Just as our grandmothers died during the complications of too many pregnancys, our daughters evidently face such fates. That's why I want to know: Is that the pattern you're looking for? How can you let the Roman Catholic Church run demographic politics in Slovenia? How can you allow the Church, which must be separated from the State under the Constitution, to interfere in such important matters as constitutional matter relating to human rights, women's rights? To change the Constitution, you need a two-thirds majority in Parliament, and you ignore it, and you don't have most of it, but you just do as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mrs Tomić, for your question, which, at least in large part, does not even fall within the competence of the ministry I am leading. But I'm still going to try to answer one part. Legislation falling within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the Family Code. This provides that spouses are free to decide on the birth of children. And at least as far as we observe, we monitor, this right is still strongly guaranteed in Slovenia and is not in the sense that it would not be further. The spouses have the same rights and obligations as the common children. This is set out in Article 57. That legal provision governs the exclusive interaction of spouses with regard to the decision on the birth of joint children. However, health measures in the exercise of the right of free decision on the birth of children are governed by the Law on Health Measures in the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children. However, that law falls within the competence of the Ministry of Health and provides that a person has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and that all the possibilities that help them to exercise this right must be made available to women and men. For more detailed questions on the provisions of this Act, respectable, please refer to the competent Minister of Health. As far as the situation and conduct of the RCC are concerned, I explain that, in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the State and the religious community are separate. Religious communities are equal and their operation is free. The legal status of religious communities is regulated by the Law on Religious Freedom. The Act also does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but rather the Office for Religious Communities. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u217	Yes, of course you quoted me with some articles, and that's how it should be. You run a ministry that has family, social affairs and equal opportunities besides work. Here I hope we both understand that there are equal opportunities for women. And women today in Slovenia, believe that they are losing equality strongly. You mentioned a free decision on the birth of children. Why then the Institute of Honesty, homeland.si, for the Archbishop of Zore says that the sanctity of life must be taken into account from birth to natural death and so on. You know, yes, under Article 17 of the Constitution, life is untouchable, but under Article 55, a woman has the right to decide whether or not she can have that child, whether she can provide him with a decent life or not. And then, in front of the maternity wards, where women go to stop unwanted pregnancy, nuns pray. I'm asking you nicely, isn't this meddling the Church with secular affairs? And they put pressure on women who are already in trouble. And what will happen if they are convinced of how this life they carry within them is sacred. I hope we really don't want times to happen again when there were Catholic orphanages, where we know how much suffering, sexual abuse and murder were experienced by poor children, orphans and how they were treated like bastards by the same people who are talking about holy life today. Holy life is a dignified life, even from birth, when you can assure your child that his life will actually be untouchable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Ambassador Tomić, for this addition to the question. The gender equality sector is an extremely important part of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities I run. I am very proud of my colleagues in this sector, who are extremely busy and constantly searching ways and ways to balance the opportunities of women and men as much as possible. And if I may continue, in this sense we also have quite a few programmes to promote, I can say, greater integration of women at all levels of our society. We also have a number of programmes in the Presidency that highlight and encourage women to activate, as well as a conference that points to the contemporary problems that are, say, also the result of an epidemic co-infection. For example, lockdowns have caused more online presence, audiovisual conferences and consequently more violence, online violence against women and girls, and we are also talking about this in the Presidency. This is an extremely important part of our work. It must also be memorable to recognize all women who, in most cases, work in professions that care for our most vulnerable in care, social care, social protection and so on. [[…]] So on their backs we actually survived this epidemic, and that is why I am a respected MEP. Rajhu also responded to you regarding the urgent increase in their wages for a more dignified wage, for a more dignified life. I conclude, however, that when the right to freely decide on the birth of children is ensured, a right is guaranteed in both directions. I don't think it's wrong for parents to decide whether or not to decide on that life in the context of the free right to freely decide on the birth of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Of course, it's okay if your parents choose to live, that's funny what you just said, Minister. As a rule, parents always choose to live. Exceptions are always when a woman chooses to be alone, either to be unemployed or to be beaten at home by her husband, or to have already tortured children at home and for God's sake do not look at the world as if some pink cake with a pair of ointments upstairs. Life is cruel. Of course, you were talking again about underpaid nurses and how we were all on their shoulders, and the supplements were given to those doctors who were almost not there and were causing waiting types. We don't have any medical staff today, because the nurses prefer to work in warehouses and wherever they are, for cashiers of different department stores. You know, it's so amazing how you turn things around and pretend how wonderful everything is. On the other hand, your Members of the New Slovenia, Members of the SDS, go to the Meetings for Life and take to those women who are not so happy to have a parliamentary salary and a warm home, take the right to protect their fruit from what may then happen to them in life. You know, this case that happened in Poland when co-thinkers of these dark desires killed a young woman who already had one child and a husband at home is unacceptable and should be a red suit in front of our noses, especially before yours, who are currently deciding that something like this would never be allowed in Slovenia. For you know that the consequences are tragic and terrible for mothers, for their lives, even for little children, who are innocent of nothing, that they have come into such a world. That is why I really demand that in this National Assembly we hold a debate on how we came to some re-catalysis of our society in all areas where values are overvalued and where they actually lead us at a time that was once when our grandmothers — my grandmother gave birth to 10 — survived five of them, and barely. And you know, we don't allow our daughters such a future and we're going to fight to preserve those rights that we in this generation had in the middle. We must not allow women's rights to be challenged in any way, endangering the lives of poor mothers who, like Polish women, will have to carry out pregnancy interruptions abroad and the poor will die in the lullabys. We're not gonna let that happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you very much. That was the first question from the second round. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be posed by the mag. Andrej Raj, Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! On 19 February this year, at the initiative of the opposition party, we called for an urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and discussed the suspicion of irregularities in the implementation of Dars' public tender for the establishment of an e-vignette sales control system in favour of Slovakia's Skytoll. At the end of this January, Dars decided to choose Skytoll from Slovakia for €15.7 million and the audit committee also verified this decision. Of course, we are interested because we have learned from the media that an annex of EUR 900 000 will be concluded to complete this business, with the final total price of EUR 16.4 million. I'm interested, Minister, in your comment: Is the annex justified, and why did it come to him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Great question, given that you were the initiators of that Public Finance Supervisory Commission meeting, and on the basis of the following, the State Audit Commission found that there was nothing wrong with us, that we had chosen the tenderer or that Dars had chosen the tenderer — how long ago? – I think about 15 million euros, while the other bidder was 33 million euros. So that's basically what this is about. Under Dars as the operator of the network of toll roads and also the contracting authority of the establishment of the new e-village system itself, all deadlines for the establishment of the e-vignette system were initially laid down provided that the contract with the selected operator was signed by 1 March at the latest. Because the contract was only signed by 27. 5. 2021 For reasons other than Dars’s, but not justified complaints from unelected tenderers, which were subsequently rejected by the State Audit Commission, all deadlines would consequently be suspended for almost three months; this means that only 27 e-vignettes could be sold. 2. 2022, if in fact most of the annual vignettes were sold already in the form of stickers. For unjustified reasons, we have come into this delay and the invitation to tender has already been published for a month in September. Do you have any idea how long the contract was because someone wanted a successful bidder who was 33 million euros instead of 15? And we were also doing a media story in the National Assembly. The delay was due to complaints about the complaint and the proceedings were withdrawn. But I'm glad we'll be with 1. 12. have the opportunity to purchase an annual e-vignette, and this also comes from the Tolling Act. See, deadlines for the exercise of control – the problem was that the deadlines for the exercise of control could not be reduced in full but only in part. And let me also say that the contractor was prepared to reduce the individual hands for sure, which, of course, requires a series of changes, to put in extra work, sometimes to hire additional equipment. Of course, an additional payment was also requested by the contractor. Before signing the annex to the contract, Dars also obtained the opinion of the law firm on compliance with public procurement law and the opinion of the contract engineer, who reviewed the offer from a technical and also cost perspective. But see, there is something else that needs to be stressed: by reducing the possible contractual deadlines, equal treatment of users of annual vineyards will be achieved. For example, in e-vignette, it is possible to return a proportional part of the value of the annual vignette. In addition, we will not have a double and thus ineffective exercise of the toll control itself, which would at the same time result in the loss of revenues from the vineyards sold. At the same time, the stationary equipment for toll control will also be able to be used immediately after delivery, as due to the dual system, the control equipment was up to 1. 2. 2023 would be completely useless and would nevertheless have incurred the costs of amortisation itself. See, in the light of all the above, I consider that, in the event of the conclusion of this annex, Dars acted economically in order to establish the e-vignette system in accordance with the legal provisions and in a manner that would be favourable to the users of the toll network. However, the legal provision is 1. 12 and then 1. 2. See, we have a public procurement system that was the same as it was, and in the meantime we had KNJF meetings and additional pressures and media coverage only because of the choice of a cheaper provider. In the end, you were looking for the culprits. Who's to blame? At KNJF was the first question for the minister: Will you step down if it turns out that everything was wrong with this public contract? And now it turns out it's not wrong. Will someone else step down? But, basically, the public procurement system in the complaint lasts too long. I'm sure, and that's why these delays occurred. It took six months to get this contract, six months. These things have been dragging around for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u227	Yeah. For viewers it is necessary to say that I was the convocation of this, i.e. on behalf of the proposer, and that we called the meeting because the invitation to tender was written in such a way that no tenderer met the conditions of the tender and that, as a result, the invitation to tender was modified so many times in the stage of the tender that it corresponded to one tenderer selected to the tenderer. And that's what we've been up against. As far as other matters are concerned. You yourself said that we basically have a public procurement system that is relatively ineffective in this sense because it allows complaints. I am surprised that you did not somehow foresee this additional deadline in the future with regard to these consequences of appeals to procedures. It also seems to us that you have repeatedly pointed out that we in this sense have an opaque and unpredictable system that the offer itself did not provide for an additional deadline to offer a reserve. Therefore, somehow, we conclude or fear that because of one of these, I will say either negligence – negligence may be a serious word – or one overlooks that this has created an annex of EUR 900 000, which someone who should be responsible and competent has not foreseen these few months of delay in the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u229	Look, of course, he didn't see it coming because it was impossible to predict – right? The government was appointed on 13 March and we immediately started writing the Vinjet Act. We had it here in the National Assembly of September, and that's when we started the call. The parliamentary process itself takes so long, very long: from public hearing, to that, to the third, to the fourth, and that is all. It wasn't possible before, unless your government started the e-vignette and it wasn't. If your government would have started sooner, then we could have taken it away a lot sooner. That's why Dars came into this time loop, not the government, and I understand them. Why isn't that on the contract? Look, I don't know, maybe you can call another Commission to oversee public finances about what you did last time, and we'll save the world. And we won't. So why there have been complaints and why it's been decided for so long, I don't know, and I regret it. But do you know that you could drag yourself for two years, just like the caravans dragged? That's even worse. It could have dragged for two years. However, sooner or later this public procurement system, which we have in the Republic of Slovenia, will have to be changed, and I agree with that. [[…]] Because the procedures are too long, prices can already go up in the middle and so on. If I finish, I'll be happy, and I'm glad we'll be 1. The 12th had an e-vignette. Look, in 14 days we're going to have an e-vignette, and we took it down essentially in this government's mandate very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The questions and answers to my questions, of course, open up a number of debates and, of course, I ask and propose that this proposal, my proposal, be discussed at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Especially because this subject, which concerns Dars and is under Dars' jurisdiction, needs to be discussed. In fact, it is not exclusively the Minister who is not necessarily the Minister of Infrastructure who is responsible for giving answers in the field of Darsa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will ask the Minister of Health, Janez Poklukar, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greeting on my part, too! At the 16th meeting of the Health Committee on 30 September 2021, at which a second consideration was held of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, State Secretary Alenka Forte announced amendments to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities. To this end, according to the Ministry of Health, a working group is already in operation, which is expected to close its work in a short time. To make it easier to understand and verify the words spoken below, I quote the Secretary of State: “At the Ministry of Health, I can say, just in the coming weeks or so, a group to amend the Law on Pharmacy, a very broad group, and once it has finished its work, we will present to all stakeholders a comprehensively revised Act on Pharmacy Activities, which will address some of the dilemmas that may still be open.” When considering the novel on the parental committee on 30 September, stressing that only a provision relating to the amendment of Article 26 of the current law and the abolition of the prohibition of vertical links remained in the adopted version, State Secretary Alenka Forte said that it was “the purest capital interest of the two major municipalities”. At the meeting of the parent committee on 5 November, where the opinion on the request of the State's decision-making board was considered, it pointed out that non-conclusion with the abolition of the prohibition of vertical links does not mean defending the abolition of two of its own suppliers, but simply that the ownership of both own suppliers must be changed. The latter I understand simply as defending the interests of individuals of private law, which is foreign, in order to take over the strategic supply of medicines in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister in the light of the above: Who are the members of the working group appointed to draft amendments to the Pharmaceutical Act? When, if not, will the working group finish its work? Is your position the same or different from that of the secretary of state? And the third time: Can you identify yourself to the question whether you are advocates of public pharmacies, which are part of the public health system, or its total contradiction, which was understood by the Secretary of State, and this is to give priority to the private pharmacy system?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Primož Siter as the last Minister of Finance of Mags. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u235	Good evening. Thank you so much for saying that, President. Good evening, Minister! In Slovenia we currently have one such interesting situation in the area of real estate tax. In fact, we do not have a real estate tax as such, since it has been retained by the Constitutional Court, and the valuation of real estate taxes still applies under the Citizens' Tax Act or we have beneficiaries who own real estate that are now in the meantime, in some such interesting, strange way, to say a tax-free limb. My question is actually very simple: How does this law, which should in fact not apply, deal with beneficiaries or owners of real estate? How many people don't pay taxes for this tax exemption? In fact, as we announced in our announcement, the well-respected minister noted: In 2020, how many taxpayers were exempt from taxes under Article 162 of the Civil Tax Act? This provides that the property tax paid for the possession of buildings is provisionally exempt from the first owners of new housing or housing and garages for 10 years. Second question: How much would the income from the property tax be increased at the annual level in the event of the above exemption being lifted? For the first 10 years, it would not be: How would this be known or how much budget income would come from this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you very much for that question. We do have a citizens' tax law. The citizens' tax law provides for a property tax on the property of buildings. Here, as you mentioned, the first owners of new apartment houses or apartments and garages are temporarily released for 10 years. In addition, other provisions of the law should be taken into account, namely that this tax is paid only from real estates – and here I am talking mainly about housing and housing – which are more than 160 square metres. Which means, from this point of view, that most natural persons, that is 86 percent, own one residential property in Slovenia, a few percent, and very little, especially about half of the housing units, exceed the threshold of 160 square meters. Thus, 70 percent of the residential properties of natural persons are exempt from this tax. Here is the assumption that each natural person has one property, which is not always the case, but this tax is also paid from another property or, if you want, with us better known than weekends and so on, meaning in other words that it is also a relatively modest financial effect. For example, €8.2 million in 2020 and then in 2019 was slightly higher, by a good million and a half. This represents between 0.5 and 0.7 percent of the congregation’s income. We're only talking about congregations. It is said that less than one percent of the congregation’s income, which means that 70 percent of the housing fund — physically speaking — is basically exempt from the housing fund of natural persons. Now you're asking me a hypothetical question about what happens if we abolish all these exemptions and reliefs, then it's actually a new law. There is, of course, another matter to be said here before we have any new hypothetical, theoretical law that is true that we also have progressive tax rates here. From this point of view, I would say that progressive according to the value of 0.1 to one percent are these rates. It is said that this financial impact is relatively low and relatively modest. The entire real estate fund shall be evaluated. This is valued by the Geodetic Authority of Natural Persons. But now you have to essentially see the assumptions for what you will tax, which all properties will be, and whether they will be taxed theoretically all, regardless of who has them, regardless of what social status is, regardless of what progress is, whether progress or not is progress and so on. And theoretically, of course, then you can calculate how much tax you actually get. I have to say, I don't have that information here. But I did the whole way how to do it: the Geodetic Authority has the entire fund calculated and then you play with tax rates. But to change this law is, of course, that you can terminate these 160 square meters, you can play with new degrees and then you get a financial effect. I must say that the Ministry of Finance does not have this in its plan to make any changes to this law. But it's an old marriage. I think 30, 40, 50 years old.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Minister, I asked about the current state of affairs with the existing legislation, which is largely non-functional in this area, because, as I said, we have a limbo; on the one hand, the law is reserved and on the other hand, the other, which is in force, should not be in force. My question was, in fact, very simple — how many of these people are in this confusion? You served me a number, I don't know, 70 percent. I'm sure you and the Ministry have a number for how many people there are. Maybe now I'll give you a homework assignment here, and you can answer my question in writing: How much is it after these people are projected, and how is this reflected on the revenue side of the budget? It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u241	One more time. I told you the number 12,000 and so on, which are actually those who are forgiven. The entire projection of this is carried out by the Ministry covering the Geodetic Authority and in fact all ownership relations are listed there. If you ask me a written question to give you an accurate answer, we will take a closer look. But I do these people because we don't have to talk about the tenants here, but probably the real estate owners. [[…]] And of all properties, 86 percent owned by one apartment property, has more. I say, this is what another ministry does, which also covers the valuation of real estate and so on. We can get this from tax records, and we can also prepare a written answer. It doesn't tax, I'll say, usually on taxes on people's property, but the property is real estate. You tax the property and, of course, you determine who the taxpayer is. He's not always just the owner. I'd say it's not the only tax, of course. We also have compensation for the use of building land. In fact, this tax is also paid for all properties, except what the congregations exempt them from. If you ask a different question, of course we will answer it in writing. However, I think that the written answer will also give new substantive value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Microphone, if you turn it off, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you. Then I ask the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this subject, if there is a need for more resources to be added to the pile, that is, the Ministry of the Environment or the Geodetic Authority, to discuss how many of these properties there are, how many owners there are. However, my call remains, of course, for the Ministry to prepare a written projection of how this would be known financially on the revenue side of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-15-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Thursday, 18. 11. 2021 when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
