ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 70th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janja Slug, Mag. Branislav Rajić, Yuri Lepo, Predrag Baković, Dr. Franz Duck and Marjan Sarec. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 70th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 13 April 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the agenda of the 70th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the law amending and supplementing the legislation on the implementation of the Republic's budget for the years 2021 and 2022. On the basis of the proposal for a decision on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law amending and supplementing the legislation on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. On the basis of Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. Before I give my word to the government representative, a procedural proposal. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u2	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! We have already sent one letter, to which you have also replied by proposing that this meeting be postponed to another date. Actually, the reason is simple. First of all, because there's some agreement that the National Assembly will be in session by 10:00. If we look now, this time frame will be exceeded, and I think that such an important point does not make sense to interrupt in the middle of the debate. The second reason is that this is a rather important matter, a matter that strikes at the very foundations of constitutional democracy. This is what I am saying by referring to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal for a decision and by evaluating or once again proposing that you consider, the President. It is not true that no one at the College objected to this meeting being held today. So I ask you once again to consider whether this meeting can be held either tomorrow or at some later date, where we will be able to hold this debate in a piece, and also in this way to ensure at least a handful more transparently this process, without accepting, practically in the middle of the night, if there are enough votes, in fact the ban on the basic institute, the implementation of the public initiative in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u3	Thank you very much. My colleague Vatovec, in connection with this proposal, as you yourself have said, I have already replied to you, today we have held several discussions on the very contents of this point and also on the date or hour itself. I've made up my mind for this hour following these prior arrangements. I must say, there was no objection to the meeting being convened 15 minutes after the previous meeting today. True, this watch is served with what we agreed to stick to, that's for 22 hours, but it's a special circumstance. On the one hand, we have a deadline to decide, that's until tomorrow. On the other hand, one of the important circumstances is why I think we need to continue this meeting, the fact that there are six working bodies scheduled for tomorrow. With what we have seen today, that some presidents do not respect that working bodies do not convene when we have a plenary session and that then Members cannot be present at the plenary session, I propose that we insist that this meeting be held today, because today, despite the fact that it is a late hour, there are better circumstances than tomorrow. I suggest we continue the session. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a decision. The word has magic. Kristina Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At the end of March, the National Assembly adopted the Law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets for 2021 and 2022 and an initiative to call for a legislative referendum was tabled against this law. The second indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be declared either on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory duties or on the law adopted for the implementation of the State budget. Since it is therefore a content that is not permitted under the Constitution to call for a legislative referendum, the Government proposes that the Council of State adopt the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In preparation for this meeting of the National Assembly, I read the Scientific Discussions Chamber, Volume 74, in which Dr. Igor Kavčič writes in a very understandable way about constitutional restrictions and the prohibition of the legislative referendum. I highly recommend it. The legislative referendum is the most important form of direct democracy. The basis for the implementation of the referendum decision in Articles 1, 3 and 44 shall be specified in Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative referendum allows voters to decide on the implementation of the law adopted by the National Assembly and thus directly cooperate in the exercise of the legislative function. The referendum, as a fundamental form of direct democracy, implies that voters should decide on key social issues. Nevertheless, referendum decision-making is more or less always limited. The reasons are many and different. Among them is the conflict between direct and constitutional democracy. Constitutional democracy in the broadest sense means, and the Constitutional Court often repeats this that democratic decisions of the majority must be subordinated to the values protected by the Constitution. It is therefore the rule of law, the values of which prevail over the administrative system and society as a whole, and the content framework in which formal indirect and direct democracy can move. Restrictions on referendum decision-making are procedural and material in nature. The regulation of the legislative referendum in Article 90 of the Constitution was flawed, inconsistent and sometimes inadequate before it was amended in 2013. The constitutional regulation of the legislative referendum was one of the most controversial political and professional issues. We were there, and we know the spirit in which we changed Article 90 of the Constitution. That is why we have the privilege of understanding him so much better. In European and other constitutional arrangements, referendum decisions on laws are generally limited. The inadmissibility of the referendum on tax, budgetary and other financial laws is justified on the need to provide basic tax and financial bases and resources for the financing of the state and local communities and to carry out their tasks in this area. Postponing the adoption of such laws, and in particular rejecting them in the referendum, could directly jeopardise the financial stability of the State and prevent the implementation of State budget and other public funding and thereby the execution of public functions. It is therefore not a coincidence that the Constitutions most often exclude these laws from the referendum decision. The scope of the exclusion of these laws is different as well as their designation and application in practice. With the new constitutional regulation of the legislative referendum, these restrictions have also been established in our constitutional order since 2013. However, they are essential since not all financial and not all budgetary laws are exempt from the referendum decision, but only explicitly listed laws in the financial field. The prohibition is based on the second indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution only on tax laws which also include customs laws and laws on other compulsory taxes and on the law on the implementation of the State budget. For the smooth implementation of the State budget, it is necessary to exclude from the referendum the law on which the implementation of the State budget directly depends. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. This is the only rational decision that is in the spirit and in accordance with the provisions of our Slovenian Constitution. The necessary condition for such a decision is merely knowledge of the Slovenian language and a sufficient condition for reading the second indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution and Article 21(1) of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, according to which the National Assembly shall adopt a decision within 14 days of the introduction of the referendum initiative, establishing that the referendum is not admissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. The position of the SMC Group until that decision is clear, since the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 90th Article clearly states that the legislative referendum on the law on the implementation of the budget cannot be declared. Acting in such a clear contrast to the Constitution is unacceptable, in our view, especially in the light of the fact that, in the event of the emergency situation we are witnessing, it is necessary to take action to ensure that laws and measures that are good for our citizens are implemented as quickly as possible. In the SMC Group, as we have already argued at the consideration of the new ZIPRS for the years 2021 and 2022 at the home committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly, we support the solutions brought by law. In the SMC Group, we welcome the release of employment for researchers in cases where employee salaries are financed from research projects and programmes and funds for projects and programmes aimed at internationalisation and quality in education and science. We also support human resources reinforcements within the Commission to prevent corruption, which will help improve the performance of the KPK mission, and especially in the spirit of the recently adopted amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which has granted the KPK new legal tasks. We believe that the support of institutions watching over potential irregularities is a good basis for the transparent functioning of society and its main actors. The new law on the implementation of the budget also contains elements relating to the plans and commitments of the Republic of Slovenia to establish basic military capabilities. As has already been said, we committed ourselves to the type, extent and time dynamics of establishing these capabilities when we entered NATO. By operating in recent years, Slovenia has not followed the obligations assigned to it in the framework of the collective defence plan, but with already existing capacities we have behaved uneconomically and thus transferred the burden to our other members of the Alliance. In our view, the security of the country should not be a hostage of political games, as it is an area that is too important for the country. On the basis of these facts, we will support the decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is a technical law that is supposed to contain only provisions for the direct implementation of the budget. As such, the technical law is one of those laws on which the legislative referendum is not permissible. But what happens when the government places provisions in such a law that are not directly linked to the implementation of the budget, or even establishes a law whose enforcement due to potential unconstitutionality has been held by the Constitutional Court? What about it? Or if I were to caricose, if I were to make a provision that, say, abortion is forbidden? Will the referendum be inadmissible in specific cases only because, on behalf of the law in which we find these promoters, it is stated that it serves the implementation of the budget? Last November, the National Assembly passed the Law on 780 million investments in the Slovenian Army until 2026. Such arms deals were opposed by 30,000 voters, and a legislative referendum initiative was put in place. The initiative and thus the direct decision of the citizens on this matter prevented the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. This was also confirmed by the vote of the National Assembly. We did not agree with this in the opposition, so we demanded a constitutional opinion on the inadmissibility of a referendum ban on military investment. At the time when the Constitutional Court considers the constitutionality of the decision, military investments were frozen, that is a fact. This decision of the Constitutional Court on the retention of the law has been responded by the government with a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget. In spite of everything, it brought the content of the law to which the Constitutional Court lit the red light. I repeat, the government has made the adopted amendment to ZIPRS by making the circuit of the Constitutional Court. The adopted novel follows exactly the same objective as the Law on the 780 million investment in the Slovenian Army. Until the Constitutional Court decides, it is up to the Constitutional Court to decide against all the rules of law. This government seems to be turning a blind eye to the legal system and is in a hurry to start new arms deals. Where is the respect of the rule of law, laws and constitution? And where is respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the highest judicial authority? All this is the government's commitment to achieving its own political agenda, ready to hit it hard, but in the end, the Constitutional Court is still ruling. I believe that this conclusion, which has repeatedly robbed people of the opportunity to speak. This government does not seem to trust its people deeply. We understand the decision as continuing violations of the Constitutional Court's decisions and will therefore not support it. At this point, Slovenia needs new doses of the vaccine in order to have a normal life as soon as possible, not investments that open the door wide to new affairs, high commissions and corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At the time of the epidemic, a large rump and pump, with no critical consideration, is used to argue that the referendum is the best democratic means of decision-making. The position on the referendum and its admissibility and usefulness depends on the circumstances in time and space. As far as representative democracy has shortcomings and its institutions are liberalised, however, the extensive use of the referendum is neither a cure nor a substitute for it. Understanding democracy usually leads to theories and practices that representative democracy is a rule and that a referendum should be avoided as a means of direct democracy. A system that allows voters to vote either yes or no or against would institutionalise a principle that is hostile to the ideal of democracy as a debate. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition for its implementation, according to the legal nature of the state budget. The most important change concerns the financing of investment contracts in the Slovenian Army, provided for by the general long-term programme of equipment and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programme for its implementation. Obligations can be assumed without delay. The Slovenian army is the most important component of the national security system. Its size, weapons and composition depend on state policy and military doctrine. The defence system has become the subject of daily policy through every reasonable measure, inevitably avoiding the needs of the profession, as well as the imperative of modernisation. There's never any money for modernisation, but it destroys the operational capacity of the units, it's nobody's concern. In doing so, it is of secondary importance how these matters are presented to citizens. The defence of the country requires much more than the capacity of demagogists and populists. The relationship between the defence system and its own public is thus transformed into a humiliating personal political marketing. The old mistakes of our strategic planning are repeated. We are responding to the real developmental issues of the country's defence power by denying them. In doing so, it is quite clear that investment will be carried out by more governments, and a number of problems that will arise across the board will be resolved for several years in a row. The last decade of developments in the extremely complex system of state legitimacy has seen our professional incompetence, the legalization of the system of non-decision, the way in which nothing changes. Such a situation actually leads to an inversion of values in a real military profession, without which no army can be imagined. Marginal things are becoming a strategy, and the profession goes to robbery. The strategic leadership of a 30-year-old country is not infantile in the domestic sandstone. We do not have the strategic orientation of the country's defence potency professionally and politically. The mistakes are repeated, the leadership of the army is therefore constantly improvisation. We may not see this on the inside or on the short run. On the outside and in the long run, problems accumulate. The proposed amendment to the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia amounts to an end to such an unsustainable situation. The referendum as a means of expressing the will of voters and voters must be taken into account, but the glorification of the referendum as the ultimate means of decision-making is absolutely problematic. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for the years 2021 and 2022 will allow the smooth implementation of the budgets for the two years in question, so Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u14	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The amendment and addition of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 govern the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budget of the State, which means that it regulates specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of each year. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will allow the country's budgets for 2021 and 2022 to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner. Given the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the law governing the implementation of the budget is a necessary condition for its implementation and enforcement. Since the budget does not lay down the rights and obligations of citizens and other legal persons, that is the technical law. In view of the above, it should be noted that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 refers to the content under which, in accordance with the second indent of the second subparagraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible because the law in question constitutes the law adopted for the implementation of the State budget referred to in the second indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. Good evening, everyone! What this government has failed to do with the Slovenian Army Investment Act is now trying to change the law on the implementation of the budget. I am talking, of course, about beating one of the key democratic mechanisms of modern countries, about the referendum initiative of the people. The fact is that the Constitutional Court held a decision prohibiting the referendum on the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army by the coalition on a proposal from the Government. The Constitutional Court has assessed that a possible violation of the constitutional right of our citizens to a referendum initiative, where additional €780 million would be spent on investment in the Slovenian Army, would have irreparable consequences. The second fact is that this government and the coalition majority in the National Assembly are so inconsiderate, so without respect for the fundamental institutions of our country, which the Constitutional Court of course is that the decision of the Constitutional Court has been played by simply providing for this 780 million euro of funds in another law, not in any law, but in the technical law of ZIPRS, which, of course, must not foresee new investments. Even more controversial is the fact that the same government, which has now played and bypassed the Constitutional Court's decision, is now playing a part in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act. The decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum is proposed on the basis of an article where the formal competence of the Government to propose such a decision is not actually prescribed. Today, in fact, it is a matter of some conclusion, of the application of a legal analogy, only to provide this government with an interpretative legal basis for another decision prohibiting the referendum. So, for you, the well-respected coalition, it is quite simple, which is not an occasion for this government, whether it be the appointment of state or European prosecutors, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, or even the people's will, this government, by means of a coalition voting machine, will bring down everything, without considering the consequences for our democracy, through all the bodies and the goal ultimately justifys the means. And the goal here is a clear, political agenda for this government. The funds are clear, too. These are democratic standards that unfortunately disappear under this government. Although there is no need to stress this, I will say clearly and loudly that we will not support today's decision banning the referendum in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget is a specific type of law. Its significance is defined in particular by Article 90 of the Constitution and because of its role, namely, it is an annual technical law which sets out the specificities of the implementation of the annual budget, and it is not permissible to present a referendum. Oh, look out! The constitutional exception, which does not provide for a referendum on this law, is related to its content, not to the title of the law. The law on the implementation of the budget must remain within the framework set out in the Constitution. If the legislator pressures the content that does not belong to him, it creates a risk that someone will prove that the content of the law is wider than its title. In this case, however, the arguments under which the law is protected from referendum decision-making would also be dismissed. In such a extreme and hypothetical case, a referendum on this law could even take place. The referendum is about the whole adopted law, not just one or two controversial articles. The referendum on the law and implementation of the budget could thus block the implementation of the entire budget. This is also the main substantive reason for restricting the referendum on it, and it is therefore the responsibility of every single government, which can only propose such a law, to limit itself to the content and solutions necessary for the implementation of the budget. Your Honor! In the adoption of the last novel of the Law on the implementation of the budget, such a hypothetical situation has in practice taken place. The government added to its proposal an article extending its powers to years for which the budget has not been adopted. More importantly, the Constitutional Court is currently assessing the substantive equivalent provisions of the second law. By adopting the law containing the disputed article, the government and its coalition majority in the National Assembly have created a circuit around the principle of the division of power. The government and its supporters themselves have created a state in which, due to its stubbornness, referendum requirements and threats to the end of budgetary execution appear. In addition, the coalition MPs who are forced into this same law and to cover up their own delays in action also introduced provisions to extend the deadlines for the submission of business reports and tax accounts. Otherwise, the necessary and important content has been extremely awkwardly placed in the budget law, creating a new risk that the provisions will be retained if there are referendum requirements and constitutional assessments of this contested law. In her militaristic efforts, she has taken all budgetary users hostage and, to the surface, financial services and services. Your Honor! The reasons why the referendum on the law on the implementation of the budget is not admissible are strong. Perhaps it is crucial that a referendum decision on the whole of the law may block too many other processes because of one disputed solution and therefore cause too much collateral damage. In the meantime, the Constitution does not prevent the assessment of the constitutional compatibility of the individual provisions at issue, which would not stop regular budgetary implementation processes. In the Group of Social Democrats, as well as the rest of the public, we are appalled at the procedures and procedures of constitutional circuits and the inappropriate legal solutions in which the rulings insist. We are convinced that the provision on the long-term financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces does not fall under this law as long as the constitutional conformity of the system law is assessed. That is why we believe that the Constitutional Court will also have to judge the constitutional consistency of this law and may even retain implementation or repeal any of the provisions at issue. In the process of adopting this law, we have therefore tried to postpone the implementation of Article 1 in question by means of amendments, thereby withdrawing the constitutional content from the law pending the decision of the Constitutional Court. The ruling majority didn't listen. She rejected the solution and today blames others who are trying to defend constitutional order, forgetting that she has pushed the contents that do not belong there into the law and that even a referendum can happen, which is not possible under normal circumstances. We will therefore vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum on the latest amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In a democratic society with a democratic government, this debate should not be at all today. For the second time, this government and this coalition are trying to play the constitutionally guaranteed right to a referendum, to decide how 780 million euros will be spent in this country. It's pretty simple. The government is doing this because it knows that 75% of people are spending 780 million euros in money on armoured and other weapons and there are no unjustified reasons to do so. It is 780 million, although you say the money will be for everything, in fact the money that will come into health care for investments in 10 years, for long-term care will come 780 million from current indicators in 27 years and into apartments in over 100 years. And you say it's gonna be money. This government acts as if money is unlimited, but the Fiscal Council warns that within three months, it has already spent the deficit it predicted in six months. When the money runs out, it's gonna run out for everyone, it's gonna run out for the hospitals, it's gonna run out for the apartments, it's gonna run out for the long-term supply, and we're gonna waste it for the armory. Those who say that the state must provide security, ask what really threatens us or who really threatens us. Maybe look out the window. We are said to have experienced the worst temperature drop in the last week due to climate change. It's all been blooming, we've had 25 degrees, the temperature's gone to zero, the flowers are gone. Ask yourself where this will go in the next ten, twenty, thirty years and how we will live in such a world. See if you're wondering who's threatening our future, maybe the real estate market. While young people have virtually all lost their jobs and are returning to their parents, the situation in the real estate market is such — and the lack of housing that has not been built by countries for 15 years — that there has been a hero who has put an apartment in Bolho that he has, beware! Bathroom, bedroom, toilet and kitchen all in one room. Price? 340 euros a month. Or see if you wonder what threatens us among the people and ask yourself why we have not seen such dissatisfaction and disunity as we have seen in this country in 30 years. These are the things that threaten us. But you're creating a future when there's no money for housing when there's no money for long-term care when there's no money for health care. However, we will have beautiful new armoured personnel, which are not even meant for war in Slovenia, but for Afghanistan. And what you do is unconstitutional. The government has tried so hard to write one A4 page of explanation why a referendum on this issue should not be allowed. All we can read on this A4 page is that the referendum is inadmissible because you have incorporated arms purchases into the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. But you only introduced them into this law because it is the only law expressly referred to in article 90 of the Constitution that the referendum is not permissible. The secretary from the Ministry of Finance took exactly 30 seconds to explain this matter. Your explanation is so long. But if you look at the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, you'll see that you haven't fooled anyone. There, on the eight sides, it is well said that the law you are amending is not the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, because it was adopted when the budgets were adopted at the end of last year and implemented. What is being addressed today is an incentive to a new law that has nothing to do with the implementation of budgets. The legal and legal service correctly reiterates that what you are doing is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a democratic state, Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a legal state, Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that it has power of the people in Slovenia, Article 44 of the Constitution, which gives people the right to co-decision in public matters, and Article 90 of the Constitution which regulates the right to referendum. All these constitutional principles will be stepped up to ensure that you can buy weapons in the trenches of everything else in the next six years. But don't worry, we won't be done today. I'll see you at the Constitutional Court. The arrangements allowing such an act will be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing it's a wish. I'm rewriting the list for applications to the list of discussers. Applications are under way. The first one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members, distinguished Members, a nice evening greeting. Dear Secretary of State, I also welcome you. We need to speak honestly today. At this hour, if you look at the screen, it's 9:48 p.m., you attack the Constitutional Court. You are attacking the decision of the Constitutional Court, which at this time decides on a case that has been held pending its decision. If you read eight pages of the explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service, I hope that all those who spoke about respect for the Constitution will become red in the face and look into the ground. On the eight sides, the legislative and legal service of this Parliament proves that the person being framed in the law on the implementation of the budget is an unconstitutional act. And since you know this because we have read to you, although you have probably read this opinion of the Legal and Legal Service yourself, we are really talking about the attack on the Constitutional Court. In this case, diplomatic words must be superfluous. When we vote today on the admissibility or inadmissibility of the referendum, we will not really vote on the ZIPRS. We will vote on the plan to degrade the Slovenian Constitutional Court. I don't know if it's necessary to draw, write, or sing. You can't just do that. Once again, eight sides of the long opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which proves to you that you are doing unconstitutional things, is not intended for a trash bin. It is intended for us, Members of Parliament and Members, to assist us in our decision-making. I fully agree with those of you who have already announced today that the matter will be rushed to the Constitutional Court. The problem in this House, however, is that, given that you have been warned and that it is highly likely that the Constitutional Court will decide again, you will not be embarrassed. I will vote against the fact that tonight, at 21.50 p.m., there will be more when we vote, the Constitutional Court in the Slovenian Parliament will degrade itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u24	Thank you, President. This isn't just an attack on the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, as we have already heard today, is essentially judging by the content of a similar law, the Investment Act between 2022 and 2026, which envisioned 780 million spending on new arms affairs. 780 million for weapons. Five months after this law came to the National Assembly, the government sent a decision on inadmissibility. When it was very clear that the vast majority of citizens and citizens oppose this law, it considers that these are wrong social priorities. Coronacrosis has shown the weakness of many systems in this country. It showed the weakness of our health care, showed weakness in long-term care, weakness in housing policy and so on. At that time, the social priorities of this government also emerged. They showed up in May at the end of the first wave of the epidemic, with the raid of NATO's hunting bombers and the preparation of a 780-million-dollar plan for weapons. That's when the government's social priorities showed up. Not health care, not long-term care, not young people, not housing, but weapons, means of killing. At that time, 30,000 people gathered signatures for the referendum initiative in less than one week. Thirty thousand. The matter is still in the Constitutional Court. And what does the government do? Of course, it tries to force its social priority in a different way and writes the new ZIPRS, the new ZIPRS, which has nothing to do with the substance of what the law on the implementation of budgets applies. As a result, we have heard less than 30 seconds of the government's long explanation today, which is why we are reading less than one page of the government's long explanation for this decision on inadmissibility. Because you have no argument. Because there can be no such arguments. And that's what the Law-Legal Service wrote down. And I will read and quote, because today in all positions we have only heard some empty phrases about how this is a technical law for which the Constitution prohibits a referendum. What does the Legal and Legal Service say? “It should be noted that the National Assembly, by means of a proposal for a decision, will remain within the Constitution and the ZRLI only if the ZIPRS is a law that is adopted by the implementation of the budget and would allow its implementation.” And then he explains: "The current budget for 2021 has already begun to be implemented by the adoption of ZIPRS for 2021 and 2022." And then he goes on to say: “ZIPRS is formally a novel of the Budget Implementation Act, but it cannot be overlooked that it is not necessary to implement a valid budget.” So, dear all those who will vote on this law today. If you vote in favour of banning the referendum, are voting against the Constitution, are voting against the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and are simply voting to ensure that the social priorities of this country at a time when many suffer the consequences of coronaryism, innkeepers, small entrepreneurs, ordinary workers and other citizens and citizens, you will, if you support this decision, vote in favour of investing €780 million in arms in the coming years instead of recovering. And that's the whole bet today. This is all we vote on. And if you do, of course, you will vote against the Constitution, contrary to the law. And that's what the Law-Legal Service reminds you of today. If you have not seen this document today or have not wanted to see it, I suggest you take a break before the vote, read it, eight pages explaining in detail why the adoption of such a decision would be contrary to the Constitution and why the very explanation given by the Government is inappropriate. And that's actually a vote against people. Once again, against at least 40,000 people who have twice voiced a strong opposition that during these times of economic, health and social crisis such amounts of money would be thrown into completely unnecessary things at the moment. Of course, I will vote against this decision, because it is not only unconstitutional, it is also untapped and disrespectful to all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I will vote against the decision to be put to the vote today because the referendum needs to be made possible for people. Why? In addition to the warnings given by the Legislative and Legal Service that the issue is against the Constitution, she also pointed out that the arms section in ZIPRS 2021-2022 is one that does not meet the criteria laid down in the Public Finances Act for implementing laws and that it is not a law on the implementation of budgets if it is so designed for which the referendum would not be permitted. Next. Article 90 of the Constitution does not in any way state that the government can introduce into the law on the implementation of the budget, which at some point suits it to avoid a referendum in this way. However, I must say that the law on the implementation of the budget was adopted when the budget was adopted and this law is in force. The Government of the National Assembly, with this novel ZIPRS, is forcing it to receive one formal cover for arms purchases. In the coming year and in the coming periods, virtually contracts will be signed when the amounts of unlimited amounts, even more than €780 million, can be used for arms purchases, in other mandates, not only during this government. The purchase of weapons will prevent practically necessary investments in health care, nursing homes, rental apartments, schools, kindergartens, science, so that young people can be kept and assured of a certain perspective in the country. That is why the ZIPRS novel is harmful both to people and to the development of the country, for the things they swore and swore to them by ministers and also the Prime Minister when they were given a mandate in the National Assembly. And that I'm specific in one area, that's the state co-financing of kindergartens and schools. The invitation was issued by the Ministry of Education, Simone Kustec. But look, 160 applications were sent by local communities. Of these, 67 applications for investments in kindergartens and 93 for investments in primary schools. But look at the fragment! Money is not available For kindergartens of 67, there are only 18 deposits that will be able to receive money for co-investment in municipalities. In primary schools, out of 93 deposits are only 30 upgrades to schools. Look, colleagues and colleagues, this government doesn't have money for schools and kindergartens, they have guns. Do you agree with that? By today's vote, you will then show what Slovenia is about and what are the political priorities of the current government if it does not give money for children, for young people, for the elderly, for health care, where we now urgently need investment. The answer to this is my question, which I have raised rhetorically, item 0,70/203 of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the infrastructure for equipping the Slovenian Army. On this sub-programme, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces had €3.7 million available for arms purchases in 2015 and 132 million in 2022. 3500 times the increase, and that's how much the investment for the military increased. Let me finish. Who today will vote in favour of the proposal made by the current government that the referendum decision on the ZIPRS novel, which provides money for weapons, must be aware that he has not been given a mandate for such a vote or the legitimacy of the electorate and voters in Slovenia. Why do I say that? Public surveys have shown that two thirds of people oppose the purchase of weapons at the moment when the needs in other areas, especially in health care, nursing homes and so on, are significantly higher. And finally, look, when we started collecting signatures for the signing of a referendum on the arms law, 30 000 citizens and citizens signed within a few days or when we started collecting signatures in Levica that a referendum on this amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget was to be signed within a few days, there were 10,000 signatures. And that's what I'm talking about. Consider this when voting on today's proposal to prevent people from exercising the right provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution on a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Why does the National Assembly even have to decide on the inadmissibility of a referendum on amending the law on the implementation of budgets, and when the Constitution clearly defines such inadmissibility in article 90? Of course, there are signatures here for the referendum. If this marriage were pure, there wouldn't be any signatures. However, since the law itself is a single blind maneuver, poorly camouflaged, the purpose is very easy to recognize, here are the signatures for the referendum. The Minister of Defence knows that the implementation of the military investment law is increasing, as the Constitutional Court held it until it decides whether the referendum may be admissible. There is, therefore, a very serious possibility that the law will eventually fall. That's why there's a convenient bypass to the Constitutional Court. Although it is already disputed that the Investment Act is still so much the case, it is not yet in force, but is now intended to serve as a basis for these amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, changes which are also at issue due to the taking of commitments far beyond the period for which budgets apply. And, of course, the question is whether it is lawful, when a single law is still pending, to adopt a law with almost the same content. The first one is not yet valid, but it should be the basis for the other. Yeah, it sounds tricky, but this is what you have, government, this is what you have, a coalition. Because it's a matter of defense, it's a real defense minister. Of course it is a defence, but it is a defence in this case of the rule of law and democracy in Slovenia. Because the referendum as a powerful tool for citizens has in fact literally destroyed this power. He's gone for nothing. Even in the current anti-Korona packages, there's a whole bunch of things calling after the referendum. In any way, I want to force the arms law, even though military equipment could run on the basis of current budgets, it is so strong that the government, along with the coalition, will be involved in this mess. However, this blind manoeuvre is so transparent that this law on the implementation of budgets as a result of the unconstitutional and illegal content could also be found in the referendum. As in the referendum, the law on investment in the Slovenian army can be found at the end. And of course, we can now expect attacks on the Constitutional Court in advance – preventively, attacks on the opposition, on all those citizens we think differently from the current ruling policy. We think buying weapons in times to come is inappropriate, if I don't say even, perverse. And since the Secretary of Defense is still coming up with the idea of compulsory military service, there's something else he can do to build a third referendum. Too much for one minister, but he can be so ambitious. The only one that I think is appropriate is the one referendum, and these are as soon as possible. Until then, I will not support the conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendums, let them talk about anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Yeah. Please sign up. Andrey Reich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u30	All in attendance, all in attendance! In particular, I would like to make sure that we are all aware of and respect the fundamental principles of the law, so that co-ordinated standards are not interpreted in a dissensive way. We are in a situation where the Government violates the constitutional requirements of law, the rule of law and when, through the introduction into the technical laws of certain amendments that do not belong there, it exercises jurisdiction and degrades the weight of the Constitutional Court. This is simply disrespectful and unacceptable. Cases that the court is judging because they are controversial, the government is inventing procedures for how to play this. A decision or a proposal for a law will allow contracts with long-term consequences to be concluded, including over a period of years. For example, if the Constitutional Court finds that the law is inadequate within six months, irreparable legal facts will be carried out and for the Slovenian budget, in line with the findings, irreparable damage. To respect the principles of the rule of law, laws must be respected and, above all, co-ordinated standards should not be interpreted in a dissensive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u32	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Citizens and citizens do not deserve such a government that does not trust them and such authorities that do not trust them. Our citizens and our citizens are not only trustworthy, but they are our hopes. When we talk or when we discuss matters concerning the foundations of democracy, constitutional democracy, it is actually unacceptable that we should not only discuss these matters in this way in this national assembly but rather argue. Instead of being a defender or being a defender, because you keep telling people that you work for people, why you’re afraid of them, why you don’t let them, why you don’t trust them, if you’re for people, or if you work for people. Look, in the last 14 days we've had quite a lot of messages in the public, calls for the help of innkeepers, nurses, farmers that you take for hostages many times in these discussions, or even in your actions here in the National Assembly. All of you are reminded of the same thing, let us help because they need help, at a time when we are dealing with an invisible enemy, which this virus is, but you people are currently having a very unpleasant feeling. Many times they see you as a visible enemy and also as a visible enemy of democracy. I will vote against this decision, which is being discussed today. And even all 90 Members, if they were all here, should vote against it. If we truly say that we work for people, then we give them the right or we owe them the right to decide for ourselves or to trust them. This government and this authority do not trust citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's a shame. If you think about doing so, confidence will be even greater, and these public surveys that you can read have shown that trust is not only great but enormous. Anyone who's gonna press the "yes" button today actually voted against people. Think again, you have a chance. You don't have to wrap your eyes now, 'cause the ladies over there with their right eye wraps. I don't know why we'd roll around with our eyes when we're talking about democracy and when we're talking about people, about our citizens and our citizens. Please reconsider and make the right decision. So if you decide, as you always say and say, for the people, you will vote against this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I am truly ashamed to be sitting in this national assembly right in the middle of a big fight with democratic standards and categories in this country. We're talking about the prosecution, the constitutional court, the referendum initiative. More rhetorical than you can be, a respected coalition, I ask, but you have even read the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service on these eight sides. Do you understand him? Because if so, then you should be ashamed of yourself first for the introductory explanation of the Secretary of State, who explained in a few seconds the validity of the decision banning the referendum, and then in my opinion you should be ashamed, or at least with a very shaky hand and with one bad conscience today, thinking about pressing the button to prevent the referendum. The legislative and legal service explains very nicely and comprehensibly that, in essence, it is for the assessment of whether or not such a decision is justified today, it is necessary to look at the substance or content of the ZIPRS novel. And he says that the proposal for a decision is not only sufficient to meet some formal criteria, so that it is a new law governing the implementation of the State budget, which is based solely on the law, but on the content of the law, which should justify the exclusion of the referendum initiative. Furthermore, it is not irrelevant that this ZIPRS novel does not form an inseparable whole with a budget that would only allow its execution, nor is it the nature on which you could decide on the referendum initiative of citizens on the basis of article 90 of the Constitution. It's not that kind of content. And you're abusing it. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that from Articles 6 to 10 of the amendment to this ZIPRS, the content is not at all a change or addition to the ZIPRS, but is a general provision derogating from the provisions of other laws and regulations and the specific provisions of the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and so on. So this novel is not the kind of content that you would even dare to ban a referendum initiative for citizens. Moreover, you have placed in this paper the same content on which the Constitutional Court has decided to suspend the enforcement of such content of the law because it has concluded that there can be irreparable harmful consequences for the state and its citizens. You dare to push this into this law under the pretext of putting it into ZIPRS, which should not be possible to referenda, because it is a matter of budget execution, but it will be okay. No, no, no. You have made an even greater mistake, and you abuse or usurp power in this country. In this respect, the PSC held that, at the time of the constitutional review of the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army, when its implementation is delayed, it is not constitutionally permissible to adopt the same arrangements in the new ZIPRS, since this would be contrary to Articles 1, 2, 3, 44 and 90 of the Constitution. More clearly than that, they can't tell you to understand if you want to understand. Even today, once again, you are abusing the position you are in, exploiting your power or position in the government to shut your mouth to destroy the standards that are in force in our country, destroying the democratic values that we have accumulated through our ancestors. I'm really ashamed of you, respectable coalition colleagues, to sit there and press the key for.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Good evening, colleagues. Hello! It is an undeniable fact that we have heard several times today, and it is so clear that the government is just playing the right to a referendum. That last valve that we have for citizens and citizens when we find that politics does not do its job, that it does not work for the well-being and well-being of people in the first stage. This main valve is now ruled by John Janša, or I will begin to speak to her about the authority of John Janša. He realizes that he does not work for the good and for the well-being of people, and he realizes that people know that he does not work for their well-being. The strategic solution does not see it as starting to work for the well-being of people to devote itself to the establishment of strong school, health and other state subsystems, but rather as a way to silence the will of the inhabitants and the inhabitants, the electorates and the electorates. With a tape through the mouth, after the same pattern as we have seen in recent months or in the last year, either on the front with the media, with government officials who have not peed in the right horn, with NGOs, with culturers, in attempts to settle with the opposition, either in civil society or on the parliamentary floor. Not once. A similar story we had here a few months ago with another law, a copy paste situation. By the time we first collected 30,000 signatures in a few days, so for information, those needed 2 000 500 had only been collected in Ljubljana in a few hours, already when we collected these 30,000 signatures, when they set their signals on fire by the Constitutional Court when they delayed the implementation of the law, as the ZPS had warned us at that time, we now have a new attempt here. A new shameless copy of the trap of constitutional experiment that gave nothing but the quiet will of the people. Selotape across the mouth of people, people whose government should work for in the first phase, working for their well-being. A new act of men, now again in a few days 10,000 people who see through this clear scene, but the government or authority of Janez Janša has nothing to do with it. And now, colleagues and colleagues, we don't actually have one thing to say, political issues, no, we're one for, we're one for, we're one for, and then we're going to have a little debate here and we're going to have a majority vote on how a political idea is going to come true in the country. No, no, no. We are talking here about a much broader system of social priorities. During this vulnerable time, we are talking about what kind of society we want to develop from the foothills of this epidemic – or do we want to develop a society that will be a solidarity that will be inclusive, which will be intelligent, educated, healthy, which will be in contact with natural resources and technologically developed, will it be barbaric on the other hand? Because in the final phase, buying weapons - what is it? Killing. I am critical of this government and its connections with the church, and I say that they are taking us to the Middle Ages, but, colleagues and colleagues, this step that we have today on the table is a leap into prehistoric history. “Ugga, uga!” With a stone on his head. Or with a gun to his forehead. It is under normal circumstances that I say that this step, which we have on the table, is constitutionally disputed, not only in these circumstances in which we are, when we have to lay new foundations for the state and society. There is no need and no need for such a measure at this time. Slovenia is not in security, and all evaluations of the professional public and the competent authorities confirm this claim. We're talking about a civil fall. It's not a big deal. The only need, which is clear here, is the necessity after the conclusion of the arms business, which in Slovenia and around the world have traditionally been plagued by corruption, experienced by the high proportions of those who make money, in our case, by the speedy Minister of Defence. The only emergency here, colleagues and colleagues, is obviously on the side of the government of Janez Janša [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I will refer to the debate of my colleague Siter, who said that the current government, this extremely right-wing government, is very strongly attached to the Church. And I ask you: Is not the pope God's deputy on earth? Wasn't he supposed to be intruding? And how ashamed you are to trample even the instructions of the church's top representatives when they advise you at the time of the epidemic to acquire a murder weapon. Because the weapon is nothing constructive, it's murder, it's murder, and it's not safe for anyone. The whole world is in an epidemic, and Janez Janša's government is at war. And I'm asking you, a respected coalition, with whom we're at war. Who's threatening us? Who are we gonna fight? Who do we need 780 million weapons for? Except for the weapons lobby, of course. Whenever Janez Janša shows up, we have a new arms affair. We've barely forgotten the patriarchs who know they haven't even worked and they've stopped us and we've now got 780 million planned for the murder weapon again. They never brought life. If you say, "780 million have surpluses and let's put in universal basic income, and put in higher wages, and put in higher pensions, and in green jobs, and in the start of the economy now after the epidemic, and put in hospitals and in homes for the elderly. Let's go! You'd jump into the air and say, "Oh, no, where are we going to take it?" We've heard that a lot. In short, power is sweet. The word authority some of your SDS Members use so sweetly in each other's sentences. The authorities, we have power, you had power before. And this power gives you the right to trample two thirds of the citizens of Slovenia and their will to trample on the Constitutional Court, to trample on the legal and legal service. What a double morale! Instead of peace you choose war, instead of life you choose death, instead of building you choose destruction and destruction, instead of the interest of citizens and citizens of Slovenia you choose the interests of lobbying and instead of peace and singing birds and beautiful healthy nature you choose corruption, pollution, destruction. The world you're building us is not a nice world, and, you know, we're afraid to live in a world like this. The proof of your arrogance and shame is that you are not able to even listen to arguments when you do not like them. You scream, you talk, you talk, you laugh. But, you know, you're not doing the right thing. As I said in the previous debate, there will be a judgment for you. One or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Matjaž, there is still a desire for debate. Applications are under way. I ask you all to sign up now, which of you are yet to discuss. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. At the end of this debate today, and this long day, I will not really discuss why the coalition decides it is necessary to give it so much money, 790 million, for weapons. It may be an issue for me, I would have given it to anything else, but it's the right of this coalition to choose a weapon as its political priority. And it is obvious that this priority is implemented and implemented, so important that it is ready to undermine all democratic principles, the rule of law and so on. And that other part is what I'm worried about. Not that you're going to give so much money for weapons instead of everything else, but I'm worried that it's so important to you, I don't know if one of the ministers is so important or whether I don't know what kind of serious force is threatening us, but we don't know that it's necessary to force it through all the rules. I wonder what remains in a democratic country when state authorities start to break the rules. What remains available to some opposition after shouting and shouting and warning, and someone votes and violates the rules, some democratic standards, some established legal standards or some narrowing of the Constitutional Court? What else can we do then? What we do when the law specifically stipulates that the minister resigns by making his resignation statement, the specific minister said that he is irrevocably giving up what we can do in a democratic country when the Prime Minister, because it does not appear in the rules of procedure or in any law, decides not to open the envelopes. A fellow blinks with his hands and says, "You're crying." We can cry. What can we do when we point out ten times that an investment in the military cannot be excluded from the referendum decision because the military's resources are budgeted? Our army won't fail if you don't have an investment. And since this is such an important issue, we should have the opportunity — whether we should decide or not — to make decisions — for the citizens to decide. And with some legal maneuvers, you people are denying this right. The SDS, full of mouths, have been you all the time political opposition, how to listen to people, how to give people a chance. You were in charge when the referendums were to be organized. You knew how to get people together for the referendums. Now you're denying this fundamental right to people. Even the Constitutional Court has made it known by its previous conduct that this is controversial. It kept that law. And I think, I'm pretty sure, although you never know from lawyers, my legal opinion is that they'll decide against you, and you're going back to avoiding the law and some ZIPRS, when we've been listening to what it's about today and hours, and I'm sure you know what it's about, and you're going to put something that you've tried before, and it didn't go through. I'm really worried about what someone in a democratic country can do if we say that this is wrong, for the first time, the Legal and Legal Service will warn you, the members of the opposition will give arguments, then on the basis of an initiative, the Constitutional Court will listen to the implementation of the law, and you will again, through the back door into a completely inappropriate law with the same fora. Again, the Legal and Legislative Service clearly states against which Article of the Constitution is this and why it is contrary to the Constitution and why this is very likely to be unconstitutional. Anti-constitutionality is, of course, determined by the Constitutional Court. But here's where it made it clear that it wasn't right. And this is the abuse of power that we've been talking about here today, that you know you're working against the law, contrary to the rules of procedure, contrary to the constitution, but you're saying what we have to do, because we have the majority. The government proposes and most here without considering without listening to arguments, press the button. And the decision has been made. What Can I Do? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u42	Thank you very much. This coalition, what you're doing, is clear evidence that you've actually lost contact with people. The most basic sense of reality that surrounds you, or that you simply care. That you think that the country, that all the institutions of this country, that all of your property and that people are just ordinary farmers on the chessboard, is like you put it on your desk. Otherwise, what should we expect from a government that has ruled us for a year with decrees, decrees, even those that have never been published in the Official Journal, with pimps in the Beijings? Other than another incredible maneuver, a bypass across the Constitutional Court, a rejection of an act in this novel ZIPRS, a cheap trick to force a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on a subversive, on this law on changes and additions to ZIPRS, and in an unprecedented and unprecedented way. In this way, you would like to allow the implementation of this 780-million-million-dollar arms law, even though it is still in the original in the Constitutional Court's opinion. With this outrageous maneuver, what are you doing? You take the last thing they have left, their democratic right to correction, to a referendum. What, then, if, by our Constitution, the people have authority, you don't really care. You really fear this people to death, and you prove it not only in this case, but you prove it with the repression of citizens and citizens as soon as they open their mouths. Even those who read the Constitution in the Market of the Republic. You're simply sanctioning and suppressing these people, too. And of course you're afraid that people would decide for themselves where to invest this 780 million total public money. You're afraid that people would say that in these times of crisis, we don't need weapons intended for missions abroad, not for our self-defence. That we need everything else to strengthen our health care to build nonprofit housing, more homes for the elderly, care for the elderly and so on and so on, in short, that we need these 780 million in blood for our common well-being. Even for yours, Your Honor, even though you don't realize it. What does increasing accessibility to the instruments of direct democracy mean? It can only mean one thing and only one thing. It's a suspension of democracy, respected and respected, and it's a dangerous slip into authoritarianism. And I ask you, is this the ideal that we've been trying to achieve on our own? Is this the India Koromandy you promised us? With this proposal of yours to stamp out, ban the referendum, you're proving once again that you're not really dealing with democracy. It is important to you an area, “mild or force”, as you say. You don't care what people really think. Because if you were, you'd ever ask them, let us ask them a question. You are simply peacefully destroying the democratic foundations of this country, which we have been building for several decades, subjecting yourselves to independent and critical institutions, discrediting anyone who disagrees with you, and now re-cynical and harshly suspending the will of people. It's the second time in the same case. You whistle at 30,000 signatures in the first round, you whistle at 10,000 signatures now, and you smoothly bypass the Constitutional Court, and you've even trampled all the standards that apply in some mature democracy, in some truly regulated state of law. And let's ask ourselves how many democracies we have left, let's ask ourselves how many legal states we have left. Of course, I will vote against this autocratic decision prohibiting the referendum saying of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry I signed up. Look, unlike my colleagues on the left, I believe that the state of Slovenia, as a sovereign state, needs this security pillar, where we consider the military, the police. And, of course, it takes money to do that. I absolutely agree with that. But now you have brought us into a situation, including those who look at this country perhaps a little differently, not so much in flowers, that for some things we have to call people to help because we simply cannot in this national assembly anymore, not because of SDS, because of other coalition partners, middle parties who simply do not want to understand one thing. And I believe because I don't understand this constitutional law either, and I don't know what the Constitutional Court will do. But I understand, my dears, the numbers. And I believe we all understand numbers in this National Assembly. And I'm just going to give you a few numbers, not for now, but the problem will be tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, and next year, five years. And that's what I'd like to say today, because we're not going to give 700 million dollars to the military, and then we're going to leave it for schools, for kindergartens, and I don't know what, for health -- that's bluff. He doesn't have one for kindergartens, he doesn't have one for schools, he doesn't have one for the military. All you do in this country is get credit for the next generation. And this is the most dangerous. We are in the first three months, my dears, and the year is twelve months, and I hope we all know that, in the first three months, we have made a deficit of 300 billion. This is the half of the deficit you accepted in the budget a few months ago. You've already spent half that money in the first three months. You had 37% more expenditure in the first three months than we had last year at the same time. But we have until the end of the year, you know how many months. So we're gonna run out of money in the first half. Yeah, in a way that we're just going to borrow, and we're just going to borrow, and we're just going to have credit, and we're going to have credit. But what happens next year? What happens when the next government comes? How are we gonna pay our pensions? How are we gonna pay our wages? Is that who's thinking? Does it just matter what happens today and how we settle in today? This is what I'm absolutely about to call people to help stop this crazy, this crazy waste. Because that's impossible. I think that's really impossible. Where else are we going? Where to? And believe me, even if we asked the army today, which I am extremely respectful of, if we were to say whether we would stop a little bit of this moment, this country would not have the money to pay for all of this, what you want to do these days or these weeks. That we did this to ZIPS, what we're doing now, is absolutely wrong. Legally, it's wrong. But if we can't agree, if the Legal and Legal Service can't say so, then the Constitutional Court will have to tell its own. If it says what you don't want it to say, you'll say the Constitutional Court is on the left. And I will respect the Constitutional Court, which is what it will say. But this moment is no different than us playing all the cards we can. But not to get political points, but to stop some things because they are not going in the right direction. That's my opinion. They're not going. I don't think that money is there. I don't think that money is for everything you want to do. We still have lockdown in some parts of the economy today, we don't know how to save the restaurant, we don't know how to save tourism. Now we'd be spending, not spending, and now we'd be channeling money into the army. I don't think this moment in the army has to be given money because we don't have it. Because we don't have it for health care because we don't have it for education because we don't have it for social services. All the money we have is debt money. I'd expect a lot more words from the secretary of state here. I'll stand against the conclusion that the referendum is not appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Luke Moon has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! I would also like to repeat a very similar point to my predecessor. In my position, which I have presented as the position of the Group of Members, I have said that the EUR 780 million you intend to spend on weapons is the sum that health care will not see in investment terms in ten years, long-term care in twenty-seven, and housing policy in more than one hundred if we remain on current trends. But the current trends are that you say that money is and you act like money is unlimited. The Fiscal Council recently issued a report showing that you have spent so much money within three months to realize half of this year's projected deficit. If this goes on, this year's deficit will double by the end of the year. At the same time, what will you do? Under this law, you will have the right to sign 780 million arms contracts beyond this budget, beyond the mandate of this government. Who's gonna pay them off? The next government, and the government for it, goes on like that. By 2027, we'll be paying off your debts and your arms business. In the meantime, there'll be no money for nothing, because we're gonna have to save. Since Europe will have a slightly different climate, Germany will change its mind and say that fiscal rules need to be reinvigorated. Remember, we still have a fiscal rule in Slovenia, only you are currently in some foam that is suspended, and you will have to cut everywhere else. But we will pay off your purchases of weapons, which will not only be €780 million. The transport aircraft currently purchased by the Ministry of Defence jumped from 50 planned to 72 million euros within three months. In the end, it'll be a billion. Finally, what we are talking about today will literally be the new TES6. That's how we're gonna look at this in six years. But there won't be any money for any other thing. Europe expects us to start adapting to climate change. Where are we gonna get the money? Young people, I told you before, are in a situation where literally some guys want to charge them 340 euros for an apartment where there is a bathroom, a toilet, a kitchen and a bed. You're saying, we've called, I don't know, 2,000 new places in nursing homes. Yeah, because about that many hands can't clap anymore. Here we are. And don't joke that you're going to ban people from deciding whether or not we're going to give 780 million for guns. A worse moment for such a move, we literally couldn't have chosen. I will therefore vote against this referendum being banned because we are not at risk of any military danger. We're in danger of a million other things. What you're doing today is threatening democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-04-13-SDZ8-Izredna-70.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 70th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
