ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Igor Zorčič from 9.30 a.m. to 11 p.m., Nik Prebil, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Karmen Furman, Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, Aleksander Reberšek, Andrej Černigoj, Tadej Šuštar Zalar from 18 hrs, Franz Rosec, Nada Brinovšek, Iva Dimič from 15 hrs, Bojana Muršič, Matjaž Han, Monika Gregorčič from 14 h.m., Aljaž Kovačič, Ivan Hršak from 11 h.m. and Branko Simonovic from 15 h.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Holidays and Free Days Act in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with Mark Bandelli, the first to be signed. The bill is at the 32nd session of the 9th session. 9. 2021 considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Dušan Šiško, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone! The Republic of Slovenia has 21 holidays ahead of the other Member States of the European Union. The 11th of November, or Martino, which is known to everyone as a folk holiday when the must is transformed into wine, is to be marked as a state holiday that would not be a day off. The initiative is not new, for it was considered 30 years ago in the National Assembly. There would be no collapse of the economy, as there would be no further loss of working hours or an increase in obligations for employers. It bothers us that only drink is raised and food is forgotten, as Slovenia is a European gastronomy region in 2021. This year, with health challenges, we also have the opportunity to raise gastronomy to an even higher level together. In Slovenia we have various culinary festivals, and events, but perhaps we could consider a culinary holiday because we notice that Slovenians are real gourmets. We also find it embarrassing that there is no human custom on the list of unimaginable cultural heritage — a family holiday that includes family, neighbors, relatives. In the Slovenian National Party, we have therefore taken the initiative to add to the list of registered units of intangible heritage colliding which have long tradition in our area. It grieves us that our proposal to establish a new holiday, the day of the first encounter with the invader on Slovenian soil, which would be celebrated on May 13th and would not be a day off, has not received sufficient support in the National Assembly. Under the line, the bill is very attractive, but Slovenia and Slovenia can enjoy good food and drink without a state holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues! We are reminded of the key historical events in the history of the Slovenian people, which have contributed significantly to the formation of our national identity and contributed to the establishment of a independent state. The festivals reflect the general social consensus, for they unite us and strengthen our common membership of the nation and the country. On this occasion, the drafter proposes a Martin as a new state holiday, which would not be a day off. By celebrating November 11th, it is intended to unite and show its recognition to all wine growers, winemakers, and wine lovers. In addition, the national celebration of this people's festival is intended to honor winemaking as part of the Slovenian tradition and identity of the nation. In Slovenia we have a long tradition of celebrating martinis, celebrated according to human jokes and customs in wine-growing countries. Celebration of the day when must turns into wine is certainly one of the most popular holidays celebrated by a large number of people. Some Slovenian municipalities in wine-growing countries have already declared this day a municipal holiday and each year they host a mass gathering that attracts tourists from both local and foreign places. The proposal to declare martinis a state holiday, which would be a day off, is certainly interesting and worth considering. It could certainly increase the importance of Slovenian winemaking and gastronomy based on locally produced food and agricultural crops. We would also encourage an addition to the tourism development of individual wine-growing areas and accelerate the promotion of Slovenian wines at home and around the world. On the other hand, there are professional concerns about the appropriateness of the proposal to declare a martini a state holiday, which is primarily a people's holiday and is celebrated by local jokes and customs. We mark in particular important historical events with State holidays, which were crucial in the design of Slovenian identity and have led to the creation of a single country. We are confident that, regardless of whether or not the National Assembly declares it a state holiday, this people's holiday will continue to be a mass celebration, especially in wine-growing environments and countries. In these places, Martino already represents one of the most important celebrations of the year, which, in our view, will continue to promote Slovenian wine and wine successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Before us is the amendment of the Holidays and Work Act, which proposes that the holiday of Saint Martin on November 11th be officially recorded as a state holiday. A holiday that doesn't work on a day off. The question of Left always remains the same when deciding whether it is meaningful or useful. What would that bring to people, not politicians? What would this do for the working majority, the workers, and their families? Is it important for a worker to have the protocol function of the holiday and the opportunity for a phototerm of a local official, or is it crucial for him to be free on the day of the holiday, so that he can rest and spend time in the way he wants? What good is a holiday of wine if only some can drink it? The idea of a righteous work that we advocate in Levica is, of course, broader. The next step in the evolution of the fight for labour rights, which has already been fought by an eight-year-old and free weekend, is clear — shorter working hours, fewer working days and less work for higher pay. Technological progress and the robotics of work processes bring more productivity and should require less work from the worker. A shorter working week, more work free days and more free time for updating itself is therefore the only possible, for workers a just change, everything else is larifari and political pear. In Levica, we therefore support the idea of a new state holiday, if these work are free days. The present proposal does not meet this condition, so we do not support it. In addition to the fact that marriage brings nothing to the vast majority of the population and that the subject of the holiday is completely arbitrary — it would be easy to celebrate anything else, perhaps more or less important — it is basically another Roman Catholic holiday, fourth, after Christmas, Mary’s ascension, a great night and a Pentecostal Sunday. In Slovenia we have almost 60 registered religious communities and thousands of people who do not belong to any. In view of the constitutional requirement for separation between the Church and the State and in view of the dominant influence of one religious community, such a proposal is disputed. St. Martin's national holiday, where politicians will drink free wine and the rest will have to work, we don't support it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering a proposal to amend the Holidays and Work Act. The SAB party proposed a new State holiday, which was held on 11 November by St. Martin. A state holiday of martinis does not exist in any European country. In Slovenia we already have several national holidays, which are not celebrated by other European countries, and on the other hand we do not mark holidays known by many European countries, such as the holy three kings on January 6th, the spring Pentecostal Monday, the holiday of the Holy Body and the blood. Interestingly, a Christian - based national holiday was taken up by a party that calls Christians naked and does not seem at all controversial. Initiative for the introduction of a State holiday [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u9	I'm sorry, Mrs. Tadeja. Dear Mr Bandelli, I respectfully ask that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that you do not interfere with the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. Tadeja, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u10	In May, the European Order of Wine Knights was reinvigorated in the Society, which also turned to our parliamentary group. They based their proposal on the argument that martinis are a recognized element of the identity of the Slovenian people. For 2021 Slovenia was named the European Gastronomy Region. They believe that the announcement of November 11th this year would enrich the state programme prepared by Slovenia in the chain of events of the gastronomic region. Martin's party is considered a gem in the mosaic of Slovenian gastronomy, without wine there is no gastronomy. This is based on the position of UNESCO, which protected French lunches in 2010 as a intangible cultural heritage of mankind. The key element in a protected meal is the harmony between dishes and wines. In Slovenia 121 churches are dedicated to Saint Martin, which means that Saint Martin in Slovenia is recognized as a saint who is strongly associated with our culture and tradition. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that decisions on new State holidays must be weighed very well. State holidays by nature cannot be much if we want them to preserve their essence. For with the abundance of festivals, a special meaning of the day is being summed up to him by the status of the State holiday. That is why we voted against the amendment of the law on the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bandelli, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u12	You are now the president here and please inform Nova Slovenija's client that the SAB has never said that Christian Democrats are a nuisance, never! Please take note of this and say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u13	Your Honor, this is not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal concerns the management of the meeting and I have warned you that you have violated Article 75(3) of the Rules of Procedure. That's it. Thank you very much. Now you have the floor to present the position of the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Your Honor! Martinovo is a popular folk holiday and a recognized element of the identity of the Slovenian people. At that time, after the final harvests in the wine cellars, the wine is already turned into wine. The source for this important event for Slovenians dates back to pre-Christian times. In the SAB Group, we tabled a proposal for a law that proposed to mark November 11 as a holiday of wine and culinary – a martini that was supposed to be working on a day off. Martin's Day is also called Martin's Day, St. Martin's Day, Martin's Day, Martin's Martin's Day, Martin's Martin's Day, his Martin's Day, his Martin's Day, his Martins, his twilights, his charms – from here, his verbs for smoldering, to feast on Martin's Martin's Martin's Day – the fall desert, because it's the fall farm's work that comes with food and drink. Since the Middle Ages, Martin’s fairs have also been linked to Martin’s Martina, since they paid the wages to servants and workers on that day. By the end of World War II and up to the 1970 ’ s, celebrations by villages were characteristic. It was associated with joy at the end of the year, the end of the seasonal work and the shepherding celebration elsewhere in Europe, and also with some other jokes and works. Since the late 1970s, martinis have developed into a characteristic celebration of young wine, wine and wine culture in general. However, the historical aspect is not the only one that offers arguments to mark the tradition as a national holiday. The main aspects are also gastronomic, economic and, ultimately, agricultural. 8. Ten. 2018 Slovenia was awarded the official title of the European Gastronomy Region 2021 as part of the European Week of Regions and Cities in Brussels. The latter is of exceptional importance for the promotion of national cuisine and gastronomy. It promotes sustainable gastronomic tourism, local self-sustainment, stresses the importance of nutrition for health and provides support to small and medium-sized enterprises. Slovenia is a classic European wine-growing country and its specialty is in the fragmentation of the wine-growing property. In Slovenia we produce wine in nine wine-growing environments, which are integrated into three wine-growing countries. The wine crop is between 800 thousand and 900 thousand hectolitres a year. During the 48 vine varieties grown, white vine varieties dominate. Slovenia is one of the countries where vines are grown at a higher percentage of agricultural area than in the rest of the European Union. We have 3.4% of all agricultural land in use for the production of grapes. Although the proposal for a law on the home labour body has not received sufficient support for further consideration, I conclude that the SAB is of the opinion that it is a missed opportunity to restart hospitality and tourism in general. Many congregations rejoiced that day because it was proclaimed a congregation holiday. In 2021 Slovenia named the European Gastronomy Region and could, with a national holiday, not work a day off, of course, further confirm the reputation and position on the international map of gastronomy masters, culinary decorations and already internationally recognised winegrowers and winemakers. In particular, we thank the European Order of the Knights of Wine for the initiative in the hope that the initiative can be repeated in the future and will successfully endure the support of the National Assembly. They say it's going to the third better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a culturally diverse country, ranging from words to customs, customs and food. What is considered a tradition in one village may not apply to the neighboring village. But we are united by a common tradition that has been expressed throughout history and has been accompanied by us for centuries. Holidays, such as Martin’s, Stéphane’s, and some other Christian festivals, have their foundations in the pre - Christian period. Our ancient ancestors who settled in this area were characterized by a deep connection with nature through the cultivation of the earth. Even today, especially those who live in villages and cultivate the earth celebrate these ancient festivals. Today, of course, these celebrations are in a completely different form, attracting many curious people to the events. The tourist potential of our country is incredible. In the past, if we have focused on the beauty of our places, more cultural and gastronomic beauty has also awakened in recent years. Celebrations such as the Ptuj Course attract every year the troupes of tourists who are enthusiastic about the performances. Stefan's offer of horse parades and trade shows every year in certain places. Martinov, as the proposalr pointed out, expressed our rich gastronomic tradition. In the Desus Group, we agree that the potential in this area is great. In recent years, people have been drawn to exciting food and drink offers. Olive oil, salt, wine, sweets and food, this is all part of our culture and it is right to present it to our visitors, as well as to younger generations, who have lost much of their contact with the past. In the Desus Group, we welcome our rich culinary offer at the country level as well. A holiday of Martinovo, which already has a deep tradition in Slovenia, would also give new meaning and new impetus by defining as a national holiday. Even though the proposal has not been adopted on the working body, we must all take advantage of its potential together. Some holidays are really meant to promote the lower part of people, but in the Desus Group we do not think that we really need to separate. In all municipalities, towns, and villages, celebrating traditional holidays, visitors or other places will never be rejected. It is only at such events that the hospitality of the simple Slovenian population can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The purpose of the proposed novel, which we have on the table today, is to mark November 11th, i.e. Martin's, as a state holiday that would not be a day off. The proposal is intended to symbolically unite and honor all wine growers, winemakers and wine lovers. At the same time, the proposer highlights the possibility of linking the newly proposed holiday with the municipal holidays announced by some Slovene municipalities on this day and the related possibilities for additional tourism development of individual wine-growing areas. We wonder whether this kind of holiday of content, according to the rest of the national holidays that we mark in Slovenia, is suitable for regulating in legal matter at national level. At the same time, we are concerned about the possible grading of the basic purpose and purpose of the Holidays and Work Act in the Republic of Slovenia, if the number of legally defined holidays that are not part of the work is further increased. This day, Martin's, could be clearly marked traditionally every year also on the basis of a different way of performing. The purpose of the law, which regulates holidays, is to establish holidays and holidays that have general meaning or significance for all or most of the citizens, so the holiday arrangements and holidays must certainly correspond to the actual relationship of our citizens with regard to the importance of certain dates that should be given them a special mark. The proposal would serve only the promotion of a narrow circle of people, but it would not affect the higher quality of life of people, which should be its basic purpose. While the Holidays and Work Act currently provides for 15 part days off, the arrangements in Slovenia are comparable to those in other European countries, in the upper part of which the number of days off varies from 10 to 15. In addition, the law provides for six more holidays, which are not part of the day off. Since 2005, the system of the Act has thus changed by establishing holidays that are not part of the day off. We therefore point out that by increasing the number of holidays that are not part of the day, there is no longer a fundamental purpose of the law and a clear and comparable definition of holidays in the country. It would therefore be useful to consider the future separation of content. While we agree in the Group of Non-Related Members that the proposed mark of 11 November is a traditional celebration of a wine holiday, which is of great importance for the promotion of national cuisine and gastronomy, strengthens sustainable gastronomic tourism and contributes to the promotion of local self-sustainment, but at the same time the proposed new holiday day is a martini, it is our view that it is a departure from the content of the remaining holidays, which are mostly of a religious nature or are linked to the statehood of each country and are currently assigned to them in both the Republic of Slovenia and in the European Union. In addition, we reiterate that some Slovenian municipalities, especially those from wine-growing areas, have already declared November 11 their municipal holiday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. IN 24. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the regulation of the premises and a proposal for a building law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft laws were tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to these bills, the Group of 43 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr Matthew Tashner Vatovci, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Andrei Visiak, Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u20	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Before you are two important laws in the field of space regulation and construction, the law governing an effective relationship between effective interventions into space, including the planning of these interventions, self-building, self-implementation, control over this. Many stakeholders are involved, while this is also legislation limiting interventions that are not acceptable to the Slovenian landscape to urban areas. In short, the relationship between interventions and the protection of space in Slovenia is important and, therefore, we wanted to find this point of balance by recasting both the Space Regulation and the Construction Law in order to enable effective interventions, but also controlled intervention into space, building that is consistent with strict environmental, nature protection and other standards of modern society. On the other hand, this construction must be effective so that, if construction is acceptable, the investor can achieve its objective within a reasonable time. So both laws are not about any reform change, they are not about putting an existing system on the head and introducing some new, different reform solutions, but are mainly about the necessary changes in two ways. First time. Three years since they were established, the implementation of existing legislation has served with a few arguments or has shown some weaknesses in these solutions and we are removing them by these regulations and, on the other hand, we want to make construction effective, with less bureaucratic complications and the achievement of some standards of a modern developed world in this area. Why are they new marriages? They are new marriages because they have actually been corrected by quite a bunch of articles, and if we go with the novel, it would be very imprecise. As a result, two entirely new texts were decided for easier consideration. The legislation was coordinated with a very wide circle, with non-governmental organisations, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Engineers, the Chamber of Architecture, with municipalities, and to the greatest extent coordinated. I would also like to point out, firstly, that we may avoid future discussions, that we have reached an agreement with non-governmental organisations on foreign participation in these construction processes, in particular in the issue of an integrated building permit, and that we will propose more broadly to the coalition and to the National Assembly, as this text does not recognise to NGOs the status of foreign participation in the integrated building permit procedures. The government will support the amendments in the sense that this status is given to them, which means that this also eliminates the only issue against this law. What are the key solutions? Perhaps very quickly, especially in the area of construction, I will count some of them, about 10. First time. The possibility of building buildings that do not need an environmental impact assessment with a final construction permit is said to be possible to build when the decision is enforceable. To date, it has been possible to build only on the basis of a legally binding building permit. That means a lot earlier. A legal basis for the so-called eBuilding has been established. We want the issue of building permits to take place electronically, which means that the entire course of applications, the acquisition of documentation, including monitoring at the construction stage, and, last but not least, the issue of the building permit itself will be fully electronic, digitised. This is an important step, and we need some time to do so, but it is envisaged that by the end of 2024 this will also be fully alive. Solutions to temporary facilities, in particular warehouses, are being simplified. For economic operators, the need for construction is often due to developments and it is possible to set up a storage facility with economic operators as a temporary facility for a period of three years and, at that time, to legalise it accordingly. There is considerable simplification in obtaining a usable permit for one-bedroom houses. It will be possible to obtain a usable permit on the basis of a building permit and a statement by the supervisory authority that the construction is in conformity with the regulations and with the building permit or documentation issued. There's a lot of simplification with regard to longer-lasting objects. We are moving the 2005 anniversary and it will be possible for all facilities to obtain this permit before that, which to a certain extent replaces the building permit. The municipalities will subsequently issue an opinion on the compatibility of construction with the spatial implementing act, which will make it significantly easier to obtain a building permit. There will be no more conflicts between the officials of the administrative units issuing the building permit and the municipalities regarding compliance. This is an important step that will be possible in cases where construction is not disputed, where operators of space regulation are uniform and where there are no complainants by side participants, to obtain a building permit within 30 days. Unwanted facilities will then be subject to supervision by municipalities or municipal officials. Disputes between people are often reflected through applications and inspection procedures. Inspectors also have their hands full because of this, and it is right to exercise control over simpler matters through the municipal supervisory services. In the case of more demanding engineering facilities, phased acquisition, phase of application of construction will be possible and consequently the phase of project acquisitions will be possible. In fact, for projects lasting from three to four years, such as some major, in particular energy facilities, it is pointless to obtain projects for the start of construction for all phases of construction, including those that will be in turn in two to three years. Then we introduce the principles of the circular economy. Excavations or constructions result in a series of excavations and others, which can be used again in construction. This is more comprehensively regulated by this law. There is also quite a dilemma with regard to the payment of the municipal contribution. The law provides for a compromise solution that, when a complete eBuilding is established, this electronic system is said to introduce the payment of the municipal contribution at the beginning of the construction, not at the stage of obtaining the building permit. Until the electronic system is fully in place, however, we anticipate payment of the municipal contribution just as it is now before obtaining the building permit. There is something else that is set up so that we on the one hand support professionalism and at the same time efficiency in construction. It's just about the law on space regulation. All those who have any contact with local communities know that these procedures are simply too long. That is why we are shortening them, and some stages of procedures are being abolished and we are introducing a so-called project approach. For we want the manufacturers of spatial implementing acts, together with the initiators, i.e. municipalities and potential investors, to undertake these changes or even spatial implementing acts in a project, to harmonise this with the regulators of space, even before things go formally into the process, so that the formal process is as short and as effective as possible, because at this informal stage it can be much more harmonised, all are slightly more open to finding solutions, less formal and the result is that the agreement and compromise are closer. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've done a lot of work at the Ministry. This is an important change that is not reformable, but it is important for efficient construction, building that will be in line with all environmental and spatial standards, which is, last but not least, a key objective of both laws' proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u22	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The building law and the law on the regulation of the premises are in a very close relationship and are interdependent, so we are considering both laws together. The essential purpose of both laws is to reduce red tape of all procedures and, secondly, to introduce all data and procedures in digital form, which will speed up all processes in a quicker solution. If we think back, every time construction and spatial laws were amended, they were said in some way, we would shorten procedures, but they were always extended. This time we are moving into digital form, controlling will be more visible and actually really faster, so that I believe that this law will actually make this commitment, that procedures will be reduced, even realized. With today’s passing of both marriages to the first reading, marriages are also given public treatment. This is an invitation for all experts in this area to study the proposal and to make all their professional suggestions for both laws. All the board members have already participated in the preparation of proposals for both laws on the table, such as the ZPAS, the Engineering Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, associations of municipalities, colleges, institutes and others. The renovation or amendment builds on the procedures already in place. On the basis of identified shortcomings and errors, existing regulatory solutions are being corrected and complemented by allowing for quicker resolution and more efficient implementation of the construction procedure in ensuring the equal protection of all public interests and administrative safety of all participants in construction. Let me summarize the improvements. I believe that these will happen again and again today, because there are some improvements that will speed up the procedures radically. The possibility of obtaining a building permit following a reduced finding procedure within 30 days in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act and its treatment through the eSpace State Portal and eBuilding. So that these 30 days will not be understood as misleading, this is, of course, the target date when the entire e-system will actually be established. That no one will think that we actually think it will be from tomorrow. It is necessary to wait for eBuilding and eSpace to be established. It is also necessary to establish a legal basis for electronic business. The issue of a building permit, which is indeed possible within 30 days, also allows the fact that the administrative unit will no longer verify the substantive compliance with the spatial act, but will now be delegated to the municipality itself which is the manufacturer and the author of this spatial act. In the process of obtaining a building permit, municipalities will issue one document combining content, location information and a certificate of intended use. The law again allows the investor to start building on his own responsibility after the completion of the building permit when it comes to facilities that are not connected to environmental impacts. It shall also be possible to carry out the examination by means of audiovisual techniques. During this time, we have learned this from almost all of us, and this has been the most learned by our schoolchildren, who have actually spent almost a year in this technique. And of course, this technique is faster, and it will also be able to use it here. Entrepreneurs will be able to place temporary, up to three years in their yard in addition to existing facilities and, if necessary, to obtain parallel building permits for such a facility. A smaller reconstruction is introduced, bridging the gap between the maintenance parts and the reconstruction. If I give an example, whether it's changing windows or changing roof structures, one is maintenance work, and the other is actually reconstruction. So now this resolution is clear and separate. The dose of the municipal contribution shall be carried out after the building permit has been obtained, that is to say before the construction begins. This provision shall not apply immediately, but after the establishment of electronic commerce. Once e-commerce is established, it will be possible to exercise effective and consistent control over the application of the start-up work, which is also the deadline for payment of the municipal contribution. Here are some concerns of certain congregations in the process itself. In the public dilation, the municipalities will make their suggestions, and in fact all possible abuses will be recorded and controlled by the establishment of eBuilding and eSpace. In this way, the real room for manoeuvre in the payment of the municipal contribution can be managed, as it is possible to record very precisely. Here we already have the first opinion of the Community of Communities and the Association of Municipal Communities, but agreements are still under way and the municipalities will also give further suggestions on the reasons given and on the answers given to both associations. Inspection of non-requisition facilities may also be carried out by municipal inspections. As a novelty, under certain conditions the possibility of using materials and products already in use is offered, following the principles of a sustainable and circular economy. Of course, it's a rational use of construction materials, so we don't throw them away. It is possible to obtain a usable permit for one-house houses in an easier and cheaper way. For facilities built up to 1. 6. 2018, the scope of the Annexes and the building permit is lower, which is the basis. The provisions relating to legalisation shall be maintained and partially complemented by allowing for legalisation for parts of the facility. At the same time, it is clearly stated that an illegal object must be completed in order to be able to issue a legalisation decision deemed to be a usable authorisation. It is easier to obtain authorisation for an existing longer-lasting object, this is meant for those buildings that were built before 1. 1. 2005. In parallel, the legal fiction of the issued usable permit for one-bedroom buildings which were built in accordance with the building permit before 1 must, of course, be established. 6. 2018, as previously stated. In cases where a damaged facility needs to be repaired as soon as possible due to natural and other accidents, the possibility of setting up the original condition shall be introduced only on the notification of the start of the construction. Temporary objects placed among them in the event of an emergency may also be placed in such a manner. In the event of the removal of objects which touch or are within a distance of one metre from private buildings, the acquisition of a building permit shall be re-examined. A mandatory review of the implementation documentation shall be established where the project is made on the basis of the so-called unrecommended method. What is an unrecommended method? This is said to be a project built over some technical and technical guidelines. We also have such facilities, and it is right that this possibility is also established here. The novelty is a provision allowing for the introduction of a procedure for the granting of a building permit without supporting evidence of the right to build for infrastructure facilities. I am talking about large, long line buildings of state importance, because they are state infrastructure, remotes, motorways and so on, where there is an extremely large number of parcels, and thus extremely many owners. We know quite a few examples of bad practice from the past, such as when one plot held a process for six months or even more for an object that is long, I don't know, 30 kilometers. In the procedures for issuing a building permit, the administrative authorities will have to take into account consistently the opinion of the competent authorities and bodies acting as rapporteurs in the procedure, which is also applicable to carrying out the conformity of the building with the spatial acts where the auditor is a municipality. A process of predominance of public benefit is better regulated where the Ministry of Environment and Space has the authority to issue a building permit. There are also such exceptional cases and the Ministry of Environment and Space has this responsibility. Newly, the construction law regulates the procedure concerning the postponement of enforcement followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, the so-called right to respect at home. I'm talking about demolition. We know a case of bad practice. This case is also settled on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and introduced into the law itself. The legal traffic in immovable property which does not have a valid permit shall be released. In this case, legal traffic may be released, but the customer knowingly and boundly takes over all the behaviours that are actually the obligations set out in this Title. Possibility of delay in operation, although it does not have a building permit or a usable permit. This is mainly about any major infrastructure projects, the pipeline or some section of the highway and so on, and this is where this option is established. There's something else about the space law. This aims to link the local, regional and national levels in the area of spatial planning, building equipment and real estate management. With the existing laws, this topic was very broad; interpretations were different. There have been quite a few negative examples of practice, mainly due to the many existing forms of spatial plans, there has been quite a mix-up. The proposed law fundamentally changes the combined state spatial planning process and the issue of a comprehensive permit, including the construction permit of buildings with special environmental impacts. The law also takes great account of climate change, as the principle of sustainable and regulated space is complemented and spatial arrangements need to be planned in a way that is climate-safe and neutral and allows climate change to be reduced. The proposal also considers that only standard and coherent spatial data can be a more appropriate basis for the needs of spatial, land and tax policies in Slovenia, to monitor the achievement of sustainable development objectives, as well as to provide quality and expertise-based support for decision-making in further spatial development. This will provide a clearer and transparent system of spatial acts, an orderly upgrade of spatial strategic planning at the regional level, as well as planning at sea, which we also have. Establishment of project management in state spatial planning through more active participation of space regulators. Upgrading the process of preparation of the municipal detailed plan as a basic spatial act of the municipality with a view to its more effective treatment. At the present time, if I give an example, the procedures for the preparation of the municipal detailed plan in the municipalities are absolutely long. It is often the case that the authors of detailed spatial plans extend this comprehensive municipal act excessively with a number of spatial data, which is not necessary in most cases. By doing so, these procedures only extend to the very realization. Modernising land policy measures with a view to making better use of space, developing building plots and managing municipalities with building plots. Legislation is kind and responsive to NGOs. In project management, the current absolute competence of architects is also divided into other engineering professions. In view of the object’s or project’s purpose, it is right that this option remains an engineering profession. The main solutions identified by the Government will be tested within individual tasks and implemented in the areas of selected municipalities and development regions. Finally, let me mention another current case of bad practice. Architects avoid areas of certain administrative units by working on certain projects because the deadlines for the resolution of applications are unreasonablely long, with a number of new and new requests for supplementation. And it is solely with the aim of proving and justifying its work by the number of administrative procedures, which is, of course, totally unacceptable, but in practice this is happening. Let me get this straight. In Slovenia we have an administrative unit where the average time from application to building permit is 261 days. I'm talking about the average. This means that half of the procedures last even longer. The objective and wishes of the economy, all business investors, private investors, natural persons and, last but not least, of the country that is the largest investor, is that construction legislation is friendly, not glass in general rapid development. This will speed up the adoption of spatial acts and reduce the time taken to obtain construction permits. That we're not even talking about significant financial savings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support both the proposals, the construction law and the space regulation law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Space is a limited good and has always been a natural city around which social development has taken place. Often, on the one hand, private interests, on the other hand, collide with public interest in space management. As a modern society, we should understand the sensitivity and importance of public interest, especially when it comes to regulating our living environment. The basis of any public policy on environmental management should be an understanding of public benefit and public interest. The content of both concepts is specified and filled by the right legislator, and it is also important what laws we adopt in the field of environmental protection and building legislation. It is for the sake of the protection of the public interest that construction-space legislation is of paramount importance. The two laws that we are considering today should not only address fundamental problems in the area of building and regulating the premises, but should also simplify the fragmented regime and make it more transparent, longer-term and complicated procedures, and even more so, both proposals of the law should respect the protection of nature and the environment in a consistent manner. The fact that the proposal for a construction law is restrictively amending the provisions on foreign participants in the construction permit process is not in the spirit of providing these basic guides. Environmental protection NGOs are those who are often advocates of public interest and the protection of the natural environment, and the Government wants to limit them completely in their mission by means of a new proposal. It is not insignificant to point out that a party has a substantive role to play in each administrative procedure and that when the Government of the Environmental Protection Organisation wants to remove from the circle of foreign participants, we are not doing any good and added value to our environment. To be honest, this is a bad solution in marriage. Given the importance of the public benefit mentioned above, in the LMŠ we would like to draw attention to another not good solution to the law on space regulation. In the new Article 19, the Government is significantly violating the conditions under which one public benefit can prevail over another public benefit. The so-called Institute of the Predominance of Public Benefit will no longer be subject to four conditions, which must be met cumulatively, i.e. together, but for the use of this institution, where the public benefit is decided by the Government, there is only one requirement and only one condition, and this is that the expected effect of the public benefit which prevails is greater than the adverse consequences for the public benefit which it has prevailed. This simply means that with a new proposal, the Government takes a significantly greater discretionary right to decide when a public benefit, such as setting up an industrial plant, prevails over the public benefit of environmental protection. In view of the experience we have had in trying to implement the controversial proposal of the Law on Waters, we have doubts in the LMŠ Group about the well-intention of such a change. In our opinion, the added value does not even bring new arrangements for public architecture competitions. They won't be obliged to you after the new one. In the LMŠ Group, we are confident that in this way we will lose one of the most quality, innovative and transparent ways of putting public facilities into space. Such facilities, public infrastructure competitions are also an opportunity for all young unenforced architects and designers. Most importantly, the public infrastructure competition will address the area in an integrated manner, which is crucial for the quality of the bibian environment. The Construction Law also introduces changes regarding participants in the process of issuing an integrated building permit and their legal protection. And while in the grave, we understand the Government's intention to simplify and speed up administrative procedures in the integrated procedure, it is not possible to overlook the opinion of the Administrative Court. In their view, the proposed decommissioning of administrative authorities is at the expense of the judicial authorities, as the case would have increased significantly in the administrative court. This is because an environmental assessment of the planned construction is also necessary in the integrated process, which is later subject to judicial protection, which makes the matter difficult both in fact and in legal terms. In such proceedings, many different interests are often affected, which makes it necessary to carry out the main proceedings under legal protection, to prove with an expert, and so on, all of which affect the complexity and duration of the proceedings before the administrative court. The notice of the administrative court that the time limit for the administrative dispute is too short is, in our opinion, on the ground, and therefore our call to the government representatives to listen to warnings and recommendations from the professional public. Both construction and space regulation laws are basically not bad, but they would need to be corrected and coordinated at least in those parts where the professional public reminds you of non-life and professionally inappropriate solutions. For example, I am talking about the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Administrative Court. Some of the amendments were re-entered in the draft text only in the final stage when the public hearing was concluded and the text was already in the government information system. Of course, this is not in the spirit of open and transparent public treatment, and in the LMŠ we regret that at the Ministry of Environment and Space you have re-enacted the same maneuver as in the consideration of the novel Water Act. Given that today is only the first reading and we are likely to be given even more detailed consideration on the home committee, in the LMŠ Group we are allowing the coalition this time to listen to our proposal and to correct or improve the legal text in the following proceedings. So today, we will not oppose the proposed construction law and the regulation of space.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary with the team, the rest of you, have a nice hello! I'm going to take some time, and it saddens me a little bit that with such important legislation, there's probably not going to be enough debate at first reading, but there's going to be so few of us in the hall. Why? From space and time to beginning each of us through life to death, to post-mortem, to decomposition, to the way he remembers and reminds us, we are all human beings, is the being of space, of time. Immanuel Kant has already taught us that these are aprioral categories of spirit. What we refer to as architecture or urbanism in a narrower sense, but if you want infrastructure, utilities and so on, it must be patient, permanent, and even amortization should not consume too much of our money, it must be functional and not harming even if it is beautiful, aesthetic. Those of you who have studied these studies, you know who I quote, the spanning of time and space. Because then, after all, we all live better and longer and healthier together. These words that I have just said are the words that I always say at the opening lecture of any study where I teach or teach spatial themes. As a result, these laws are always living matter. The younger generations would say: “Work and progress.” I would like to personally, as well as the Social Democrats, where I am the first trumpet of this area in order to settle this in a way that is, say, governed by one of the Scandinavian countries. You have one quality roof marriage and you have one very good law on environmental impact assessments. And not because someone would guess, but because it's necessary. You know, as they say a little in the new age manners, the ancestors gave us an environment and space if I mention the name of the ministry, and we need to make sure that the grandchildren and their grandchildren get it in such a state and so on. What is the state of political and general culture in a constitutional parliamentary democracy, it is very well seen through spatial legislation and through whether or not we adhere to this spatial legislation. In short, whether we have some sort of spatial order or not. What is the decomposition or quality of life in a society, you know, but you can see very well if you're driving down the highway and in front of cities and looking at how many buildings, especially individual buildings, are without, according to your household, facades. Let's say one of the changes that is being introduced here, and the right-hand side will certainly make a little populism use of it, and in the human language, it's said that you can officially go to the byte to live, if you don't have this or a facade, on the other hand, we're going to talk about how we're going to go green, energy-efficient and so on. But of course we can't blame people, people just don't have pennies. Apparently, Minister Dikaucič doesn't have the money to pay that utility company that's not small enough for that congregation, so let's face it. We're also changing one of these two laws because a few of them told us we had to. This second law, ZUREP, contains some extensions that may be or may be constitutionally controversial. You know, with this kind of legislation, not just us, everywhere, there are two key challenges. Different societies, countries have different territorial arrangements for action. We have what we call the state, the national level, and the municipalities, which is basically local self-government, including some of their autonomy, and on the other hand, there are different professions that are involved in this. In those changes in the construction or spatial trio under Cerar's government – the one you have in memory – has slightly overpowered, let's say, the architectural profession. At that time, remember, especially landscape architects and architects rightly warned that they were somewhat overlooked. I am jokingly saying that I am surprised that both the current President of the Government and the man who is at least the last President of the Government is responsible for almost everything and lives in Murglah, a daughter who are both landscape architects and who have studied abroad. At least we're the same here, aren't we, amen? We live in the 21st century, you know. When I was born in a teaching apartment in a branch school in the Belokran village of Zilja, we had electricity from the infrastructure in the school. We didn't have a bathroom, we didn't have running water, we had a ferret, I was washing myself in a laurel, and I don't feel deprived of it because of some lady's fruit yogurt that I might have started to eat after twenty. Why am I bringing this up? In 50 years, a lot has changed and politics must not be caught in the bonds of one, another or third profession. In the 21st century, he deals with environmental and spatial issues and he would like us to be a little bit more Scandinavian in law. Due to the excessive amount of energy released, because we are notoriously wasteful, we have a changed, higher intensity of grip. It is enough if any of Slovenia's electricity gives you a 20-, 30-year graph and the number of grips throws you down and so on. What does that mean? This also means that we or we will have to take meteorologists and meteorologists into account to a greater extent in spatial problems. There was a big debate in Ljubljana when – which one already? – The Franciscan Church has re-painted how this is now. When something is being built, we will also have to consider someone who is understood, as we call it taught, to chromatics, and perhaps ended ALU. And I could even list it. I come from the section of sociology analysis where we may not be licensed as engineers or architects or urbanists in this cocktail, but we are the ones who know the most about the conflict of some interests in the room and who are also prepared for the rescue. One conflict in the ZUreP is, for example, the conflict between what is the jurisdiction of the national level and what is the jurisdiction and autonomy of the local self-government of the municipalities, which is also pointed out in the letters from one of the associations, the SOS, where they apparently have a team that does this very well and very thoroughly, as well as from the Ljubljana City Assembly, as well as from the municipality of Piran. It saddens me that that maribor letter is only one-sided, which somehow indicates the substantiation of this source already in the second largest Slovene municipality. If I am seriously reading this story, it is recorded that the ministry where you, Mr Minister, are essentially responsible for the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. That's not true. Strategies are being adopted here, 90 of us are responsible for any strategy. The Ministry of Justice is solely responsible for preparing a very good draft with a wide range of stakeholders, both professional and professional, through some professional ceho associations, if I may say so, as well as civil society. Then we have a problem that the Municipality of Piran reminds us of, and we would stay — how much? — one, two, three municipalities of the coastal zone can warn you how you would like to meet, the state, the ministry and local government on this beautiful issue of the good 46 kilometers of our coastal zone. At that time, I greatly welcomed the introduction of regional spatial planning after 30 years in fact without serious urbanism. Of course, countries that think themselves will first consider at national level what they will do with the environment and space, then at regional level this will change a little bit more operationally, then at the level of the OPN we will make even more operational, and then we will go to the OPPN where we are detailing. For those of you who are not so at home. However, there is no way that I can accept the fact, as is now enshrined in the legislation, that these RPNs will be implemented – who? Some kind of pendant at regional development agencies. Regional development agencies have some other purpose of an intermediator between the two levels of authority that has essentially collapsed because they do not have passive funding. In fact, it should be the other way around. Not because we're doing some offices or something because of something, we'd need some teams at some regional level. It doesn't have to be 500 people, 10, 12 people from different professions who would seriously do RPNs as living documents and also monitor them with their own autonomy, with their own financial resources, and not with the subjection of some RPN or anyone. What he was in Ljubljana and still, I think, is the LUZ – the Ljubljana Urban Institute, which had several people. We had something similar in Maribor, and it was half-diving. Here I also ask the professional question whether the division of Slovenia into some 12 regions originating in the development regions is a small division. After the force of the matter, I took my car back and now we all find out – but I am not crying, because I do not imagine that we should all back off now when we Members are going to the shikt – that we have an ever-increasing madhouse on the roads. And the folk is also exhausted from this covido and so on. But you know, if we're looking at the Ljubljana urban region, in practice it's not just those congregations that are formally made up. How many are there? 26, 27, Dushan, somewhere? But if we look at this axially, this is, according to the household, the whole of Gorenska, the whole of Notranska, probably still part of Primorska, part of Styria, part of Dolenjska. And now, how do you mean regionally? Certain, more developed infrastructure companies, more thinking, have gone to reducing the number of municipalities on the basis of just realizing that infrastructure is already at this level, that they need greater aggregations in a space where the next level of thought and work, for example, Denmark is such an example, Austria's Styria went to this, even Albania went to this. I have no illusions that this will happen to us, but apparently the applicant has an illusion that they will have – at congregation level – what do they call it? – some kind of municipal urbanist. Please don't have that Maribor. Jankovic has Mr Koželj, and I am professionally in agreement with him, and I do not. In Maribor, we had an urban world under Fištravec. How many were there, like 17, 20 in there? I don't know. Maybe Bane knows. And when they saw that we would be critical, not critical, they also realized how many pennies there were, as I say, it was quickly misleading. This would also require some institutions that would go to RPN and this story. The average Slovenian municipality has fewer than 5,000 people, one person is involved in this problem even if there is nothing else on its back. Then one of the three communists who have to do something there, then we might have a long-term rule, but now we'll give, I don't know, the long-term leaders – I'll say a little in the way of colleague Mark Bandell, I hope you won't mind me – that they'll go see whether our hens are okay or are a little nicer. Because the congregations also warn us that they will neither have resources nor have educated people. It seems to me that there is a mistake in this legislation, a mistake in our logic at all, that we should simply educate people. In order, as we have energy advice, we should have architectural and urban advice. Also, what looks good to us is that if we go to our colleague Reich, our colleague Bane, my colleague Ljubo, Bojan was also a parishioner and someone else, from a closer look, is that I should be forgiven, often half-cocked. As a rule, black construction, which you want to legalize a little bit. Someone has to teach people what's good, what's nice, why you have to take care of space. In this legislation, too, now a little too much on the line, as some warn, you want to legalise something. Of course you're going to knock again on the right side, yeah, see how we are for lunatics, up and down. But then we run into another problem. Go to the Slovenian countryside and you will have a three-generation family, they will have five cars in advance of three. Oma doesn't have it, he's gonna have it, he's gonna have to go somewhere. If the middle generation works at two different ends, kid, every car has to have its own, because we don't have serious traffic, we don't have enough jobs. Then some of these young people work where they work, and some of them are where you're in college, you know. These are some things that need to be considered, which will actually need to be reconsidered. And then, around the house, those half-steelers grow up to park those cars that we're obsessed with. That is how some serious spatial legislation is thought, and we are still light years away from it. Then there is our healing, which is also living in Parliament every day. I basically welcome, if I understand them correctly, those moves around the service. I'm just setting up a service myself, and luckily, I have normal people in front of me. But they're also moving in the law. As long as we have practical cases to actually have a stroke of some kind – the story of one of my fellow judges on the ground. Since they wanted a community road that was good for him, and they would eat, I don't know, 40 centimeters wide and 20 inches wide in his lawn, he was so against his death. It's not funny, that's who we are. I remember, there in the mid-1990s, when I started my profession, through twinning projects the Belgians came to us quite a bit and showed us how they dealt with these matters. Then you're young, you're full of yourself, you think, what are you selling me here, but they actually do. But then in this legislation we collide as you are nicely warned by the Municipality of Ljubljana – when do you allow someone to enter into a procedure? One is if you're working D.N.N. and you're relatively early with an investor. 2DK does this, blah blah blah. The second is if you work the UNO in Ljubljana, when you always have 300 potential investors. And if I were to cariculate a little bit, if my colleague Prekmurec were here, I'd say you have 30 people in Žižki who would work a dog's influence, they're potential investors. I have to say, times aren't so great. For that kind of legislation, it's too political. Another time. It is obvious that this has been brought into Parliament too soon in the light of all the initiatives. Here in Parliament, well, some of us are from the ranks, but some of you were mayors, vice-martials. Usually, Jani likes to be seen as a sub-martial city for the most incompetent people he doesn't hold. You were a valet too, weren't you, Bojan? If the mayor or the mayor is smart, he's the one who's supposed to push him into these things. [[…]] It seems to me that it would make sense for this law to stand down a little bit longer, to take more account of the many recommendations that are to consider something that is desirable on the one hand, what problems it causes on the other hand, in short, that you are not tying up construction and compensation. Yeah, kid, where else's the congregation gonna get the utility money from? You know, these are basically some stories that haven't been set up yet. I'm a little afraid that in this political overheating, someone will not go to the ZUreP to tear down the constitution, which would be possible in view of the inadequacy when, in fact, the state wants to interfere with the autonomy of local self-government, the municipalities. Then also, you know, a model, if I understand it correctly, that you will have at the Ministry a body composed of the rank of State Secretaries that will solve conflict, and then an associated body — how much? — 13 experts, where I understand the objections of local authorities correctly, will not be present either. My dears, this is not the 21st century, you know. In the 21st century, these processes need to be opened up, people involved, but not to go to statistics – of course, this word comes from a country – where you want to wrap something up, which will also, I hope, professionally claim, on the edge of corruption. In short, I could go even further into the details, I could draw out all those comments from the congregations that I generally agree with and that have somehow not been taken into account, but I hope that there will be some time through the debate for this. I am no longer a member of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee, but I am likely to participate. It seems to me that if we really want to have a quality marriage — whether we are left, right, Tonin’s middle, scarves — we probably all want to live in a quality space and environment — we will actually take the time to do so and listen. Also, what I said in more introductory terms – that we do not get caught on the tinica of diverse professions and their legitimate interests, but we try to understand them and we also try to understand and understand that there is a very varied range of professions involved in these matters. Consider seriously how we will more operationalise this between the inter-regional level and the municipal level. Don't put that on regional development agencies, please. Consider seriously how this conflict will be resolved. You know, after all, State Secretarys already have too much work to do. Are you gonna do that again or what? And of course, think beyond this and also about some strategies for both the socio-space development of Slovenia as well – here if Simona were here – a curriculum at all levels, from nursery away, how to basically educate us in and for spatial order, for beauty, for quality. Because that's how it's gonna move in the right direction, or it won't. There are 2 million of us, if I haven't dated your cousin before, at least I know her, and then we'll be looking for some curves. And of course, a lot of what's illegal, which is informal, which isn't the same, comes about simply because people don't have pennies. And how to cheapen the building – the electrolobs will not be happy again – to ask whether it really has to cost that much. You know, we're for the development of the countryside, so you can bring yourself to scrambling about 70 meters, mother dear, because you're paying so much for it, like you're supposed to be cooking that soup with you. That's not funny, that's some kind of fact. And as long as this is so, as long as people are actually poor in this area, that I am not talking about youth and housing policy at all, because there will be another topic, no leftist has anything to do with knocking the biggest red stars to wear, and no right-wing person has to talk about how patriotic and middle of anything. This is where I paraphrase the Maribor player Novak. Both marriages came to Parliament too early, and there is still a lot of work to be done in both laws. I'm not too optimistic in the situation as it is to be able to be serious enough to do this. We, the Social Democrats, of course, will not object in the first reading, we will listen, we will propose, we will amend, but there is a difficult task ahead of us. And just for the end of the day, don't take it lightly. This government boasts so madly, we'll digitize it, second, fifth, sixth. I don't know how many times you have to sign them up and down. At the same time, when I started reading ZUREP on the first five pages, one in three, the fourth paragraph had so tight that it was not to read. A speller, Mr. Secretary, don't you know that in your ministry? It's a speller. Because, you know, this bill, which falls into the National Assembly, shows that we are light years from the spatial order. To leave aside that this is also an insult to the National Assembly, the temple of democracy, as some say. In short, I look forward to the debate. In a relatively short period of time, I pointed out some key dilemmas. If I wanted to dissect both marriages, it would probably take about six hours. We won't argue. We've got a lot of work to do. Great. In fact, the next government, which I hope will be led by the Social Democrats, is facing difficult work when this law enters into force. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u28	Nice greetings for all, the presidents, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, as well as the interested public! In 2017, after almost a decade of coordination with different stakeholders, a comprehensive revision of environmental and construction legislation was adopted by adopting the Construction Law and the Law on the regulation of space. And just four years after the adoption of a completely new Law on the Regulation of Space and Construction Law, which are fully in force for about two years, we now have these two laws back on the table. At first sight, it seems an unusual force. It also seems strange that just two years after the implementation of the legislation that has been adopted and co-ordinated for a decade, we must now, suddenly, when the European billions are coming, adopt new two laws quickly. It also seems strange that the project documentation regime is being changed immediately after the transitional period of implementation of the previous system was completed after two and a half years only in January of this year. And it seems unusual that the current government has managed so quickly to carry out all the procedures according to various coordinations, which previously lasted much longer. It also seems strange that the government did not decide to amend these two laws in those parts where they proved ineffective and instead wrote a total of 500 pages of debt, extremely technical and unacquainted laws. All of this seems strange, or it would seem strange, if not for a year and a half to observe the desant of this government in nature, in place, in working rights, in particular those of foreigners, in public health, in public health, in state property and in everything else, where it can deregulation, liberalise and privatise everything that is deregulation, liberalisation and privatization for the benefit of capital and for the harm of working people. Like, let me remind you, the anti-Korona laws that have adopted in the night some of the subsets who, by stopping and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic, had absolutely no connection, are also hiding here, on 500 pages of extremely technical legislation. We say that it is hidden because it is obviously already from reading the solutions of the law on the regulation of space, where some 80% of the so-called solutions are not really solutions at all, but a summary of the existing arrangements and solutions are presented so that their real consequences are hard to imagine. It is also obvious that when reading solutions from the construction law, where some in the public are not at all the most receptive disputes of the law, for example, the balance sheet between the project management professions, which we have already pointed out in Levica. Although we may not be aware of all the issues covered by these laws at all, what is seen from a distance is enough for these two laws to be rejected in the first reading. In view of the unpleasant and long history of the current Minister with environmental and natural protection organisations – let me remind you of the recent referendum on water – as they have repeatedly managed to prevent and stop controversial projects because they have pointed out their non-compliance with the legislation, it is no wonder that one of them is pointed at them. Non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest shall exclude from participation in the administrative procedure the issue of a building permit, and this is purely explicit. Allow me to quote: “The interested public, who has an interest in environmental decision-making, is not a party to the building permit process.” End of quote. It is also impossible to comment in the process of issuing an integrated building permit. Next. The obligation of the public project competition shall be lifted. This is also related to amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which are currently under way with the adoption of a law on demobilization. The implementation of public project competitions, which to this day has been compulsory for the design of larger public-use facilities, will be followed by a new free decision of individual municipalities. This removes de facto public project competitions, although this includes a civilisation standard and a basic tool to ensure quality solutions, transparency of space management procedures and the rational use of public funds known by all regulated democratic countries. The public competition is the most effective, democratic and economic way of spending public money to choose the optimal, which also means the most functional, best solutions, the most innovative and environmentally friendly. Discontinuation of public competitions in practice means that spatial solutions and architects are not found at an architectural competition based on the choice of the best quality for the best price in confronting and comparing more ideal solutions, but in the procurement process, the collection of offers where the cheapest or even the most informed provider of plans wins. If the public tender is effectively terminated, the only criterion in the execution of public contracts for the design of public-use facilities that will be paid with public money will be the most favourable price and reference of designers. This will exclude smaller architectural bureaus from the possibility of cooperation, especially young architects, who often represent the most original part of the profession and who will not come to the possibility of realizing potentials and society will never come to the most original solutions and transformative development. As has already been said, public competitions are one of the basic democratic weapons of society to obtain the best solutions. The closure of competitions will be decided by those who can do so because they have public money, often under the influence of the ruling policy, and the transactions will be obtained by those who are most connected with them. And these are usually the same ones, according to which this current legal amendment is written, whereby the project manager will no longer have to be of the profession that is dominant on the project, as provided for in the current regulation. Currently, this means that architects run projects for buildings, construction engineers run line infrastructure projects such as roads, viaducts, tunnels and so on, while electrical engineers run electrical infrastructure projects such as power lines. After the new arrangement, any project will be able to be run by anyone. The law introduces a flatilovka, for example, the construction of a kindergarten will be possible led by an electric engineer and the construction of a remote building an architect. This arrangement is introduced under the pretext of equality of professions, if all must be able to lead the project. In fact, it is only here that the directors of some major design companies, well connected with the ruling policy, can write themselves as project managers. The current arrangement for design bureaus run by engineers does not, of course, fit. If the role of project manager for the building is to be assumed by one of the employed architects, the company may lose all references to the design of buildings when the architect goes elsewhere. Therefore, in the business interest of the owner, the undertaking is to register itself on paper as the leader of all projects, although it belongs to only one profession and all projects at the same time either physically or physically unable to lead, but in fact they are actually led by others, its employees. The project will ultimately not be run by engineers or architects, but mainly by directors and owners of design houses. They will be run on paper and will receive references, but in fact they will be guided by their employees or outsourced workers who will never be able to obtain their own references in this way. In short, the minister decided to cut himself into the relationship between the professions, in a way that completely contradicted the construction engineers and architects. If the government manages to keep those groups that should otherwise cooperate, it is, of course, much easier to fish in mud. The controversy in the proposals of these two laws, which somehow does not end and makes them crumbling. The next, which is worth pointing out, is the further simplification of the process of predominance of one public interest in placing it in space above another. Let us recall, the prevailing public benefit of another has now been established by the law in force. This is about taking over other benefits over the benefits of environmental protection, of course. Many controversial projects could not be implemented because the interest in environmental protection was too high. This fuse was already loosened by the 2017 law. It is now even more so, as it will no longer be necessary to carry out all the procedures for coordinating different interests in overcoming one public advantage over another, i.e. the benefits of protecting the environment. The government will simply pass by, because the government is the one who makes this decision on the basis of the opinion of the Commission, which, look at it, calls it itself. The following changes in question concern the process of integrated permits, where it is possible for an investor for an individual facility to obtain a building permit in some spatial and functional connection or subject matter, which would include a decision on the construction of this facility or part of the facility and conclusions on the assessment of environmental impacts as a whole, and later on, the environmental impact assessment will be no longer necessary for further integrated permits. The next change, which will be very obvious in the issuance of building permits, is that the construction permits for investments under the Investment Promotion Act will be distributed by the Ministry and not by the administrative unit. While others will be able to stand in line on administrative units and wait for permits, corporations, for example, will be allowed to build a paint shop on the highest quality agricultural land by the minister himself in his cabinet. Why not if the Ministry first provides them with millions of subsidies? How, then, would the Minister not personally issue a building permit? So much for debarcation. In order to obtain a permit for a one-bedroom house, evidence of reliability will no longer have to be attached, nor will it be necessary for the supervisor and the supervisor to declare that such a building meets the essential requirements. This is a dangerous deregulation that can result in less quality and more dangerous construction of one-bedroom buildings, of course all in terms of the appreciation of construction. But it's the houses where people live. Furthermore, provisions for assessing the conformity of proposed constructions with spatial acts are being broken. The administrative authorities will no longer assess this because it is the responsibility of the Ministry and the municipalities to issue their opinions, as well as of the project documentation manufacturer for the acquisition of the building permit. The problem is that these are just opinions and not more consensus than they were before this current construction law was put into effect. This Act has abolished and instead introduces opinions which are generally the basis for the issue of a building permit for the competent administrative authority, with the possibility for the competent administrative authority of construction matters to reconcile opinions without legal basis, uncoordinated opinions or conflicting opinions with each other and, in extreme cases, to overlook their content. As proposed now, however, it leaves all too many doors open for a variety of machinations, which will result in reckless spatial development. The next issue is to delete the obligation that operators, notaries, authorised engineers in the field of geodesy and others in the various actions relating to real estate, and in particular in the case of traffic with them, check whether a facility is a black building or not. Transport with real estate, connection to municipal infrastructure, house numbering and so on are not allowed in the current law, but will be allowed in the new law, unless an inspection measure has already been made for an object and a register in the land book will be entered on this subject. Let me warn you, this is going to have a lot of negative consequences. Black constructions will become even stronger anchored in our space and their removal will be even more difficult once these buildings have house numbers when they are connected to public infrastructure and so on. In addition, this will greatly reduce the security of those who will buy such properties, since such ignorant ones will be able to sell black constructions that will have to be destroyed by those who will barely collect for a real estate and will be in debt for the rest of their lives. For the sake of the safety of real estate buyers, these persons who are now subject to law should check whether or not this is a black construction. This should stay in the law. And if they don't have access to the records, it can be made possible. An obligation may also be established on the part of the property owners to provide evidence as to whether the property has all the necessary permits or not. Instead, notaries, officials, and so on, are burdened with all responsibilities. Let's be objective. It is true, however, that some positive changes to the proposed amendment of the Construction Law and the Law on the Regulation of Space. The first to be highlighted is the change that relates to the weighing between the demolition of an object and the right to respect at home. Sadly, in the past it was the destruction of illegally built buildings, even though it was the only home for the family. Regrettably, class distinctions came to light here, too, when less wealthy homes were demolished because they could not afford them otherwise, and, on the other hand, the rich and influential demolitions of their beach cottages were delayed in court proceedings for so long that they could even legalize them. This is a change that we welcome, but it would be very easy to add to the existing law. And there are some such changes, such as the introduction of a construction plot. Nevertheless, these few positive changes do not outweigh the negative effects on our space and environment and the consequences that would probably not have occurred in the decade after they were adopted and if these two laws were adopted. For all these reasons, we will vote against the adoption of the building law and the law on the regulation of the premises in the Group of the Left, although the only one, in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of construction of buildings is governed by the Construction Law, which began to apply in 2018. The law is inseparably linked to space legislation and therefore the shortcomings of spatial legislation are necessarily reflected in the area of construction. Shortly after the adoption of the Construction Law, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the two articles of the previous Construction Act were unconstitutional and ordered that the National Assembly should abolish the constitutionality found. Construction law which entered into force 1. 6. 2018, unfortunately, this unconstitutionality has not been eliminated, so we now have a law on the table that solves this problem. The Constitutional Court has found that the provisions of Articles 152 and 156 of the Law on the Construction of Objects with a Constitution are inconsistent with the right to respect at home, as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 36 of the Constitution. Thus, one of the main solutions to the proposal for a new construction law is that before the removal of an illegal facility that represents a home to an individual, the competent court will decide on the proportionality of interference with the right to respect at home. Only if the court finds that this is not a home will the competent inspector be able to carry out the execution is the removal of an illegal facility. Otherwise, the inspector will have to postpone the removal measure for five years, following a decision of the Constitutional Court. In October 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Space on the implementation of the new spatial and building legislation carried out a survey to the professional and general public. The profession and many stakeholders in the regulation of the premises have highlighted certain shortcomings in the Construction Law, which are being corrected by the new proposal for a law. Thus, the law introduces the concept of a smaller reconstruction that will shift the gap between maintenance parts and reconstruction and in which work can only be carried out on the basis of the application of the start of construction. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the expansion of temporary facilities to facilities in the event of emergencies and storage facilities to complement existing activities within industrial and transport areas. In the event of a natural disaster, for example in the event of a fire, it is sufficient only to report the start of construction for works necessary to reduce or remedy the consequences of natural and other accidents. In order to shorten licensing procedures, it is important that the law should provide for the possibility of an administrative authority to decide on its own in the event of a lack of consistency and ambiguity in its opinion. In the new context, the administrative authorities will have to take more account of the opinions of the competent authorities and organisations in the procedures for issuing the building permit, as they are professionally and legally qualified to determine the conformity of the proposed construction with the regulations in their work area. This will be the case for established compatibility of construction with spatial acts where the opinionary is a municipality. The procedure for issuing a building permit for infrastructure facilities will be reopened even if the application is not accompanied by evidence of the right to build. However, since proof of the right to build a condition for the issue of a building permit, evidence will have to be submitted before the issue of a building permit. In any case, this change is also going to the investor to obtain a building permit as soon as possible. This is particularly important for those projects co-financed by European funds. The payment of the municipal contribution will no longer be conditional on the issue of the building permit. This obligation shall be fulfilled prior to the application of the start of the construction and at the time of the start of the construction, the investor shall attach proof that the obligations relating to the payment of the municipal contribution have been settled. Only in the case of a change of destination, where no declaration of commencement is made, shall the proof be provided in the procedure for obtaining the licence of use. Of course, this will only apply once the complete eBuilding system is in place. The advantage of this change is that it will be possible for the investor to obtain loans for the purpose of paying the municipal contribution on the basis of the building permit obtained. It is true, however, that the municipalities will receive the municipal contribution later than before. However, at the expected shorter procedure for obtaining a building permit, such a delay should be minimal. As a novelty, the bill offers the possibility of using materials and products already in use under certain conditions, following the principles of a sustainable and circular economy. For buildings that were built before 1998 with a building permit but without a valid permit, it will be possible to obtain only a usable permit, and for one-bedroom houses, it will be much easier and cheaper to obtain a usable permit than for multi-housing or other more demanding facilities. However, since the construction law goes hand in hand with the law on the regulation of space, we accept this matter in the package. In particular, the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises builds on the existing principles of space regulation, as already laid down in the existing law. According to the proposal for a law, the state rules on the regulation of premises shall be laid down in two places: the basic rules shall be included in this proposal for a law and the other rules shall be adopted by government regulations. As a guiding rule, cooperation and coordination of interests between the State, its space regulators and the municipalities have been established. In any event, the draft law maintains the rule of impact of a single spatial decision on the economy, society and the environment. Among the rules, the law also provides for the rational use of space, the specificity of spatial planning for certain restricted areas and the direction of the development of settlements. As a rule, resettlement is planned in the regulatory areas of urban settlements; within this area, resettlement has priority over the expansion of the regulatory area. The proposal clearly states that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment should always be carried out for strategic spatial acts. The proposal for a law substantially builds up the State Spatial Planning System by allowing for a flexible procedure that ends either with the adoption of a State Spatial Plan Regulation or between the integrated planning and authorisation process and the simultaneous adoption of a State Spatial, Regulatory Plan Regulation. The complete authorisation shall, however, constitute a building permit and environmental consent. The municipal spatial plan as such remains. It still sets out the area of settlements, the regulatory area of settlements and areas for long-term settlement expansion. However, its preparation process is slightly changing, emphasis being placed on the analysis of the state of space, the analysis of initiatives and the development of solutions in cooperation with the public in the preparation of the draft municipal spatial plan. The new arrangement of the building plot, however, aims to ensure that the planned building can function normally throughout the period of existence and future use, so that the building plot of the planned building can only form the land on which such rights are guaranteed by each owner of the building, which allows it to use the land permanently and unobstructedly for the purposes of the regular use of the building. In New Slovenia, however, it is particularly important that the proposal for a law provides for the establishment of a spatial information system as a public web portal through which certain activities will be carried out in the preparation of spatial acts, in particular public publication and the application of building permits. Last but not least, there is a growing set of competences of the municipal inspectorate, which will oversee not only the construction of simple facilities but also the compatibility of non-construction interventions with directly applicable basic rules on the regulation of premises. We certainly have on the table today a package of two large-scale laws that bring the necessary upgrading of existing legislation in this area to a sensitive area of space regulation and building construction and shortening of procedures for building permits. In these days, meetings of the Ministry of Environment and Space with NGOs are also taking place, on the basis of which an amendment to the Construction Law is expected to be prepared with regard to the status of a foreign participant of NGOs in the process of issuing a building permit. However, the Chamber of Architecture addressed to us Members a letter expressing disagreement with such a proposal for a construction law. The fact is that, unlike the existing Construction Law, the new proposal establishes the equality of all engineering professions involved in the production of project documentation, which means that the project manager should be designated by the taker of the business under the conditions set by the investor. In Novi Slovenija, it seems only logical that both authorized architects and engineers perform as project managers, since similar practices are also abroad. We believe that, when an authorised engineer is in charge of the project, an authorised architect must also be involved in the design of the project documentation, as he is the only one responsible for the design of the architecture plan. And in the reverse case, when the project manager is an authorized architect, the construction engineer will be the one who will take care of the relevant construction structure at the stage of issuing the building permit. That is exactly what this proposal for a construction law follows. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will thus give both legal green light for further consideration, where there will be sufficient opportunities to include good proposals by the professional public, NGOs and all stakeholders in the regulation of material as important as the regulation of space and the construction of buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Matey Udovč. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u32	Your Honor! Today, we are deciding on a proposal to amend and supplement the Construction Law and on a law to regulate the premises that systematically regulate and command or determine how to place objects in our premises. Because of the content of the matter, it is important that the amendments to both laws be considered together. The main amendment of the Construction Law stems from the weighing between the public interest which dictates the removal of an illegally built building and the right to respect at home. We are aware of the necessity of amendments to the legislation following the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. In its explanation, the Constitutional Court stressed that illegally constructed buildings should not be removed if there are clear circumstances which would render the interference with the right to respect at home disproportionate to the individual. If the Court finds disproportionate interference with the right to respect at home, the enforcement of the measure will be postponed. It also regulates the competences of certain institutions. Thus, according to the new law on the regulation of the premises and not more in the construction law, the person who will establish the competent institution to assess the appropriateness of the planned accommodation of the facility in the premises will be the one who will determine the appropriateness of the intended accommodation. This is the municipality in which the construction is located. The municipality will therefore continue to assess whether the facility complies with the spatial implementing acts and other rules applicable in its territory. The proposed amendments to the law also make some changes aimed at simplifying the procedures for obtaining a building permit. These changes will make it easier to obtain a certain full application, will regulate the process of handling and integration of party participants into the procedures. The possibility of construction following a completed construction permit will also be re-organized. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are working to simplify and accelerate the bureaucratic procedures introduced by the novels of the Construction Law and the Law on the regulation of space through administrative burdens. We are confident that the procedure for obtaining a building permit will be much more effective once the changes are in place. In the past, some solutions have proved to be unnecessary or unduly restrictive in practice. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are constantly working to ensure that legislation is tailor-made to the measure of people and the economy. In all of this, it seems important that we maintain high standards of environmental protection, because we cannot afford new compensation at the expense of nature. In our view, these changes in marriage do not affect this relationship. On the basis of the above facts, we will unanimously support the new two laws in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u34	In modern times, settlements are designed and redesigned mainly technologically, construction technologies are advancing, transport infrastructure is slowly developing and legislative innovations are key to making life and security easier. Emphasis on environmental protection and natural energy sources is increasingly visible in construction, a specific sector of the Slovenian economy. Modern ways of building and regulating the space aim to minimise the burden of our environment, while rapid and mass building has become a top priority. Just too extensive and delayed procedures are the reason for the renewal of the two laws governing the premises, namely the Construction Law and the Law on Spatial Planning. On 24 June, the Government submitted a new text of the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises and on 18 June a building law, which differs considerably from the proposal in the public hearing last summer and the interdepartmental treatment of December last year. As they say, the current system will not change, but will be upgraded, so that the procedures for building facilities and placing them into space will be simpler and faster. The concept of the law which entered into force in mid-2018 will be preserved. The proposal highlights red tape, simplification and acceleration of placement procedures in the premises and construction of buildings. The practice has shown that procedures are excessive and time-consuming in the implementation of the rules. Despite the improvements made, however, construction and space legislation has nevertheless encountered mixed responses. I'd like to point out some. Under non-problem conditions, a building permit may be obtained within 30 days of instruction in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. The procedure may thus be initiated without the shown ownership shown before the issue of the building permit. It will be possible to issue a building permit within a short period of time as the competent authority would no longer assess the compatibility of the proposed construction with spatial acts. This would be the responsibility of the congregation or ministry to issue opinions. The local communities point to a short 15-day deadline for delivering opinions on compliance with the provisions of spatial acts. They caution that consistency must also be technically and legally justified and explained. However, there is a risk that some procedural steps will have to be repeated. The acquisition of an usable permit for one-house houses will be simplified. This building or facade will thus not be a condition, but the investor will have to complete the facade within three years. In modern times, it is crucial that we do not make it more difficult for society to live with unnecessary conditions. According to the new, the investor may, on his own responsibility, start building after the completion of the building permit when he does not need an environmental assessment. The acquisition of a legal authorisation has suspended the procedures for at least two years. The Administrative Court considers that this is not a legal burden but rather a transfer of burdens from administrative proceedings to judicial proceedings. However, a strong response by local communities is at the expense of the payment of the municipal contribution. The dose of the municipal contribution would have been made following the acquisition of the building permit, i.e. before the construction began. Both the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and certain municipalities oppose the system of doses of municipal contribution and, as the only option, assess the maintenance of the existing system. A set of temporary facilities would extend to facilities, which means that entrepreneurs will be able to place warehouses for up to three years in addition to existing facilities and subsequently obtain a permanent building permit where necessary. According to the proposal, supervision of the construction of non-requisition facilities would also be carried out by municipal inspections. The award of new powers to municipal inspectors is opposed by the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, since this means additional employment and specialisation of municipal inspection services, which would add to the burden of municipal budgets. I would point out the complementary provisions relating to legalisation. The new legalisation would also be possible for a part of the facility and the illegal object must be completed in order to be able to issue a legalisation provision deemed to be a usable permit. As with the construction law, there is also a law on the regulation of the room to supplement the current situation. The time for the preparation of municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans would be halved, according to the Minister, by a new law. For national and municipal spatial acts, the environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for the preparation of spatial implementing acts will be integrated. A project group will also be set up for time optimisation so that the procedures for planning interventions into the premises and procedures for obtaining a building permit for the purpose of informal harmonisation will be carried out in a synchronous manner among all experts. In the SAB Group, we believe that there is room in the bill for some improvements, and we therefore consider that the proposal is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic has the following word. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We live in a society that is becoming more and more technologically advanced, in a society where, due to an increasingly rapid way of life, long workers and also to the expectations of the environment of simplifying procedures and more transparent access to information, we are relieved of a number of time constraints. If we sometimes have concerns about the speed of development, useful legislative proposals and changes through digitisation will enable us to make certain bureaucratic burdens, which, as a result, also entail lower costs, which lastly keep our nerves at an appropriate low level. The proposal to revise the construction and space legislation that we are considering in the first reading today includes the construction law and the law on the regulation of space. This is a step in the direction of upgrading the procedures needed to build the buildings and place the latter in space. The changes envisaged are indeed considerable, from the establishment of an electronic operation to the simplification of the acquisition of a usable building permit for simple houses, the extension of a set of temporary facilities in the event of emergencies, the introduction of a concept of minor reconstruction, the possibility of legalising the works of the facility, the introduction of project management of the production of spatial acts, which will reduce the time of preparation of municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans, the establishment of a project group for State spatial plans, the establishment of a series of spatial acts for which a comprehensive environmental impact assessment will be required, and the expansion of the selection of the presence of control of public inspection. However, most attention has certainly been given to the change in the payment of the municipal contribution, since the payment of the latter after the establishment of electronic commerce will no longer be conditional on the acquisition of the building permit but will be measured before the start of the construction, and to the arrangements for the role of engineers, architecture and construction in the management of projects, to which we have also dedicated a long discussion at the joint meeting of the competent committees of the National Assembly. Today is the first time we are looking at both proposals for laws. In the Desus Group, we are aware that construction and spatial legislation is of paramount importance for both individuals, families, congregations and the country. The first step towards simplifying and shortening procedures and at the same time ensuring the safety and cooperation of the various stakeholders is taken. The next legislative process will provide an opportunity for dialogue and the expertise of a solution to be further complemented or crystallised. The Desus Group will support the draft laws at first reading. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! Respected, the legal area of space regulation and construction is one of the fundamental development areas that strongly define social development through settlement regulation and economic development by regulating the construction of economic facilities and infrastructure. Construction legislation is inseparably linked to spatial legislation because the shortcomings of the first legislation are necessarily reflected in the second and vice versa. The legislation on building and regulating the premises was last updated in the previous mandate in 2017. The last legislation began to apply in the middle of 2018, a package of new construction and spatial legislation is expected to bring, inter alia, more rational and shorter procedures, easier coordination of different interests, greater legal certainty for investors and more effective supervision. The aim of the revision of legislation was to protect public interest in the construction of buildings, in the first place the safety of facilities to protect the health and life of people, as well as the protection of the environment, nature, cultural heritage, the appearance of settlements and landscapes and other protective values in space. This purpose has been achieved in the law through the rights and obligations of participants in the construction of buildings, taking into account the guidance to prescribe such minimum administrative requirements as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law. Both marriages will only be replaced by four and three years old system laws. We note that these are corrections and improvements that have proved necessary following the implementation of both laws. The former Minister of Environment and Space has commissioned evaluation, and a survey has also been carried out between the professional public, which shows that most of the innovations in construction and spatial legislation have been positive and some shortcomings have also been alerted, particularly in the Construction Law. In addition, soon after the adoption of 2017, the Constitutional Court decided that paragraphs 152 and 156a of the previous Law on the Construction of Buildings are inconsistent with the Constitution when it comes to the right to respect at home. As legislator, we will have to weigh between the public interest that dictates the removal of an illegally built facility and the right to respect at home. The right to respect at home ensures that an object in which it resides will not be removed if there are circumstances that would result in an infringement of the right to respect at home disproportionate. Following the proposed solution, the court will be able to determine the proportionality of interference with the right to respect at home before the removal of an illegal facility that represents a home to an individual. If the court finds that this is not a home, the inspector will be able to execute, i.e. remove the illegal facility, otherwise the removal will be delayed for five years. As key objectives of the new law, the government mentions the de-de-barcation of procedures and the digitisation of data and processes. However, the aim of the amendments is to better manage the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts at national and local level and to better manage land policy as key elements for achieving sustainable spatial development. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we do not oppose the development of faster, more transparent and simpler procedures for the construction of buildings and greater efficiency in the adoption of spatial plans at the municipal and state level. Legislation must be more friendly and predictable to investors and designers. On the other hand, we point out that, due to our long-term effects, the construction of buildings must be managed in a sustainable manner and protected by public interest, from the strategic level of space regulation and planning at the beginning to the issuance of the building and usable permit at the end. Therefore, the promised legalizations can be a time bomb and a potential incentive for black builders. Anyone who remembers building what suits him can't get a green light for his work. Both draft laws have been the subject of a long-standing public debate and have received a strong response from the professional public. However, from the materials submitted to the legislative process, it is possible to understand that the Ministry has responded to most of them and has prepared corrections or additions. We must note that some important changes are prepared after a public debate, in the pre-review phase in the Government – we have experienced this many times and this practice has proved very poor – not only are some of these changes controversial, but we are also asked whether they will have no detrimental consequences for the quality of the built environment. One of these is the abolition of the required expertise for project manager. The draft law, which was under public scrutiny, required that the project manager for the buildings be normally an authorized architect and that for the construction of engineering facilities an authorised engineer of the relevant profession. The bill, however, represents a strong shift in the direction of the Minister's convergence with some large projective companies who want to push the architects and designers of independent entrepreneurs out of the business. The professions that are key to environmental work are architecture and landscape architecture. Since the construction of the buildings affects the environment, it must therefore have a leading influence on the design of the sector involved in the design of the space. Designing buildings should normally be managed by architects, since it is a matter of regulating space, architecture as a cultural expression and preserving cultural heritage rather than a cultural expression, which is undoubtedly in the public interest. The proposal for a novel would thus allow project management for construction, machinery, electrical engineers, geodets, fire safety engineers and others regardless of the type of intervention in the space. This is not only a systematic denial of the complex knowledge of architects, but a departure from the quality future of construction practice in Slovenia. The bill thus prevents the professional management of urban and architectural projects, which is contrary to centuries of practice and modern trends, which in countries where environment and space ministers are taught, honest and occupied people recognize the values of quality architecture and spatial design. This rudely ignorant and clientistic proposal completely despises the European Commission's initiative of a new European Bauhaus, which advocates sustainable, inclusive and aesthetic spatial solutions. Which profession is the only one trained for integration and aesthetic design solutions? These are architects, so don't rule them out. The disputed solutions would also mention the expulsion of NGOs with the status of action in the public interest in the field of environmental protection and preservation of the nature of the procedures. They can no longer be parties to the proceedings, they can only participate in the public debate and finally they can only start an administrative dispute. However, the status of the party is still maintained by the owners or other owners of the property located in the affected area if they prove that the intended facility will affect their legal benefits. It is therefore an unequal protection of the rights of affected individuals and NGOs, which is contrary to the Aarhus Convention. Slovenia has ratified the Aarhus Convention and is committed to a number of European directives which stipulate that interested public and non-governmental organisations have the right to participate in these procedures and have legal protection, which means that they can complain. Otherwise, by reducing rights for the public and non-governmental organisations, we can expect that the application of these provisions of the law will cause more and no less legal disputes. In particular, the proposer promises red tape and faster acquisition of building permits within 30 days if the investor has all the necessary documentation and evidence of the right to build and none of the party involved in the construction object. Authorisations will be available via the eSpace and eBuilding State Cloud, but it is not entirely clear how the issuance of a building permit will be possible within a shorter period, as administrative units will no longer verify compliance with the spatial act. This coherence, however, is a key guarantee of the permissibility and appropriateness of an individual intervention into space. When the competent ministry does not pay attention to this, it becomes clear to them how much they care about the sustainable quality of the Slovenian construction area and that some other values and interests are becoming the priority of the current authority. The law is intended to lay the groundwork for electronic business and will simplify the acquisition of a usable permit for one-house houses. This will require, as has been the case with the construction supervisor, that this was in line with the project documentation and that it complies with the essential requirements, except that there will be no longer conditions for the completed facade of the building. This is what an investor will be obliged to do in three years. In cases where, due to a natural and other accident, the damaged facility needs to be repaired as soon as possible, the possibility of setting up the original condition will be introduced only on the basis of the application of the start of the construction. The proposaler in the Space Regulation Act promises improvements in spatial planning, land policy measures and the provision of financial resources to better manage the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts at national and local level. The news is a project approach in the adoption of State spatial plans, so that a project group will be set up and work will be carried out simultaneously between all professions. The forecast that construction planning procedures and building permit procedures will run parallel seems to be inconceivable and difficult to implement. The question arises how the administrative authority will issue a building permit while the designer is still drawing plans. The idea of integrating a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and preparing spatial implementation acts is also vague, unless everything is orchestrated by the current Minister for Environment and Space, as he likes, without architects, anyway. Only time will tell whether this will facilitate and speed up the adoption of spatial acts. In his presentation of the new spatial and building legislation, the Minister argued that it did not undermine the current concept. This is only partly true for regulating the space. It would not be wise to invent a new planning system, as only improvements are needed. As far as the construction law is concerned, we believe that some of the amendments introduced by the law which entered into force in mid-2018 are not merely about improving or removing bureaucratic barriers. It is therefore also understandable that the parliamentary groups receive a number of comments at this stage when we are already considering the law in the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Minister, we call on him to consider further legislative procedures or the second reading on which he will persist and whether he will be willing to listen to some comments and, on this basis, to prepare appropriate amendments in the form of a supplement to the proposed article. The Minister is reminded that his key task is to balance environmental protection and to regulate space with development. The protection of the environment and the encouragement of the economy are not excluded from our assessment, but the country is obliged to provide both social well-being and an environment of integrity. If he wants to provide support for proposed legal solutions, Minister Vizjak will have to show more obedience to the remarks of the profession and change the current discourse of ignoring the practice of architectural competitions, which will destroy the reputation of quality that Slovenian architecture has built from World War II to his ministry. Our continued support will also depend on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SNS Group, Mr Dušan Šiško will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. In the past, we have easily built houses, weekends with the help of various masters, neighbors, relatives, because there was no such bureaucracy and many procedures as we have now. Today, there are other times, since young people are in school, living with their parents until the age of 30, because they find it more difficult to get jobs, and they are unable to afford apartments or adequate solutions to their housing problems. On the other hand, those good ones who still manage to find a well - paying job face the problem of housing shortages. Not much has been done in the last 15 years to regulate this situation. In Slovenia there are very many illegal and incompatible constructions. It used to be built on every land, if only you had it, because from then on small weekends houses and villas grew. A number of cases are when youths bought a house, but later they were amazed to find that, say, only one third is legal, and the rest is not. The new construction law thus brings positive solutions, as legalisation will also be possible for parts of the building, where there is a great contribution. We welcome the fact that the payment of a municipal contribution is not a condition for the issue of a building permit, and in the law we are disturbed by the article on judicial protection, which opens the door wide to NGOs as it gives them the opportunity to file an action in an administrative dispute. Given that some NGOs have already been involved in all kinds of projects, we are concerned that the proposed regulation will cause more problems, particularly to the detriment of the economy, and consequently to the detriment of citizens. We have already drawn attention to this issue for the entire mandate. If we simply ask ourselves why King Matjaž planted the first shovel recently and why we had a summer affair with waste mud, the picture is very clear. Some NGOs, I am not referring to firefighters, the Red Cross, sports societies and similar organisations, but especially those who operate in the field of environmental matters and work to the detriment of the economy. A lot of them stand, there are no executions in certain cases. This list of projects is very long. Smaller non-profit projects are active in projects where large investments are concerned, and therefore they are not advertised there. Today, however, the law of retirement gives them even greater authority to do so. In many cases, under the cover of a non-governmental organisation, a judicial route is being misused to delay the implementation of the investment itself. Later, they reach a settlement with the investor, which is never presented in public. This fight is not only for the environment and economic development but only for its own interests, and these are mostly financial in nature. Given that the law is currently in the general debate, we will certainly have much more to talk about the law, including what amendments we will write.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. First of all, he wanted to say the word, Mr. Minister. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your views, for your thanks, and also for some comments or some specific proposals. Allow me to make a statement or to make a statement to some extent because these findings do not actually have a basis in specific articles or in facts. It was first stated by the LMŠ that a lower standard prevails over other public benefits over the public benefit of nature conservation. I believe that some may have been disturbed by the provision in the ZUREP concerning the resolution of conflicts of interest, which some also call public benefit, which is not the same. The public advantage prevails in the construction law, as defined in Article 66. The public benefits of some construction, such as renewable resources above nature or anything else, prevail through the established procedures defined in the Nature Conservation Act. This is said to be the place where nothing changes, and I do not know where anyone can conclude, as Mr Paulič of LMŠ initially said, that there is a lower standard in this predominance. No, there's no lower standard. Procedures shall be carried out in accordance with Article 66 of the Construction Law in accordance with the rules governing conservation of nature. That's what it says, this law only goes to the Nature Conservation Act. Indeed, this can be linked to the ZUREP, where we are talking about the so-called settlement of conflicts of interest. This means that when different views on a spatial act are expressed both by the Water Directorate and by the nature conservation agency, it is right for the State to resolve the conflicts of these interests and to take a decision. For if it is one and the other areas of jurisdiction of the State, it is only right that the State or Government then decides in favour of one or the other to move from the dead point of acceptance of a spatial act. Secondly, we are talking about the obligations of project competitions. I'm answering the prints from the left. Projects and competitions remain, respected. Projects and competitions remain and are also dealt with in this law when an investor, a local community or anyone decides to do so. However, we are abolishing the obligation of public competitions for projects above a certain value, because I think this is unnecessary. However, it is appropriate to conduct public competitions where the local community or investor or, last but not least, the State decides to do so. This is said to be public competitions, I believe they are very useful, they remain, but they are no longer mandatory. Mr Trček further asked by the SD about the strategy. Article 73 of the ZUREP makes it very clear that the fourth paragraph is that, on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly adopts a strategy. It is clear and clear that similar strategies are adopted on a proposal from the Government of the National Assembly. So I don't understand the obvious. As far as the regional spatial plan is concerned. This has, in fact, been in the ZUREP so far, in this change, we are building this up more in terms of ambition to call only this regional level of spatial plan to work. We hear many times that the country imposes on local and regional institutions some of its solutions. I believe, not least as former mayor, that I was a mayor, but that I did not say how many times a municipal councillor - that the state imposes regional spatial planning from above. It is also right that the local communities, through regional development agencies or regional institutes established, address those common regional areas, because we do not have a regional division, in the context of the 12 statistical regions. I think this is an important step forward. Maybe he's not optimal, he'd be optimal if we had a provincial level, but unfortunately we don't have one. That is why I believe that in certain cases this is a good option, especially where we are dealing with a number of small congregations that are not capable of any broader spatial planning and are confined to just a small area somewhere. For example, I think the Regional Spatial Plan for Prekmurje is more than necessary, and for such rounded wholes also, where there are a number of municipalities. I also believe that by encouraging us from a national level, we will come up with these regional spatial plans. As far as the world is concerned. The spatial world has an ambition to coordinate the state's view on something. Especially where the country looks at the same thing differently. In fact, the Department of Nature Protection has a different view of something like the Water Directorate, as well as the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Not to mention the infrastructure ministry, which sometimes wants a lot of things. It is right that when a municipality comes forward with one such proposal, within the framework of the so-called spatial council, the country should resolve these different views because it is acting unilaterally on the part of the State. And now imagine that there are representatives of the local community in this spatial world and that this coordination is taking place on this stage. That is why this spatial world is designed to do so, and this is also clearly stated in the law. I'm sorry if you found any vocabulary error. This text has been lectured twice, and I allow it to be inside. It's a non-façade license. Yes, you are partly right, but in part also those who say that when the building is finished and does not yet have the shell of the building and needs to acquire it in a relatively short time, let us allow accommodation. Why is it possible to move in, or why is this important? So that an object like this can get a home number by permission. As a result, a young family or those who want to stay there can have a permanent residence in this facility. As a result, children can take to kindergarten, school, and so on. Otherwise, we wouldn't have it if we didn't have a usable permit. However, they are stimulated by not least everything else to upgrade the facade as soon as possible. We've been here for three years. As far as the answers to the Left are concerned. It just doesn't hold, and it's verifiable that the law, I don't know, has been in force for two years. The existing law is in force for three years plus, since it entered into force in the middle of 2018, we are now in the autumn of 2021 and this is certainly more than three years and not two years. That's one thing. Why change? Even when we arrived, in the government where Levica was involved, a novelty of the law was prepared because it had already proved, after a year and a half, that some solutions were unthinkable, some solutions were bad and needed to be rectified. One such is that the application for an integrated building permit has not at all been put into consideration if it was not an investor at the same time, that is to say, an investor, the owner of all the land on which the construction is carried out. Now you can imagine that before an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus has been made, the owner of the land must be possible for a project that will not be carried out because of a negative assessment. It's simply lifeless. So you imagined that when you were building a hydroelectric power plant or a highway or anything before buying land, that the role was perfect at all, that you could play a role in the treatment, that you could also decide at the end of the day that construction was not even going to fall, and then you had thousands and thousands of plots. Not to mention how many millions of tax dollars have been spent to buy land that can't be built on. This is, for example, one of the nonlifelike ones that the previous law contained and were ready when we arrived. That is why we did not last resort to these dictions. It was also heard by Mr Rajić from the unrelated Members and the Lady from the representatives of the Left, Mrs Violete Tomić: an unbalanced approach between the professions. We have eliminated the discrimination of one profession over another because it is not justified. Mr Rajić as an architect, of course, protects his profession, but let him not do so in a way that puts this profession in a superior position at the expense of other professions. I didn't hear one reason why we should be the only architects in the design of buildings, where more professions are involved. Last but not least, we are going with environmental legislation to the growing importance of the use of renewable resources and the efficient use of energy in buildings. Engineers in this area are as important in designing buildings as building engineers, as they are in static statics, as electrical engineers, as mechanical engineers, as landscape architects, as architects. Everyone, all the professions are important in the design and design of buildings. I don't think it's superior. As an architect, however, Mr Rajić advocates that architecture is the most important profession in buildings. I don't think that's true, and you'll find it very difficult to convince me that this is true. All the professions are important, including architecture, and also architectural project is important in the design of all buildings, including engineering and buildings. I am sorry that in 2018 architecture, because it was the secretary of state – also today, by the way, Mr. Rožac is also an architect – has somehow chosen this privilege so that he can be the project manager, that is, the coordinator among all the designers for the buildings, only the architect. The coordinator among project designers is the one who is most able to coordinate work between different professions, who is also able to coordinate this with the investor and who also has these skills, the skills of coordinating the project. Of course, an expert must also be authorised. Therefore, the law introduces the thesis that the design manager may be an authorized expert of any profession. Mrs Tomić of the Left spoke as if we were now introducing an integral building permit. The integrated building permit is known by existing legislation. It's nothing new. By the way, an integrated building permit is a good result of the renovation or new construction legislation of 2018, which introduced an integrated construction permit. An integrated building permit has already been issued by the ILO. It has been said here that so far it has been issued by administrative units, and now this is what the ILO wants to get. Integrated building permit already under the applicable ILO law. We also have opinions in our work today, no more consensus. Opinions are already today. And I don't know where Mrs Tomic is from, that we now have an opinion instead of a consensus. We're not changing anything here. So sometimes indeed and even this, by the Left came the obvious to exclude NGOs and civil initiatives, was more about NGOs, from environmental procedures. [[…]] That's totally not true. If you look at and read the building law, as it is written, you will see that both Civil Initiatives and NGOs can cooperate with comments, opinions and proposals in public hearings or in public disclosures, that they are also entitled to answers to their questions, and that if they are not heard, they also have legal protection, they can complain. They may initiate a complaint, they may bring an action, whether they have a status as a party or not. This is also controversial for the National Party, but we have the Aarhus Convention, we have directives, and this is actually a European standard. I think it's right that we just nurture it and maintain it with this law. In the introduction, I have already mentioned and once again I underline for all of you who have highlighted this – we will also support side participation with the amendments and will have the status of foreign participation by NGOs. That's what we agreed with them. This is not yet in this law, but the amendment will be introduced. We will also delete that quote from the Left; it is actually an intervention in one sentence of the law and it is no bigger problem. I sat down yesterday with the work of NGOs, which is what they expected of us, and I gave them a positive signal. Once again, the Government will support the amendment in order to recognise the status of a party in the process of construction to NGOs. I think that we can be united here, and I think that this is also important in the light of public participation in these proceedings. I hope I have responded to most of the comments. If not, we'll explain further. However, I am pleased that you are obviously following the views expressed by the parliamentary groups on the proposal of both laws for a second reading. We still have time to bring all possible amendments into line with this topic. Perhaps only this, the municipal contribution and supervision of the implementation of the law by the municipal editors were also exposed. The matter is not black and white, even as far as the municipalities are concerned. This is supported by the city’s congregations, and some associations of congregations support it, but some do not. They probably write to you mostly those who don't support it. And the others are backing us up. In fact, we would like to present the whole situation to you, so that those who support you will also write to you, and then you will be able to evaluate on the basis of the arguments of these congregations. And perhaps why does it seem fair to me that a municipal contribution is paid before the construction is started and not before the building permit is obtained? For the first time, because some projects that obtain a building permit never come to life in reality, construction does not begin at all. It happens, I don't know, the investor changes his mind, the investor dies, but some circumstances change before construction. In such a case, the municipality must pay back the municipal contribution. Secondly, a number of young people who decide to build a house are tied to obtaining a loan — no one today has the money to finance the house — and the bank does not give him credit until it comes with a credible charter to actually build it. And it's a building permit. When he's got a building permit, he gets a loan, and he can also pay a municipal contribution with that loan. It is also fair and fair that the municipal contribution is paid when the municipal infrastructure begins to be used, not a year earlier. Because it can happen, especially now that the documentation of the PZI or the project for implementation, which is a relatively complex project, has to be submitted at the time of the construction application, from the building permit to the documentation of the PZI. The documentation of the PZI is difficult documentation and it can take a year, two years, the validity of the building permit is five years and may last. At that time, an individual credits the congregation. I believe that the payment of the municipal contribution before the building permit is attractive to the municipalities, because someone else takes care of it, the administrative unit does not let it through if there is no payment, and it is a coma, and on the other hand it is bad for an investor or a citizen who wants to build. So we both have to weigh when we talk about what is better in the given situation. As far as surveillance is concerned. The city’s municipalities support oversight. Last but not least, we already have a case where municipal officials control some of the regulations at the state level, for example, you know that civil servants in Ljubljana control a lot of things, including speeding, parking and so on. For less difficult things, I think it is right that we will not ultimately give the municipalities more powers, but at the same time we will also relieve the inspection services at the national level, so that part of the competence, in particular for non-requisitional facilities, also goes to the level of the editors. By the way, some municipalities support this, but some do not, more or less it depends on the individual mayor, not that it is not that I do not know how to say it. [[…]] The word “may” is in this sentence. They can do it, not that they have to do it alone and that the inspection doesn't do it anymore. That's the jurisdiction of both of us. One more time, like parking in the cities. When parking in the city, the city's municipal supervisors also regulate it. Both of them can control it, and that's the way it's supposed to be. I hope I've captured the main dilemmas. I promise you to cooperate properly in the preparation and treatment of these amendments in another reading. I believe we'll finally get a text that we'll all support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Followed by the next debater, Dr. Mr. Željko Ciegler is prepared for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. In many matters, I agree with you, Minister. In the preparation of the previous legislation, however, we were very well involved in the content of the SDS in the committee. So good that sometimes Janša even sent Breznik to have a little fun, according to his own words. At that time, especially your group leader, Ljubo, you were, and I was on my mother's working body. A whole series of things. At RPN. Of course, absolutely, yes, it's necessary. But my thinking has gone in the direction that I personally believe that this is so necessary and important that it is necessary to team some teams that do not need to be insanely large, but must be diverse, not just architects. I don't agree with Banet here, and I'll never agree. For the time being, I am teaching a little more on architecture in Maribor, which is a little more constructionistic than architecture in Ljubljana, because in Maribor architects have to listen to a few things together with the builders. They don't like it a little bit, but sometimes it's good to know when your dick is cut off, how to put it down. It doesn't hurt, and there's something else in it. That's why I don't think it can be an RRA pendant, and some RRAs are doing well. Some RRAs have at some point become more of a semi-family company, we know that. That's what you have to say. When I listened to you, Mr. Minister, I remembered, I used to lie with students once, and we were in Trzin and we were just passing Peršak and we started talking. In the congregation, he ran out of envelopes to make, but they did not know where to put the britoff. In Slovenian cases, however, a very successful municipality. That's, I'll say, some practice. It's a space world. When I listened to you – um, maybe I would have been better, but probably the only one, I think, for such a small or large country, a Swiss model that we would have been asked by ministries to have about six, and seven by horizontal we would have one joint ministry that would touch the space in a narrow sense. In short, what you are, and what you are, and what you are, and what you are, agriculture, and four, would be one ministry, and then we wouldn't have excuses. Of course we'd have noises, but it would have happened inside the Ministry. On the other hand, if the model I've already said is closer to the models known to the Dutch, the Danes, than anyone else. But we have a bigger problem at human level because we all turn on too much. We also have a problem at the level of moderators, because it has to be someone who's trained to understand the content and that he can get these people on some common denominator to find a solution. I understand about the facades, and I also understand that you have to be officially burned, that the van will pick up your baby and take it to school, because I am also primarily with the villages. But like you said, you don't have a single person with us who can do a byte without a loan. And even if I put that Dickaucic aside, 30 thousand municipal contributions to St.Cel, with all due respect to St. Cele, then love God, what is it, Monaco or what? Okay, it's after the new one. Even this thought, of course, I also understand that the municipalities want some money to build the infrastructure and that they are now Bentish, I also understand the other logic that you have said, these pennies will not fly as much as they will fly. If I touch the service. Because Levica published it there, I'm the owner, I'm about 20 kilometers from Maribor's weak thousands of square feet, it's officially six parcels in two cadastral municipalities. We should also make the cadastral splash, and we should probably shoot it for a third, and then less exercise would be at the service. Well, notaries would make a little less money on that. Many times this happened because there was a public road or something that was moving a little bit, and then you have no idea what, a road 50 meters wide, long, I don't know, 12 meters, two parcels, two catastrian congregations. Okay, now we've inherited this from the descendants of Mary Teresa. During its time, railways in Slovenia were not built, as was mostly said wrong. If we go to see our pumpkin, our countryside, because it looks good from afar, when you get close, often God save it, chicken. Then you have along with a nice, old, falling byte, which just came out of the fact that you were once disadvantaged, you were, too, we're going to say, Venezuelan architecture, you were locally, regionally limited to material, and you'd need architectural counseling, just like we have energy counseling. With all the money the country has, with all the beautiful young people I teach them so far, let's give them a job in Slovenia, I don't know, 50 people, 3 juries something gross a month, so that because of me, it will be from dog's influence to the roof to draw something that will have some form. In this way, you are also essentially burdening the congregations with certain inspections, since they will basically not have to be done. If I come back. Either way, we have two big problems. One problem is a scattered settlement. We've got over 6,000 settlements, a little less than 6,000 of them populated, we'd like to have everything everywhere. There's no Swiss in the world where that would be possible, I'm afraid. On the other hand, we have a very old apartment fund. I don't know if Lacaton & Vassal bureau means anything to you. This year's Pritzker Award winner is the Nobel Prize for Architecture, the French, the Lady and the Lord, and Anne and Jean-Phillippe, who are essentially involved in what? They were very famous for the fact that some old functionalist buildings, towers, social housing are being restored as needed, with relatively little money – leaving more light, up and down. I'm not gonna have a class right now, I'm not in college, but that's what we're gonna have to deal with, after all. At some point, I remember 20 years ago, there at Argentina Park the most expensive square in Ljubljana. If you get to know it a little bit, you know that's not exactly the case. We were running away from here. The National Assembly was shaking. We fantasize about wood up and down, we never get to the implementation level, except that some SMC uncles get hired at MGRT, with all due respect for them. We can take a ride to Vorarlberg, where they made this a global story, building in wood. As far as certain opinions are concerned and so on, digitisation. Thematic cards, thematic solutions, some solutions typical Goodbye, because I know you have other obligations, I don't blame you. [[…]] This is what the late meteorologist Trontel explained when the first years of the worst storms appeared to us. He said that we had already made a map of Slovenia in 2002 and 2003 where it was clear where more currents were going, where less currents were going. This too will have to be thought after all, for every few years our roofs will be rocked, as we do. A friend of mine who became Minister in 2002 and 2003 said that until I became Minister, I did not know that Slovenia was so repulsive. There's another story. That I won't be too long, because I know I'm talking to myself more. Let's go back to the story that first this government pisses off NGOs and then somehow let them back in half. Why are you doing this? We're all tired of this fellow, half lost, and then you're actually making a fool of one person, most of them young because of generational differences they can't even get any better paid services. For no money they work there, they have a lot of knowledge, then they have to be bludgeoned. Stop doing that, please. You know, the approach, as it's taken here, is going to be somehow more responsible on the designer, Austrian-German, domestically, I don't have a problem with that, but then you have to look at the purchasing power a little bit. It's expensive there, too. There's a difference. There's a difference between Castle and Vienna. Vienna has the best housing policy in the world. She's a lot better than ours, but still. The architects will also want to survive, you'll want to work the house somehow, and then it'll be here, I'm afraid, in the practice of cygumig. Do you understand what I'm saying? In some societies that, of course, have a lot more respect for the spatial order, where they have more money because they're not as tight as the Swiss, like my generation, you're making this story easier. At this point, I'd stop. We've got a lot of work to do. Actually, I'd like to call the opposition here as well. I hope that, as too often happens in this almost pre-election time, we will now compete among ourselves. So that it doesn't happen now that the opposition will make four amendments, order likes to make one amendment, then someone who doesn't get elected will save their ass, give another amendment, then we'll have a session when we're all lost in the middle, then we'll take something and we'll figure out in half a year that we'll actually do some shit. Let's all take it into our hands, because this is some issue where we all want to have some order that can also be implemented in practice, and that we all have within these dimensions, as much money as we have public and private and investment, better, better, quality, more aesthetic life. But I absolutely disagree with you, Bane, whether you resent me or not, that you are the only architects who know what is aesthetic in space. It just doesn't hold. Ana Roš is not an architect, she graduated from diplomacy, and I eat on a spoon, not just at her place, but her plate is aesthetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Željko Cigler, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u46	Madam President, thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The spatial regulation law and the construction law currently under consideration are an important part of environmental policy in our country. We are following the programming password in Levica to reverse the direction of environmental policy, not to be subordinated to the interests of capital anymore, but to serve its true purpose and to ensure a safe and healthy environment for all. To sum up the debate held so far on these two laws, in particular on the Infrastructure Committee, there is one general conclusion that legislation is not accepted for the benefit of all of us in this country, but rather for the worship of capital. Although strategically, such an approach in its projects, the construction of infrastructures and so on cannot follow shortcuts, irrespective of the environment and without ensuring public participation. For very many of these projects, let it be Magna, let it be the 3rd development axis, the Mokrice and something else, I could just say that these projects confirm my words. That's all I'd say because the previous Minister Visjak spoke about the municipal contribution. For many municipal communities, the municipal contribution is extremely important, but not only financially. In fact, the municipal contribution by law is not becoming a better tool for spatial policy and development, but increasingly procedural, increasingly standardised matters and this is not right. That's not right. If I go directly to my thinking at GZ-1, I'd say this. Such extensive legislative changes would certainly require longer treatment, especially in the GZ-1 Construction Law, as the House of Architecture and Space last pointed out on the Infrastructural Committee and many other panellists so far, as it concerns both designers and equality in the procedures of all citizens. Next. The public competition, equality of professions and the manageable scope of project documentation focusing on content and not only on the provision of data should lead this new bill, but this is not in GZ-1. With such a degraded space as in Slovenia, in particular Anhovo, if I once again expose the disappearing landscapes, poor architectural image and ever new capital forecasts, what it will build, but not strategically studied interventions, disregarding the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and the short-sightedness and attitude towards culture in general, and in particular rejecting architectural competitions, this is an illustration that is not to our pride and is not in favour of the future spatial development of Slovenia. Nor is it in the light of the new European Bauhaus, which means a comprehensive approach to a built environment, part of which is also a public competition. The quality of the built environment and the open landscape lies before our eyes and the law, that is GZ-1, this breakdown only accelerates. From the identity of the space comes a wide range of economic industries from tourism to tourism. The deletion of the role of architects and architecture in this is only proof of the lack of visibility, of one political calculation spatially and architecturally, and of the inappropriate placement of capital to the detriment of all. Above all, the sacrifice of the identity of the country, where it is obviously only commercial typologies. You know, at every place we see, at the beginning of the city is Hofer, at the end is Lidl or at the beginning is Lidl, at the end is Hofer, in between, if there's space, and there's Mercator. I'd like to point this out. Exclusion of the public and the procedural threat to environmental protection are not simplification of procedures, but degradation of standards achieved. All this stuff, including increasing redundancies to black constructions, is a re-populated political practice that, together with ZUREP-3, rewards harmful interventions into space and gives them always a green light. And this degradation of the environment, without public attention, has been particularly significant in putting the 3rd development axis into a space that has not yet been completed, not to mention anything else, because there are many cases in this national council when everything touches the environment falls out. GZ-1 sets out exceptions to development projects and thus allows the Ministry to be solicited in the issue and control of licences. But according to practice, as we have seen in Magna, it does not allow confidence in the honesty of legislative changes, and it is more perceived as a bypass of the necessary standards and the purpose of excluding the public. If you remember what happened to lex magna. But I'd say this about ZUreP-3. The blood law of space regulation is ZUREP, clearly, an ad hoc interference with this law with other laws and several times with the exclusion of municipal spatial acts is problematic. The reckless rush to do so is even more inappropriate. The Ministry of the Environment in the law waives responsibility for the situation in the space by declaring in the law that it is only one of the operators of the regulation of the premises and not the umbrella coordinator of the interests of the premises. I ask why the Ministry of Environment and Space, which should be the bearer of the urgent green transformation, leaves the initiative to others, particularly the capitalist more aggressive and aggressive ministries, and cannot bear the exercise of its mission. Here I am thinking in particular of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure. The ILO practically renounces its sovereignty. I have repeatedly tried to point this out to the Minister through the questions of the Member States on a case-by-case basis. Such cases are very large, I will only expose one of them, open up, and this is when I gave him the initiative to oversee the legality of the municipal decree and protect the rights of residents in Delavska Street in Celje, where there is an unbearable situation where a strong factory literally works in the yard of residential blocks, and there is no way in which to live. Well, I gave the Minister initiative 13. Seven. 2021, according to Rule 248 of the Rules of Procedure, is now 70 days from now, Mr Minister does not take the initiative and the initiative touches on the important constitutional and legal rights of the inhabitants of this country. As the ZUreP-3 is now ready, the ministry will be even less concerned, it will be highlighted as a key moment of coordination of the country's space policy. There is a risk that, with the specific provisions of ZUREP-3, spatial acts become only data sets of different institutions and their basic purpose, that is to regulate space, is placed in a purely subordinate position. Nor does the law solve the inoperability of municipal spatial plans, which are found to be inappropriate in their scope and preparation for planning at all levels. While the law brings news where interventions into space can be regulated in various ways, there is a lack of operational intermediate level of PUP-type acts that we have given up too quickly in the past, as well as a stronger implementation of the strategic urban and landscape design. Therefore, the OPNs are too extensive, long-termly adopted acts that simplify the image of the Slovenian space, because they are all too universal and do not generate the necessary differences to support the rehabilitation of the space and the maintenance and care of the specifics of the space to which certain projects are set. However, the breakdown of strategic plans is welcome, especially the municipal spatial plans, which we can only hope will be better taken into account than the current strategies, especially the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia. Taking into account and adopting strategies for all decision makers in space and not sector-specifically, projects in the country should run better, coordinated, supported and, for example, transport links would not turn their heads and operate under such conditions that normal minds do not understand this, as is the case with the placement of the 3rd development axis or with its construction. There is no responsibility in the country, the space regulators fail to regulate the records and do not support the procedures sufficiently. This is very evident in individual, in particular state-funded projects in the municipalities, and I will not now mention what I mean in Celje, this is not Delavska Street, of course. In the clairvoyant image of our paradise under the Triglav, the law still favors a dispersed settlement. With the site verification instrument, it is much easier to intervene into the open space, which is unacceptable in terms of the degradation of our landscapes, and in terms of the priority of construction in the regulatory areas of the settlements, this decree departs from the principles of space regulation. This proposal for a law means a rejection. The law highlights the public interest and its sustainability in unacceptable compliance with the law is a legitimate private initiative that may require compensation in the event of non-conclusion for its enforcement. Here, however, the environment and the space of inadmissible retreat and the public interest are not professionally protected, and the congregations themselves have already proved to be quite weak in its defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Horvat, prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! I also look forward to the continuation of this debate on extremely important laws, the package of two new laws, the law on the regulation of space and the construction law. It's an extremely complex content. I guess we all agree that none of these laws can fix some things back, but it's not possible, the time has passed. Maybe just for a start. When my generation was building, I wanted to be there in Prekmurje to find a project of a modern Pannonian house, but I couldn't find it. And you know how we built it back then. I drew it myself and I found a plan in a Belgrade bureau, paid it, came by post office, and the thing went on. That's why we have a picture like this, yes, even the countryside we have today. You just can't fix it in the back. The general assessment, my personal and our parliamentary groups, is that it must be acknowledged that the package of these two laws is indeed a package that is suitable for further consideration, which I look forward to and I wish it to be as soon as possible. Today we're talking and we're going to talk a lot about space, about a three-dimensional space right now, because our senses don't detect any more dimensions. We are placed in this place from the beginning to the death. This space also generates huge amounts of data, not information, of course information, but huge amounts of data that we need to take into account in life. Jeremy Waite, IBM, wrote in one of his blogs about the data that 90% of all data in the world has been produced in the last 12 months. It is true, however, that 80% of all data is unstructured, which means they are not meaningfully useful. Space. Of course, let us first think about the space our country has. I'm still using the number 20,000 square miles. Why 73? Because the decision of the arbitral tribunal has not yet been de jure or de facto implemented. That's why I prefer to use this bigger number. Space, our space is a limited natural asset that needs to be handled with extreme care and completeness. It is a mirror of society, since all our behavior – economically, socially and individually – leaves traces in space. We leave our traces in space, special culture, identity and state of the spirit in society, our past and prospects for the future. It reflects the performance of economic and social development and the quality of spatial potential management. The decision on the construction and use of space is subject to the rules that ensure the protection of space as a key source for the development of the community, in our case our Slovenian community. The common starting points for further development in space are, of course, the provision of decent housing for everyone, the redesign of settlements in terms of new social and spatial cohesion and greater levels of social interaction and the provision of conditions for everyday life in historic urban centres. The common starting points are also the restriction of scattered building and the protection of unburied space, heating, cooling and lighting of buildings without further destruction of the environment, the protection of national, regional and local visibility of space, architecture and landscape, and the provision of the development of modern architecture. Sustainable spatial development is a fundamental principle and guide that we follow in guiding the spatial development of Slovenia. We assume that space is a limited good that requires careful coordination of public benefits and private interests and long-term spatial planning. I am pleased that in the introduction, Minister Vizjak said that the practical optimization, improvements in the text of these two laws, also in the government, did not end when the Government practically forwarded both draft laws to the National Assembly. He announced some of the improvements that we expected in New Slovenia, we welcome them, and we will also support them in the second reading at the home work body. There was a lot of talk in these days about architects and architects. We have many of them in Slovenia, and we can also say exceptional ones on a global level. Yeah, who wouldn't appreciate it? That is why I was so much more concerned or concerned by the proposal to convene an urgent meeting of the two committees, i.e. the culture and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, when the applicants, as some axiom, wrote in the title of the item on the agenda about: Government plans for the evaluation of the profession of architect. I think if we ever know how to ban a session, there should be a filter here too. I have no problem opening the debate on this, but if the evaluation is true and the evaluation is to take place, then it must be the result of a debate, not just an axiom. We don't approve of that. But I am kind of happy, and here I am grateful to our fellow master of construction sciences, Mr Andrej Reich, who has put the matter on the Home Working Committee at least roughly in the right direction and has somehow neutralized the extreme positions in this regard. But it's just like a call. It was also obvious that everything was too fast and so on, without including the profession and so on. We must not forget that the Construction Law, which is now – in fact, it is not a reform, but rather an upgrade – that it was adopted in October 2017, is four years ago. We do a lot of things here, and we think it's very good and we're happy and so on. But when marriage, even as complex as construction, begins to take place in practice, and then there are problems. And that is exactly the situation we had and still have with the previous, still valid construction law. Therefore, just a month after the adoption of the current construction law, the then Minister, the Ministry of Environment and Space, can also say evaluation. But this wasn't just happening in the ministry with people who are at the Ministry of Environment and Space. There were 437 members of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and the Chamber of Architecture and Space. But it's a negligible number, I can't judge it, but 437 members of the Engineering Chamber and the Architecture Chamber and the space is a relevant number for me. Next, there were 163 employees in individual municipalities, 152 employees in administrative units working with this legislation. Then the Notary Chamber, the Real Estate Chamber, 85 members of the Chamber of Commerce and 394 investors. And of course, all of these, I think there were about a thousand 500 comments and proposals, had to be processed, evaluated, Of course, it is right and welcome that this law also eliminates the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the current construction law, where there are provisions relating to the action of inspectors in the event of illegal construction. Among other things, the Construction Law is coordinated or the entire package is aligned with European legislation. The key solutions, once again highlighted by the legislative proposals, are changes to achieve the objectives of de-liberating procedures. We probably all agree here that not only these procedures but also many others are too liberal with us. It is said that procedures are debirocratised and data and processes digitised. I am therefore pleased that the Strategic Council for Digitalisation here has also very clearly articulated and announced great steps in the near future in order to obtain new building permits. This seems understandable to me, especially when it comes to some simple objects, a simple object is also a residential house. It is proposed to establish a portal through which we will be able to submit the entire documentation with an application for a building permit online and then monitor the status of our role throughout this process. That way, we'll know exactly what stage our role is. This will, of course, increase the transparency of procedures and at the same time accelerate the issuance of building permits. All of this, these two objectives, namely de-mobilisation and digitisation, of course, are being established with a view to more efficient management of procedures, the preparation of spatial acts at national and local level and more effective management of land policy as key elements for achieving sustainable spatial development. With the recast of this legislation, we are upgrading the procedures that have been put in place so far. On the basis of identified shortcomings and errors, we are correcting and supplementing existing regulatory solutions so that it is possible to implement construction procedures more quickly and efficiently in the same way as ensuring the protection of public interests and the legal safety of all participants in construction. The construction law offers the possibility of obtaining a building permit after a reduced conclusion procedure within 30 days, in accordance with the ZUP, and its treatment via the State Cloud e-space and e-building. The law re-enables the possibility that the investor can start building on his own responsibility even after the completion of the building permit when it comes to non-environmental objects. We've listened to the economy, to the economic operators. In fact, companies will be able to place temporary storage facilities outside existing facilities for a period of up to three years and, if necessary, to obtain a building permit in parallel. The concept is being introduced — as has been said today — by a smaller reconstruction, bridging the gap between maintenance and reconstruction. I also welcome the dose of the municipal contribution to be made after obtaining the building permit, but before starting construction. This provision will not apply as soon as envisaged, but after the procedure has been informed. There's a lot of stuff and upgrades, and I'm not gonna list them all. Maybe just two more. In cases where, due to a natural or other accident, such as a fire, the damaged facility is to be repaired as soon as possible, the possibility of setting up the first condition shall be introduced only on the basis of the application of the start of the construction and the building permit shall be obtained subsequently. I think it's a logical solution that we welcome. And of course, normally, there is an additional legal basis for electronic business, e-building, and the implementation of treatments using audiovisual technology. As we have already announced, Members of New Slovenia will be confirmed or voted in favour of the conclusion that both laws are suitable for further consideration, which we look forward to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Dr. Runcho, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u50	Yeah, actually, it's a short replica. At first, I recognized that some criticism, when I wrote down the views of the Social Democrats, was a little too fast. I will say, from the number of comments and also from this issue, that constitutionally it is the responsibility of the congregation, the jurisdiction of the State, that is to say. Of course, one such problem is characterized by a lot of suggestions and comments. I'd like more, but, you know, the quantity itself doesn't give you quality. It's about grading professions. You know, some professions are largely self-degradable if they are allowed to be politicized; we already have a practice of doing so. I did not mention – because, unfortunately, I have to escape, I have some meetings about this legislation – architectural competitions. The problem of architectural competitions, you know, as this government is absorbing, I would just call it some sort of ideologie of tannedness. Architectural competitions, open international architectural competitions, you actually need studies to make some professions live. To have different views that there are exchanges of knowledge and so on, but from the 5,000 for students mainly from the Balkans, you can see the direction this government is going and the thinking is wrong. So much for a little while. However, as far as I am allowed, I will, of course, follow this continuation of the meeting and, of course, also look forward to the debate on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Dushan Verbich, prepare the mags. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Surely my debate will be somewhat more general in nature. Clearly, even with the shades of the debate so far and the introduction of only a few words concerning spatial legislation. The proposal before us is, therefore, the Law on the regulation of space, I am somehow in the position to lay the conditions for the procedures at the Ministry of the Environment and the area for obtaining the OPN, but I will not, because I think that all of us here know what this shortcut means. The OPN is one of the key elements or act for municipalities and will be a significantly shorter time to obtain such documents, which we know is the procedure for obtaining these documents. Indeed, it is sad that the individual congregations have literally waited five to ten years for various reasons, but when we talk about greater investment in construction, this is unacceptable. Surely these are the beehives in the development of many congregations because of this weakness, the irregularity of spatial legislation in the process of regulating the premises themselves, and so forth. A number of investors, who are still interested in some development working in a particular congregation, are reluctant to do so. Therefore, I believe that this change is somehow the basis for this to improve. The next thing is because I come from the Municipality of Ljubljana, I also have to mention the following on this occasion. How important it is to regulate the space at the level of each municipality and here I can say with pleasure that the excellent operation of the Ljubljana Municipality sub-district is Prof. Kožega, who for a long time certainly lays the strategic basis for managing the premises in the municipality itself. That is why I can say that I am a great advocate of the proposal that the congregations stand up somehow or that they have a so - called urban urbanist. This is one of the key elements, I will almost say, in the area of space regulation and construction itself, if this system is also established in this context. Many interests, not even investors, were also partly capitalized, intertwined in these segments, and it is right that this has a decisive role for the profession and this is somehow in this role of city architect. That is why I am even more stressing, for I myself know a little bit about how the matter is regulated in the neighbouring country, Vienna, and the summary of some such regulation of the premises of the city municipality, as I have mentioned, from which I also come, is somehow a summary of their good practice. Or if we take Paris or any European capital, because they are specific, even for smaller places, a systemic approach is desirable. So much for this so-called spatial legislation. More than that, I simply have to commit to building legislation. I must admit, when a person listens attentively, not to debaters, because I am grateful that the debaters are quite familiar with this kind of topic. There have been some unusual issues in the presentation of the views, so I will allow myself to mention something. Construction licences are issued in the Republic of Slovenia at the first stage in two different areas or segments. At the first stage of the issue of the Ministry, it is the environment and space, the building permits for the so-called state projects, and this is generally reflected in these so-called infrastructures and so on. What has been said today, however, is already quite a number of criticisms, justified more or less, but not entirely, but is the issue of construction permits in 58 administrative units across Slovenia. Why did I somehow touch this kind of darkness? Especially because something's forgotten. To issue a building permit, no matter who issues it on the first stage, is one of the key conditions of a material regulation, and this is a proposal for an amendment or a new one, as we say, the Construction Law, but a little more, and clearly also certain other laws, which somehow relate to this matter. However, due to long-term procedures or long-term construction permits, a key procedural law is the Administrative Procedure Act. The law itself, which actually applies to all administrative authorities or officials, is very clear and foresees and establishes and binds any administrative authority, in which case also for the building permit, a maximum period of 60 days. Unfortunately, we are facing, and also in the introductory presentations, I think that the information was given that the average time to resolve the issue of construction permits in Slovenia, then probably administrative units, was over 170 days. Very bad! And the key question is when will this move significantly in a really short time? Because if it's for someone, then it's still important to the investor. When we talk about the length of the deadlines or when it was presented, however, somehow on this occasion I will allow this information to be somewhat misleading. And why is that? The fact is that the information we have not heard today, and I assume that even at the second reading of this topic, we will most likely not get to it, let us be objective about how much time is spent to issue building permits. Why am I stressing this in particular? Therefore, before mentioning that the Administrative Procedure Act makes it very clear that the 60-day deadline for issuing such or any such decisions, authorisations and so on is provided that the applications are complete. Here I can tell you very clearly that many times he deceives himself with these hands, because with full roles the picture is completely different, at which time some administrative authority, at least this ministry or administrative unit, issues some building permit. For in the issue of building permits, it must be acknowledged that there are a number of procedural activities that investors tend to influence, so that I do not speak to foreign interveners, recently a civil initiative that, in one way or another, wants to exercise its interests. It is also true, but these are things that still have a bearing on the length of some procedures and tend to be very complicated. So much for that. And I would like to ask that, as we continue to discuss this subject, let us be objective about those who carry out these matters. And I don't defend them, because there are weaknesses on their side too, but one of the key problems and problems with the effectiveness of shorter deadlines is that it's really tricky when you don't somehow mention the perfection of the role. I also have to ask myself on this occasion who the content of the Construction Law is intended for. I think that today, and also by the proposaler, there were simply not many words. It is inevitable and the fact is that it is primarily intended for investors of any form of construction, and this one wants the necessary building permit to be obtained as soon as possible and if it is indeed the right investor to start construction immediately. I can say that this sounds very nice, even easy, but as I have already ordered a little, many reasons often arise that complicate things, so that the investor himself loses – for the first time, much time, energy so that I do not speak any money, costs to get a building permit. Just for refreshments, which are the things that I believe are somehow necessary by building legislation to go against investors in order to get this timeline as short as possible. In the first place, what I have already mentioned in the introduction is either unregulated or incompletely adopted by the OPPN at the level of the municipalities. And that's what I'm done with. We know that 212 congregations are not going to speak, some have extraordinary things, and there are congregations that are very macho about such acts. Then, in my debate, I also give a little criticism to investors who have a bad hand in choosing designers to design projects to obtain a building permit. At the same time, this is one of the strengths of important matters, and this is a criticism of the issuer of various agreements, so that objects of particular importance – and I have to point out here the weaknesses of such publishers, which are usually on the side of the Ministry of Field Affairs, as regards the environment, so that I will not talk about water, so that I will not talk about other ministries, where facilities of particular cultural importance and so on. Thus, the investor and also these processes for obtaining a building permit are complex and it is necessary to have and secure certain consents, and these timelines are unusually long here in comparison with the neighbouring country. Certainly, some of these timelines are also influenced by dissatisfied natural or legal persons who appear in these processes of obtaining a building permit, not to mention various civil initiatives, as I mentioned earlier, and by societies that are literally appearing as a side intervention in these processes. I am pleased that, in some previous additional explanation, the Minister has somehow given some particular weight to this group, because these are things that are relatively complicated by the current regulation, but that is true, but with some good regulation and satisfaction, if I may say so, some foreign interveners can also speed it up. Now, a few words about the marriage itself. I must admit that, if I say so in the introductory paragraphs, the presentation of this bill is as follows, and it is best that I read these paragraphs so that we can understand better what my thoughts or thoughts are. The following is written: “The application for building permits is complete in certain cases, even if it is not yet the right to build”. Now, honourable proponents, I know that you are well aware of something; that one building permit is complete, definitive, and one is legal, and that is an essential substantive difference and how it affects any further processes, complications and so on. So it's final and legal. What you had in mind here is to speed up on one side of the investors, here I welcome, but just from some such cases you can now assess that many of the avoidances or irregularities in the final stage that are being reduced in black construction can happen; that I will not talk about unnecessary administrative or even judicial disputes and proceedings. It is further written, “For most of the buildings, the possibility of building after the completion of the building permit” is allowed. In this context, you can also understand me when I was just thinking, commenting on the previous line. If I finish, as far as both of you are concerned. I myself assess that the possibility of abuse concerning such matters and this uncertainty in particular cases that will be dealt with by officials has only happened that there will be virtually unequal practices in the Republic of Slovenia. And if I conclude, we strongly oppose the provision of a municipal contribution that is not a condition for issuing a building permit. The municipal contribution is the original income of municipalities. Too many abuses have occurred, and I hope you will change something further in this segment. Of course, in the first phase, I support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! My debate will take place in two parts; first in a work where I do not agree with certain debaters, then I will justify why I agree. As I have already said on one of the committees, after my primary education, I have been a university graduate civil engineering engineer, a member of the Engineering Chamber, in order to perform my duties in peacemaking, and also because I would not accidentally be in conflict of interest on the previous committee, where we addressed the topic of alleged denial of the competence of architects, I did not vote. So I did it exclusively for that purpose, and I think it's right. As regards one comment on which profession is dominant or not, I will only say that the classification of the objects to which the Chamber of Architecture and Space referred stems from the United Nations statistical classification and this United Nations classification is not intended to debate which profession is dominant. I will read what the tasks of this United Nations organization are, and I will read it in English as well. »The United Nations Statistics Division is committed to the advancement of the global statistical system. We compile and disperse global statistical information, development standards and standards for statistical activities and support countries' efficiency to strength their national statistical systems. We facilitate the coordination of international statistical activities and support the function of the United Nations statistical commission as the epics entity of the global statistical system.» I hope this has made this debate definitively concrete. I don't think it's appropriate for the differences of the Houses to be transferred to the National Assembly. And I'm going to end up here in this sense, and even less, I think it's appropriate for engineers to kind of stand up as capital advocates. Then what are the students? Just to think what all the words were flying to the students who will start their school year in a good week. As far as two laws are concerned, they make the necessary changes. Although I am not inclined to change construction laws every few years. I hope that after the adoption of this legislation at least 10 years or 20 years of peace, and this legislation will not be affected in a substantive sense. I think it is very important that the essence of regional planning is given to ZUREP to address the problem of regional planning. This means that it encourages local communities to participate in the exercise of common interests, and I will describe this in a very plastic way. So when Magna looked for a location in the area of the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Maribor did not have one. Then ad hoc found a location in Hotch, and that's where they started all the procedures. I will not go into these procedures, but if the local communities had already cooperated more carefully and looked in the area of the common space where they would develop matters, they would probably have a pre-prepared location for such a factory. Therefore, I think it is very important that such matters are encouraged. As far as municipal contributions are concerned, the minister had a very substantive debate and justification here, and this is probably one of the incentives for municipalities to direct construction to areas where construction is appropriate and safe. I also agree that the municipal contribution of 30 000 euros is high, but it is important to ask why such a contribution is. Maybe it's two or three kilometers, I'm talking, but maybe the land is two, three kilometers away from the nearest water supply and you have to build a water supply, you have to build an electricity. These are the reasons, I'll say, bad spatial samples, why utility is expensive. I agree that one multi-community group planning will also allow for the identification of degraded and underexploited areas. Of course I support that. I also support this so that the congregations can start to resolve housing in a group manner. We need to be aware that housing is one of the key needs of people. And if prices are such that they are virtually unable to afford them, then young people begin to think about seeing their future abroad after they have completed their studies. Therefore, certain changes are necessary if we know that the wardrobe in Maribor is around 350 euros, in Ljubljana 500 euros, a two-bedroom apartment in Maribor about 500 euros, in Ljubljana about 800 euros rent, then it is clear that in these two cities you will not get a nurse, you will not get a young doctor, you will not get a young engineer, because simply with the salaries they have, you cannot cover these costs. I think there is a very important aspect here that the common needs of the community begin to be addressed. And it is also right to encourage local communities to do so. I must say that in this context it would be right or possible — that is the subject of another law — to refer to what tasks the congregation must carry out. And if a congregation does not, for example, perform all its tasks, then it is necessary to make it clear who is doing it. For example, the Municipality of Maribor is co-founder of the city’s Medo-Chinese Housing Fund. If one congregation does so, the other municipalities do not carry out these obligations and do not solve these problems, but they get the same average. So, equal headquarters, of course, that's not right. And such matters will have to be addressed in one broad sense and also show clearly what are the tasks of the congregation, whose tasks it must also provide in accordance with its spatial planning and then act. Construction legislation in itself, its basic purpose is to ensure and follow the needs of society. This is the basic task of building and spatial legislation, and if we are talking about how it ensures the interests of society, it is also that it provides the need to put infrastructure into space, that is, infrastructure that provides our basic needs. We're not building a power plant because we're protecting the interests of capital, but because we need electricity. We don't build roads to profit from this, but because we need someone to come to our home or to communicate in that sense. We must be aware that we are primarily putting objects in the space to meet our needs. I have repeatedly asked myself how, now that the European Commission is announcing new more stringent measures, i.e. on greenhouse gas emissions reduction, spatial and environmental legislation plays a very important role in this regard. But if we have to achieve significantly more ambitious goals by 2030, then we will have to place all of these procedures, which are now taking place for 20 years, in a short time; that is to say, legally and definitively. This means putting procedures into space to accelerate, speed up all authorisation and consent procedures and, of course, there is one legitimate question here how all stakeholders will be involved so that their procedural rights are not violated. This is a major challenge, as I have also pointed out to the European Commissioner for Energy, who was in the National Assembly this week. She said that the European Commission would draw up examples of good practices and I hope that the Ministry will then take account of this practice in some way in its procedures. However, the legislation is difficult, it addresses a number of issues that I will say will prove to be true at one time. So, we will make some further comments during the debate and in the course of all the adoption procedures, and I hope that once this legislation is adopted, it will not change for 20 years so that those who use it and those who use it can and will be able to make good use and interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, good day to all! In this proposal, I would like to point out, as the biggest disadvantage, this removal of interference to architects, that they are project managers for building buildings. Before I begin to elaborate on this, I would also like to explain that I am misunderstood that in my position or earlier in the debate on the committee I may have declared that architects are the only ones who know what is beautiful. I couldn't make that statement, and, of course, that's misunderstood. Of course, each has its own aesthetics, but the fact is that the only educations of the architect and the landscape architect in the concept are so wide that in managing the design of buildings and of course open urban spaces, which is even more specific, they also include aspects of technology, humanities, sociology, art and, of course, not least and not least, only a constructive component of the built space. Thus, the view that the education of an architect does not include the necessary knowledge in the field of construction structures is equally misleading and is here misexposed. I must say that during our schooling architects we have very difficult objects from reinforced concrete structures, wooden structures, steel structures and resistance, resistance to material, but, of course, architects are not trained to guarantee the stability of the building, for this is a particular profile of the building engineer, and this is generally known. But it is true that no architect can be wrong in defining the wrong place of support, the wrong translation, that he cannot assess what tensions are happening in the material and what needs to be predicted not to break the structure; so there is no fear. These aren't some ignorant beauty scenes he's trying to show up for. And I really have to stand up for this because I'm the only one here who represents this thesis. It is therefore quite strange that the architects, after this new proposal, which I strongly hope will be changed and will not live in the same form as it is now, cannot be the building manager for smaller reconstructions and why only construction engineers are responsible for this. Because just the sensitivity of a reconstruction is what concerns the lives of people in this facility, and it does not mean that it is just that some space with one translation ensures that the ceiling does not fall. It is a whole object that must live in a way that is in the spirit of new needs, in the spirit of time, with respect for the tradition it itself brings from the time in which it came. For all of this, he is the most qualified profile that had all these subjects and programs within the curriculum when he studied it. And if we see that in such a case, the new law proposes that only a construction engineer can lead such a project, then it is clear that some other profession is privileged and they are not architects. Since, with the exception of the study of landscape architecture at the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering in Ljubljana, no other engineering studies are engaged in an in-depth and practical approach to the construction of buildings and the regulation of urban or rural areas. Now that you see that, according to the new proposal of the law, it is a matter for the project manager to break the spear, I would like to say that according to the old law, which has long been valid, that the project manager has been appointed by the investor, and how natural it is that in the vast majority of cases it was a person with whom the investor started communication and cooperated from the beginning, from the very idea forward. So when planning the building, the first ideas were always designed by an investor with an architect, by engineering buildings with a building engineer, and by electrical projects with an electrical installation engineer, an electrical engineer. So, it was some natural process of division of tasks and responsibilities that has been in force since the 1984 Construction Act. And all the engineers, since architects are also considered engineers, we cooperated in co-existence and mutual respect. In fact, I am concerned that the Minister has decided to accept the pressures of an engineering lobby, not as much as large projective companies, which have found that they no longer need to hire architects and simply declare themselves project leaders. Because if we come to this, we can also come to the point that all the buildings that will be built in the future, larger buildings, will look like shopping malls on the outskirts of our big cities, as you see them today. Of course, no one is opposed to the architecture of these shopping centers, but because they are on the outskirts because they are not part of urban tissue because they are not somewhere where people live, where they grow up, they are educated, and from children they become adults. I hope that somehow we understand how important it is not to overlook why this profession, which has lasted for two thousand years, needs this role in the design and management of this project. Because who defends an architect in the construction process is the same as at some surgical clinic in the case of a hematological one, for example, not to say gynecologically, the complications the clinic owner tells the on-call surgeon or an anesthesiologist, let's do this ourselves, let's not call the hematologist or the gynecologist, let's say. That doesn't come to any of the smart ones. While one wise person thinks that architects are excluded from one of the key processes in the design of the architectural ensemble. And I'm not gonna talk about it anymore, because I think I've explained enough, smart enough, and the rest of you will. The next problem is to avoid architectural competitions. I would like my colleagues to internalize what the architectural contests have brought Slovenian architecture, European, Central European architecture of the 20th century, just when it comes to our area, what quality. That anyone who chooses to invest his job and to work for two months, one month, six months at an architectural competition for perhaps no prize or for only a ransom prize or for almost nothing means that he really wants to participate in the search for the best solution for one difficult situation in the space. And if that is no longer the case, all those who had a vision will no longer have the opportunity to express that vision. As a society, we will be besieged for the possibility of getting the right solutions to come up with the right solutions. Because it's not a delusion that it still exists as a possibility. Once this does not exist as a possibility for a certain threshold of the financial fund for the construction of one facility or an ensemble, it is likely that everyone will avoid it, so that they will engage some of their famous authors, that they will probably also say about the library in a smaller center, yes, because they also have it in Switzerland, my neighbour will provide an ideal solution, and we will process something, then we will deal with the solution, as is already seen through some other forecasts in this law, to seek shortcomings and escape from some normal process. Therefore, it is not enough just to say in this debate whether we have support or support for the law or not, it is important to draw attention to the problems that are being raised here. These problems can be structured into some four points, so that only three years after the legislation which was put in place three years ago, these systems can be recast. This, of course, also opens up a number of problems for administrative units that simply issue building permits. This is also a bureaucracy of design. Here, too, I see the inequality of professions and in some ways the balance of professional competences, because someone will have competences that he does not have, just because he is in position and in the grace of the current minister. When it comes to this legislation, I remain very doubtful about the changes that have been made following a closed public debate. Some are disputed because of the consequences they may cause, but the very idea that when you conclude a public debate and then make new changes to the government, which others have not been able to say about, is very problematic and this is in practice over the last few months. We had cases when we thought we were agreed as a coalition, for example, for some solutions, and in the end we found that solutions are completely different. The next thing I'm worried about is the kick-out of NGOs with the status of action in the public interest. I know what it's meant to be for those who choose pure sport to just heat up their lives for investors. Of course, I'm not on my own, and I understand that, but it's about the legalization of unequal protection of rights, and something has to be done here. As suggested, it is simply not right, does not drink water and seems to be taking more rights than prevents injustice. And here I think the minister's team must imagine offering better or more sophisticated, more sophisticated solutions. When it comes to red tape and shorter issuance of building permits, of course, this depends – also said colleague Verbič – on the completeness of the role. But, you know, that's always the problem. Even in the old marriage we had a 30 - day deadline when the application is complete, a building permit must be issued. And as a rule, it's been issued, and the problem is that there's always trouble to find. Because it's a very lively substance and it's hard to make sure that something is resolved in 30 days, no matter where we are. Verification of compliance with the spatial act. For example, the bill states that this is news that there will be no further verification of compliance with the spatial act, but here we are on extremely thin ice. Because, how will compliance with the spatial act not be checked? This is the only guarantee that the construction that we are talking about, which is being considered, will nevertheless be found, whether it fits in this part or not, or whether it is after its borrowing, after the loading of the space, after the loading of the transport links, after the infrastructure is even sufficient or not. That's something that was crucial and they were the first to work in the administrative unit. Even if you were in a relationship, someone might have checked it out for you earlier, not to go down a dead end, to check it out as an investor, whether it works or not. Now if that's not gonna happen, I'm asking you where we are. How do we even know what we're getting ourselves into? And in the end. It is completely illogical to plan construction and to obtain a building permit parallel. How can this be parallel? I mean, as you might say, the first year of study and internship in this same class will be held in parallel. No, you have to finish first year, second year, fourth year, fifth year, sixth year, and then you're an intern. And that's not parallel. The project cannot be carried out in parallel, even though it is yet to be created. Then what are they going to check? There's an alarm. It has to be answered. And that's crucial, which I expect is that we have answers for the next reading of this law that we don't run away from. I don't know if any Slovenian minister for the environment and space ever had such an ignorant attitude towards architects. This is shocking because by nature these two categories, architects and the minister of environment and space, think and work or have to work hand in hand. The history of Slovenian architecture and urbanism will not be joined by the current minister with such views. Therefore, its serious response and correction of the proposed legal provisions can be the only way to calm the conflict. And regardless of the personal lack of feeling for the matter, which, as the minister responsible for it, should have, I expect answers – more than the expert team itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to be prepared by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Director, colleagues and, of course, all those accompanying today's meeting of the National Assembly! On our benches are two important laws, the Law on Environmental Management and the Construction Law. It seems to me that we have these two laws on the same table and that we are discussing them at the same time. Last week we had, and I spoke myself, one uncomfortable joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which I am leading, as well as the Committee on Culture. At that time our colleagues and colleagues, some who may have abused this segment, spoke about who is more important; whether they are the most important architects, which I highly respect, or whether they are more important engineers. All Slovenian knowledge of architects, engineers is invaluable and I respect them. Their knowledge, their experience, is reflected in every step we take when we move in the Republic of Slovenia, whether it is at national level, whether it is at local level, or if we step in front of an apartment house. I myself was a member of the Infrastructure Committee and also a member of the National Assembly in the previous term when we adopted the previous legislation. Of course, then and on the other hand, we've been doing a lot of work on who of the experts is more important and, of course, maybe one side was stronger and, as a result, we're probably changing these important two laws. It has been said from my previous debater that the Minister has no relation to architects. I think he does, because he appointed his State Secretary as an architect who is an architect by profession, so they cannot hold this claim. However, it is very important to me, and here I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Director and, of course, the entire team, who has been preparing for the amendment of these two laws all the time, but not because the Minister would like it either the Secretary of State or the Director, but it was a need that we have not heard enough today – investors. Of course, in the Republic of Slovenia, in Europe, we also have more investors in the world. The biggest investor is certainly the country that invests in state projects, we have investors in local communities, these are our municipalities, and of course we have companies, and private investors, who, of course, still care when they build their housing houses. In short, it is very positive to hear from time to time that someone went out to repair an important marriage such as these two marriages. But let me remind you that after this adopted law in 2018, which we discussed in 2017, as I have already mentioned, the Constitutional Court found that there are two articles, which was also given by the Court. 6. 2018 that the two Articles are incompatible. It is very commendable of all those who went to work then, which I think is extremely important, a survey among all stakeholders, local communities, investors, those who issue a building permit. When preparing this new law, which was also coordinated, which is also highly commendable, the entire list of stakeholders that coordinated it, from all the chambers, design bureaus, examined a thousand 500 comments coming from all over Slovenia from various experts and, above all, stakeholders. They have also aligned these two laws with European legislation, and we have not heard that today, or perhaps I have overheard it. I think a lot of effort has been made, and when we talk about these two important laws that touch all of us, and every single individual outside this national assembly, it seems right not to talk about these two laws, who is the most important in this law. I think we need to cut this off and that if we want to get a quality law that is currently under public scrutiny, I am confident that it will get a green light to go to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space in this National Assembly, and, of course, once again to this House of State. At that time — a few days, weeks, months, or months — it is enough time for all those who want to add something else to this law to make it better, and above all, I mean those who do not want to add to this law those spices that one profession is more important than the other. We will certainly be working in the Slovenian Democratic Party at this time with all Members and Members of our Group to see what we see, especially when we get from those who are working on it daily, so that we can improve something else. But when we talk about the Environmental Regulation Act, let me remind you that for a while, maybe two decades, I have been working in different areas in the local community. And if there have ever been comments about the adoption of the UN, we all know what this means, I agree with Mr Verbic, my colleague Verbic, that this is indeed a crumb of development. Perhaps one congregation is larger, the other congregation is smaller, and here I have in mind our investors. Let's imagine when it's one company to talk about businesses, to stop at the economy, because it's imperative to expand their production hall if I can call it that, and of course, these procedures take time, take time. But you know what we've been talking about for 30 years? The mayors, or those who are employed in the municipalities that run these procedures, must always make excuses for Ljubljana. We're always talking about Ljubljana. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when today out of 90 Members, Members and Members of Parliament, someone says a strange sentence, of course, a name and surname are written before him. When a minister or secretary of state messes up at any ministry, his name and surname are written in front. But when we talk about the development of the Republic of Slovenia, I am now referring to the UN, which is definitely 30 years of vehement development in the Republic of Slovenia, we always say yes to Ljubljana. From all parts of Slovenia they speak on Ljubljana. I would like us to stand here together, and I also think that this bill brings us closer to knowing, for God's sake, where things are stopping. But they stop at a minister, either with the President of the Government, or with the mayor, or with someone who's been working at one ministry or institution for 20 or 30 years, who's taken this job for his own, and he doesn't care when an entrepreneur who's bound to some kind of contract, I don't know, in Germany, Austria or even in America, months, years waiting for a document. And every month, he rejects his document that he still has something to add. See, in the National Assembly we are from various places of Slovenia, municipalities, different professions, many of us already have some gray hair. I think it's right that we could cut this bar of development and put things where they belong. Sometimes it pains me to hear some bureaucrat in some ministry – but I don't mean just the environment or the infrastructure or the agriculture – when the secretary of state thinks or the minister, let us leave, whether the government is left or right, I don't know, a year, two, maybe the minister will ever change in between, they will stay; we, as well as those who were before us in the National Assembly, those who are here today, and those who are coming after us, are always talking about the same things. But we are talking today, and once again I have to touch that joint committee that was uncomfortable, and it was embarrassing to me if many experts listened to us, what discussions were on that committee, that, of course, we were counting on each other, who was more important, or architects that I respect very much, every day I want to learn something from them, or engineers from various and different fields. In short, we have two marriages that are extremely important. I would like to, but I call on everyone to help the Secretary of State, the Minister, the Director and all those who are trying to find further improvements in these weeks when the law is on these tables of the National Assembly. I have no reason to doubt that those improvements will not be introduced into these two laws, which are extremely important. In short, I would like to finally once, whether we're left or right, investors, if I start with those who build apartment houses, see, sometimes when in some local community you hear that when they take the UN or when they take initiatives from citizens and citizens, someone says, yes, see, because in that village you have 10 uncharted plots and someone is asking for a new plot. But look, for someone, it's irrelevant that they have 10 parcels in their possession that are unbuilt. But for one who asks for a small plot to build an apartment house for his family, it is extremely important. In short, this is where you find some balance in building housing. Of course, it is extremely important, as I have already said during my performance, to listen, to monitor the economics and to monitor their needs. I have also learned several times since the economist is in full condition, including financial, extremely good conditions for building, investing in the economy, we are hampering him with bureaucratic obstacles, but once he comes in another period, of course he no longer has these conditions, and we are still voicing, as I have said several times today, that someone will not give anything in Ljubljana. As a Member of this National Assembly, as President of the Infrastructure Committee, I will certainly take the initiative to get to know where the procedures are and who is responsible for what as soon as possible. For we are all paid, so in this national assembly, Members and Members, of course, all those who work in state institutions are also paid, so that we will no longer generally plead that something is not given, or that a greater city is to blame for the development of one part of Prekmurje, Goričko or anywhere else. That seems extremely important to me. But I would like to conclude, because I come from one environment, I must say that on our administrative unit of Slovenian Konjice, where I live, construction permits are issued very quickly. But our common task is to issue these building permits; if there are no conditions, then it is not the one who issues this building permit. Let me get this straight. Our common task is to create the conditions, in short, I am pleased, respected Secretary of State, that we have two quality laws ahead of us, plenty of time to add something more, in short, I would like our citizens and citizens to know that politics also sees things that have been bad in the past and are better. Even if we interfere with someone, it's a time, an extremely important time, and it's money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic. Get Rudy Bear ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you, President, for your word. Today we are considering two extremely important proposals for laws, the Construction Law and the Law on the regulation of space, which basically form the basis of building-space legislation. And at the outset, let me say that both proposals of the law also contain good solutions, but they are not all good. I will begin with Article 20 of the Space Regulation Act, which speaks of a conflict of public interest. Here it is correct to say that the law in force already knows a similar instrument, and in Article 19 we can find the concept of the predominance of public benefit. Simply put, when two public benefits or interests are hit, such as environmental protection and the promotion of economic development, which cannot be coordinated at the level of the public authorities, the decision-making process of the government and the decision is binding on all stakeholders. However, there is a fundamental change between the existing law and today's proposed law. Indeed, under the existing law, four conditions have to be cumulatively met for the use of the instrument of predominance of the public benefit. When it comes to urgent reasons and defined by law or other development or protection act, when there are no other professionally acceptable and appropriate solutions that would eliminate the dominance of one public benefit over another, when the intended effect of the public benefit, which prevails, when this effect is significantly greater than the adverse effects on the public benefit that has been overcome, and when the procedures for coordination of interests have been previously carried out. This proposal of yours today has substantially overturned these conditions when the government can decide on the conflict of public interest. You actually deleted three of the four conditions. In the new light, it will no longer be necessary for the reasons for the exercise of this public interest to be laid down by law, nor will there be any other professionally acceptable and appropriate solution that would eliminate one's predominance of one's interest over another and do not need to be carried out in advance of the process of harmonisation of interests. These provisions are deleted from your new proposal. And what does that mean in practice? It means that in all cases, when there is a conflict of interest between space regulators, this will be arbitrarily decided by the Government on the basis of a non-binding opinion of the Government's expert committee on spatial development. From experience, we know how much this government listens to professionally. Yesterday or before last night, you abolished the QR code for single-dose patients despite the opposition of the profession. It's true that you corrected the mistake. I think you've put the matter back in its original state today. And if we look at yours, it's a government move so far, as far as environmental protection is concerned. In the first anti-korona package, under the pretext of inherence to environmental protection organisations, you have made the procedures for cooperation or entry into authorisation procedures significantly difficult. The government coalition does not support the announcement of the climate crisis. Our proposal has already been rejected twice, and climate change has been pointed out by virtually all professions. However, if I recall the Water Act and those controversial plans on construction in water protection areas, on construction on the coastal belt, and in fact, the people in the referendum have made it very clear to you what they think. And in this new proposal, you have clearly stated that the interested public, which has an interest in environmental decision-making, is not or cannot be a party to the building permit process. So another move that leads to the degradation of some environmental standards. If I substantiate these statements with the opinion of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, let me mention that the Administrative Court only had two days to comment on your proposal. They say that “the exclusion of interested public or non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest as party participants in the process of issuing integrated licences is not in accordance with either the provisions of the Aarhus Convention or in accordance with Directive 2011/92”. In addition, the Court points out that the exclusion of the public concerned will lead to a significantly increased caseload in the Administrative Court. It also points out that the proposed deadline for a decision of three months is not feasible in today's law. So, it's an experience that reminds you that these hands are not feasible. In fact, it is a complex dispute, it will be necessary to convene the main hearings, it will be necessary to put in place the experts of the various professions. They also point out that this priority decision within three months in such disputes will result in discrimination against the other applicants who have already filed their actions and will wait even longer for a solution than now. They also point out that it will be necessary to employ an additional staff if this Article is to be adopted. When I looked at the assessment of the financial effects of the bill, the government did not anticipate any negative financial effects. So it is a visible way of doing things when you adopt such and different rules that your profession warns you that this is not okay. Your typical answer is that citizens or NGOs should make use of judicial remedies. We've known cases like this in the past. For example, fines handed down to citizens on the basis of unconstitutional decisions that leave them nothing but a path of justice. Or your recent attempt to introduce a verbal delinquency, where on Tuesday at the plenary session, a government representative stated that people who are ingrained should seek justice in court. Although we were able to hear the minister today when he stepped back and announced that non-governmental organisations could be foreign participants, I am quite frankly telling you that I do not believe you in terms of experience, given the day-to-day change in the position of this government. And if you had such a good purpose, why didn't you do it during the public hearing when both the experts and the NGOs warned you of this inconsistencies? And if I still go back to the Construction Act. The current Construction Law already knows buildings whose construction is possible without a building permit. These include so-called temporary facilities, these are usually facilities for seasonal events. The proposal for the new Construction Law also extends to, say, temporary storage facilities or assembly halls intended for storage of non-hazardous substances. These facilities may be placed in non-compliance with the spatial implementing act for a period of three years. And here I would also have a question for government representatives. Will in practice check the movements of installation facilities from neighbouring lands, impacts on neighbouring lands, the fulfilment of the fire safety of these facilities, and will there be a limitation on the size of these facilities? This is not defined in the law. Then you introduce the concept of reconstructing buildings without a building permit to reduce or to remedy the consequences of natural and other accidents and also do not require the production of any documentation, the participation of supervisors and so on. Of course, I understand the need for such interventions, but I am interested in how security and the technical relevance of these reconstructed facilities will be taken care of. As regards article 80 of the proposal of the Construction Law, which speaks of the fact that the condition for the use permit for one-bedroom buildings will not be carried out, we are talking about the facade of this building, and that it will be a condition that the investor, within five years of the issue of the usable permit of this packaging or facade, will carry out this exercise, to say that I understand the intention of the applicant to divide the financial burden of the investor into a longer period of time, because, hand to heart, the construction of the facade represents a cost. However, it must be said that this solution is not exactly in line with some of the country's environmental objectives and, in my opinion, it is also not very economical for an investor. I'll tell you why. On average, a large flat house with no facade per year for heating the consumption of the circus or up to EUR 1 000 more energy than a residential building with a facade and if added to the cost of cooling in the summer, this higher cost for the investor will be up to or above EUR 2 000 and in five years, as long as this deferral condition lasts, an additional cost for the investor will be EUR 10 000, which is already the amount for which the investor could make a facade. My proposal to the Government, if it really wants to help these investors – usually for young families that do not actually have sufficient resources to complete these facilities one time – would propose an interest-free loan to this investor by the government or by some kind of guarantee. This would, in my view, be financially and environmentally more acceptable to the investor, but not least for the country. However, I have also looked at the penalties in case an investor in five years of this envelope is called a facade, does not implement and there is no sanctions, which means that this is actually a blank standard in the law. The Minister was recently in our parliamentary group, in the LMŠ Group, at the presentation of the proposals for both laws and stated there that the proposal for amendments to the municipal contribution was in line with the municipalities. We have received or recently received written comments from both the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, and in fact oppose this new arrangement, so that I would still ask for information if something has changed in the meantime if the representatives of the municipalities actually support such a solution. I will also touch upon the obligation to conduct project competitions. So far, this obligation has been established in the event that the investment value in the new construction of the public facility exceeds EUR 2 and a half million or when the spatial act provided for it. According to the new article, this article is being amended in such a way that the execution of the project competition is no longer necessary unless the government or the congregation so decides. In fact, there is no reasoned explanation in the official explanation of the bill's proposal, so I would ask why you are actually terminating this obligation, and you are withdrawing this obligation after the public hearing has been concluded. Nevertheless, I believe that in these public competitions the choice of solutions or the palette of solutions is very broad and the chosen solution depends on a number of factors, including the extent to which local, regional, architectural specialities include solutions, and yet this is also an opportunity for young, unestablished architects. Expand the competence of municipal inspectors, who are expected to further exercise control over the construction of non-requisitional facilities. To my knowledge, this was not in line with the representatives of the municipalities. The municipalities point to the human resources, the professional malnutrition of inspectors, and this bill does not provide for any additional financial resources to increase the staffing of inspection services in the municipalities. Today, however, I received another call or very specific question from experts on the subject of minor deviations from the building permit. In fact, this new law does not allow horizontal movement of the object more than one metre in all directions. Experts point out that this condition is particularly acute in cases where construction of some line facilities, motorways, power lines is likely to be inadequate, because in practice this will mean that the route planned will be inadequate and the investor will want to delay the route by more than one metre to go back into the process of changing the building permit, obtaining a new construction permit. So I would suggest to the Ministry in good faith that you check to see if these warnings are on the spot. As far as I know, I kind of think they are. I have listed some of the essential issues, perhaps inconsistencies, in my opinion. I believe there are still a number of areas where improvements to both laws are possible. I also believe or hope that the ministry will listen to today's debates, today's warnings, and that in the second reading it will only propose some amendments, some changes. In view of the fact that today is the first time that the law is possible to continue to be amended, I will not object to this law. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has Rudy Bear, prepare for Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. There are a number of system laws in which all governments are in trouble as soon as the term of office or during the term of office is reached. The Public Procurement Act is one of them and the Construction Law is one of them. Of course, I am convinced that no government has so far had a bad intention to amend such legislation, especially because our objective is to speed up procedures, speed up procedures, speed up procedures, and to speed up procedures, at least in these cases which I have mentioned. That is why I believe that this law was also made in good faith and purpose. It is good that it is a new law that has not been reopened into the amendment of the law, because look, we are actually in construction legislation all the time during a transitional period. From one to another, we are now practically almost in the transitional period and it is right to cut this off, and that once things are put on a new footing, of course, as follows, I get experience from the past. As regards the procedures for building legislation, of course, the fundamental question is how to speed up the procedure for obtaining a building permit. It's the foundation of everything. Here, interestingly, urban myth has been developed that, while the legislation is relatively fine, that everyone concerned is also relatively fine and well respected. That officer in the administrative unit, he's guilty, and he's guilty. And over and over and over again it appears with a finger on it, so in fact, they're almost criminalized, so that they're in the administrative units obstructing and obstructing these procedures. Today we have heard some of these alarming numbers about what the average time to obtain a building permit is. I think it's been said for about 170 days that there's even an average of 270 days on some administration unit, if I'm not mistaken. Yes, it can be even more than 270 days, certainly much more, depending on what we consider in this period or when this deadline for obtaining a building permit begins to run. Whether it is from the moment an investor sees an object in a dream and decides the next morning to make it happen, whether it begins to run that period or begins to run that period when the investor designates an authorised designer, to initiate procedures for obtaining a building permit, or whether that is the time limit when the application for a building permit is complete. All these three things can legitimately be cited as a time limit for obtaining a building permit, but in fact, for the administration itself, it is essential when this role is complete. Of course, there are disagreements here, or problems: who is to blame, why is to blame, and why is a matter going on so long? On the one hand, if the application is complete, if it is appropriate that this deadline for the issue of a building permit is possible – and it is also often, and I can tell you from experience, because I have participated as the director of the municipal administration in many projects when we obtained a building permit – it can also be significantly shorter than 30 days. Substantially less than 30 days if this role is complete. Here now comes the responsibility of the investor and the responsible designer. This is something that is so readily forgotten in this process, so gladly forgotten. In practice, however, it happens that in many, many cases, in fact, the fault is on the part of the investor and the authorised designer, because they simply knowingly, even consciously, pass on incomplete roles to administrative units. It is true that they themselves find it difficult to find themselves in the flood of various sub-laws and regulations supporting the Construction Law. See, some are still from the time of the SFRJ and there are still rules in force. The whole forest is these rules. Then we don't really know what we're going to do in the construction process, and we're going to protect a little agricultural land and a little Natura 2000, a little water. Then the whole mountain is an exception, so it is virtually impossible to get through this many times and that the government in this area is actually a mess. I believe that investors or designers find this difficult to find. But it is their responsibility to make a full application to the administrative unit to obtain a building permit. And that's their responsibility, and it's not on an official, on an administrative unit, to look for a wide variety of opinions for them. The clerk's just following what the law requires him to do. Believe that there is absolutely no reason for me to delay now, and I think that there is a rather malicious claim today by one of my colleagues that they are deliberately delaying on some administrative unit in order to then achieve some standards with administrative procedures and then they are more like the Ministry of Public Administration. I mean, this one's really drawn behind the ears. You know, things like this happen in practice, of course, in the relationship between an investor and a designer. The designer will promise the investor that virtually anything is possible and that things can be done very quickly. The investor usually pressures the designer to do so as quickly as possible and, of course, to obtain a building permit as quickly as possible. There are few cases where buildings are designed even on land, which is precisely known that the municipal spatial plan does not allow such construction, but this is happening. Or an example, I am banalising, but this is really happening in everyday life when the designer knows that, for example, he will have to get the consent of the neighbouring owner, which may be problematic, but still puts an incomplete role on the administrative unit. And, of course, when he finds out that it's incomplete and what needs to be complemented, usually designers explain to the investor that they've complicated things on administrative units. Believe me, I don't know how much you've talked to the heads of administrative units or officials working directly on the issue of building permits in the drafting of this law. They would tell you a lot more of these stories that show a lot of irresponsibleness for investors and designers when they apply for a building permit. Sometimes it is also a matter of incompetence or ignorance, but sometimes it is a matter of pressure. But, you know, the official at the end of the day has to go after the list that all the papers, according to the local word, are necessary to issue a building permit and nothing can be made up, no things can be made up: and now this, and now this. What is required in the set of documents is that the administrative unit must come. And I'm not saying they're harmless. Perhaps there is an official who may not be in love with him. But to deliberately delay such matters, it is unjust and casts a shadow at the end of all the officials. I know it's hard to write down in law that project documentation has to be good. It's hard to get into a marriage. When is the project documentation good? That she has to be perfect is normal anyway. Of course, it happens in so many cases that these applications are so poorly submitted that there is then this calvary of obtaining still different documentation and thus prolonging the process. But when we talk about the process of issuing a building permit from the moment this role is complete, I guarantee you, I know the data from the administrative units and they are sometimes surprisingly fast, and it is right that the public knows that a construction permit can be issued relatively quickly. If I do a little caricature, I'll do it overnight. I know that when we were doing European projects and we were being chased by deadlines for obtaining European funds, how we could relatively quickly get a building permit, of course assuming that investors, including designers, did our part of the task as needed, and put into the process a role on which such a building permit could then be issued very quickly. Whether this law will fully help to speed up or not these procedures, in particular in the documentation preparation phase, is likely to be difficult to say at this time. The minister says yes, the minister says that some administrative obstacles will also be removed. One colleague Paulič mentioned before me about these permitted derogations, the movements of objects on a particular plot. I may mention another such one, or we may call it a bureaucratic obstacle at this point, which the profession does not really know exactly what this new concept of a collective plan means, that they do not know it, that they do not know it from what the law makes. I'm curious about one more thing, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, we suspended the implementation of the e-building in 2024. Given that, as far as I know, the infrastructure for the introduction of e-building is actually more or less in order, it is a shame that this is delayed in the future. That's too bad. Of course, I would expect more ambition to happen as soon as possible. In particular, because of your design in the BIM environment, it is extremely difficult to design, namely, the planning of protocol facilities, diplomatic, consular representations, sports and cultural facilities, and at first the public debate was optional, i.e. classical or planning in the BIM environment, and then you made it mandatory just before the law was passed. It is indeed a very complex technical and professional very difficult work, which in the end really serves in 3D technology with all possible information about the individual object, but it is very difficult to get there. As far as I know, this technology is not very widespread in Slovenia. I may have the wrong information, but I believe you are able to make only two companies in Slovenia at the moment to make a plan that is complex in the BIM environment. Maybe it's just that, I have such information, and that if it's mandatory for them to come to their account after the adoption of the law, contractors from abroad will not be able to do so. So, on the one hand, we are very quick with this difficult technology, which may not be home enough in Slovenia, and on the other hand, we are delaying this digitisation, if we call it building permit. However, since it may be that if I conclude certain delays in the issuance of building permits, although I do not know at this point whether this is a pressing problem or not, some administrative units are more burdensome, others are less, it would be a solution and I do not know if anyone has thought about it whether it is mandatory or necessary for local authority to issue a building permit. In view of the possibilities offered by modern technology, given that all municipal regulations are public, of course the municipal spatial plans are also public, that some administrative units already cover more than 10 municipalities in a very wide area, so that it might be considered that conditional or in certain cases they may be able to resolve the problem of backlogs in the issuance of building permits, this obligation of local competence may also be mitigated. This could be a contribution to coming home, if I say so myself, to zero in building permits. As mentioned in the LMŠ today, we will not object to this proposal after the first reading, given that it fully solves many things even in a relatively appropriate manner. However, we will also prepare our own set of amendments, and I hope that then, in one fruitful debate on the committee, on the relevant parliamentary committee, we will find consensus in even better solutions to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare for Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u64	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, Members of Parliament, distinguished Secretary of State! Today we have spatial and building legislation, two new laws, completely new, which contain so many changes and additions, if I say so, that it was necessary to make new laws, which are some additions to the laws that are currently in force. Who and why does he need these two new marriages? In particular, young people, the economy, agriculture, local communities, municipalities, investors, designers; in short, almost everyone. Why this new legislation is being adopted, we have already heard in the opening statement from the Minister of Magi. The visionary and in the present debate, which I must say, has been quite constructive with some exceptions, especially with regard to the experiment, if we now dispute the architects a little and the construction engineers, which is of course also attempted by the party Levica with that extraordinary meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, and at the end of this extraordinary session only Levika voted in favour of her conclusions. I don't think they have much support in the National Assembly. I think it has been a while since we tried to continue this spectre among experts, whom, of course, I greatly appreciate. Why do we need to upgrade these laws, make them new? So that the procedures for obtaining from building permits to placing them into space will be more efficient, faster, more transparent and because we are also going in the direction of digitisation, which means that we will introduce slowly or as quickly as possible, and also in some foreseeable time, everything necessary for the digital operation of this e-building, e-space and so on. So the new legislation creates conditions, better conditions and seeks balance, and this has already been said a lot. I think it's kind of the last time that we're going to step in time, step in with the developed world, step in with a developed Europe, so we don't twirl on the spot. There was also something already said about municipal spatial plans, about the speed of obtaining construction permits, it should be further recalled that Slovenia is currently in the 119th place of the world scale on the process of dealing with construction permits, and this is also one way to move our country higher on the world scale. This will also enable the Republic of Slovenia to be more competitive and more interesting for investors. Of course, since we are in 119th place, investors prefer to move elsewhere, so we should not be surprised if we lack investors. We have also heard in the debates that there are many times in obtaining permits and thus the problem of an incomplete role, I agree, but these imperfect roles are probably a problem all over the world, so this does not change the fact that we are therefore in 119th place. I believe that with these new laws, as far as space and construction are concerned, we will move quickly on this scale from this 119th place to higher places, just as we have moved on the charts to the highest places after unemployment, where we have the least employees in Europe, after the highest gross social product in Europe. And these are the very good things, and I believe we're going to take this road fast. Of course, problems are not just municipal spatial plans, and then problems arise in national spatial plans. Then it happens that this acquisition of permits or consent, additions are transferred from hand to hand by various bureaucrats, from the office to written, of course, some then also justify their jobs, and that is why some fundamental changes need to be made here. These two marriages are going this way. It happens, too, that I asked the minister the question at the beginning of the September meeting that businesses, the economy, quickly need room to expand their production, need storage spaces as well. There's no time for us to wait here and look at each other, but to complete our roles, and to place them in your hands. These are very, very important things. I see it at the end of my life, where I want to spread, and I can't, and there's a bear waiting and asking. I believe it will be easy, as will Kovicor. These are huge companies that have a lot of employees, and I want to work, and here they need to jump in and help. Therefore, legislation, the basis, the legal basis, of course, must also be appropriate, since otherwise nothing can be done. Many of you have also mentioned the area itself, the state of emergency, as far as degraded areas are concerned. I believe that these degraded areas, as they have now stood, will also be rehabilitated. It is now necessary to correct the writings to the environment, to the nature that has been with us in the former country for years, and it costs a great deal, and we must not forget that. We can't or I can't hear from some people's mouth, and I've heard this one about my notions, populism today. What was it, how are we supposed to fix this now? First you do the damage, then, of course, you have to do it. It seems to me that it is completely inappropriate for us to talk about such things under such legislation at all. As regards the fact that the Ministry has somehow found agreement with non-governmental, environmental and environmental organisations. I've noticed that some people even have a little bit of it in their noses. Don't worry, that's right, and it's right to find a common language. Of course, it's not always going to be the way they thought it would be, but I feel like they're talking to each other, and we're talking, and we're going to go look for solutions together. I believe that the two laws that are pending public debate and also many debates here in the National Assembly will be supplemented by some or some amendments already announced, including participation in the proceedings of NGOs, and so on, that we will then jointly confirm these things, including both laws. And that all the opinions, the comments that will come at this time of public debate and even at the hearing itself in the National Assembly, will also be taken into account in the majority. We also know and have also heard that the ministry or the minister who prepared these two laws has also spoken extensively with the economy, the local communities, and the municipalities, as I have already mentioned, also with NGOs, so these two laws are already well prepared and somehow coordinated so that they will no longer have to waste much time seeing the light of the world. Perhaps it is just that, as far as the process of obtaining building permits is concerned, the implementation of projects or the preparation of projects for implementation and so on, is very different across different administrative units or municipalities. In some municipalities these things are going quickly, but after others more slowly and I believe that even those municipalities that have not yet adopted the municipal spatial plans that are still waiting for them, and also those that accept the additions or amendments to the municipal spatial plans, will be easier, faster and more effective to approach and implement all these procedures themselves, and that those municipalities that already have everything arranged, namely, the municipal spatial plans, and somehow have these procedures already implemented, already know exactly what must be done to ensure that those municipalities that are a little bit backward can somehow get closer or see that they can, and will be trained in Slovenia. That's essential, that's all that matters. As far as payment is concerned. These things in this marriage, we have heard, are really huge, huge, and all these changes are somehow written on the skin of investors; that is to say all those who want to build or all those who somehow interfere in space, one way or another. Payment of a municipal contribution – of course each of them can have a different opinion, but it is essential that when young people start building a house, make their own nest, of course they usually also take credit, which must now be said to be quite beneficial. As I can see, young people are building quite a lot, and if you want to obtain a building loan, of course you need to show a building permit when granting a loan. This means that under the present law a municipal contribution must also be paid. That is why I feel that this change is yet to be welcomed, and then a lot of families will be able to include money to pay for the municipal contribution in the loan itself. These municipal contributions are, of course, very different from the congregation to the congregation. In some congregations, they are very tall; in others, they are much lower. Here too, for example, those who have a lower municipal contribution are more friendly and investors prefer to build in such congregations. To conclude slowly, of course, it is necessary to actually review the complex law and also advise that all citizens and citizens read it, look and see that it is useful for all and that there are essentially no things that a person could say that something should be put on his head and this set of state rules governing the space and the state order, which is urgently needed to refresh, and that there is no comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact, and that participants in the regulation of the space, the mandatory professional basis for regulating the space, the regional spatial plan, if I just summarize some of the key titles, the topics that are in this law, but the flexible and effective state spatial planning process, and the upgrading of the municipal spatial planning system, which I have mentioned before, and the reconstruction of the land policy, and the building plots of buildings, you will also see that things are very clearly written and precisely as the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia do. [[…]] Perhaps monitoring the state of space and the spatial information system – this is also an interesting topic – and the implementation of interventions into space, the notification of interventions to space, inspection at the end of the ends and measures, and criminal provisions. Here, too, it seems good to me that somehow we are also burdening only an inspection which should deal with the things that must be done, but here also a medo-Chinese inspectorate can come to the aid, and for those simple objects they may have jurisdiction here also to inspect the Medo-Chinese inspectorate. So I think that somehow we will come together and also the biggest complication that has ever occurred – and I hope that now these passions have calmed down – in the case of project managers or project managers, whether it will be engineers or architects, that we will come to a common language, that we will respect both professions and that it is necessary to know that both professions will definitely have to cooperate with hand in hand. But who will be the one in charge of a particular project, and investors will decide and so on. Here are very important the very characteristics of this man, not everyone for all, because you can't impose something on an architect, in the end he realizes that he's not exactly fit, but he's able to keep all this coordination between all these professions and then sometimes he's an architect now under this law, and then he's basically getting the plentiful sheets from a construction engineer. Let them decide for themselves who will be the project manager. It must be said, however, that both professions are equally and in no way, we must no longer afford to pursue politics here and even be able to go in this direction in order for a political party or construction engineers or architects to use themselves to dominate someone else. If we already have equality and solidarity written in the constitution, but if we are always full of mouths, even some of us, solidarity and all of us are the same and so on, let us do the same here in this area, and the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole and everything will go well forward in this Slovenia, which with this government promises it many, many more beautiful times than it has been before, which we can see every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kepa, to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted by both secretaries, colleagues, colleagues! These two laws that we are adopting today, the Construction Law and the Law on Spatial Planning, are very important. As has been said, there have been more than 100 experts here, so the matter has already been filtered quite a bit. They worked together from the administrative unit, architects, construction workers, from the municipality, the Chamber of Commerce and others. However, this is only the first reading, so that the matter will be complemented by comments, good comments and, for the second reading, the case will be even more exposed to the good of construction. I will also touch on the municipal contribution to change, so that with the building permit there will not be municipal contributions, but with the start of construction. In the meantime, it will allow the investor to obtain additional funds. This is the case for young families that can also obtain some more credit on the bank before the project for execution, which is stronger, much stronger than the building permit, here is the calculation in the project for execution, static calculation, mechanical, electrical installations, various laboratories, fire, thermal transitions and other laboratories. Of course, it is also now possible to help younger families to make community contributions in the congregation. Some congregations still have this in mind with some subsidies, some additional motivation for younger families: some have families at their age, some have, or have for the first time, a building. This will continue to be the responsibility of the congregations and will continue to be self-accounted for, and these possibilities of exemption or subsidies will continue to be available to them. However, they are usually forgiven for any companies that apply, or sports associations, or disabled persons, or firefighters for some construction, new construction, and usually in the municipal world, by their request, this is also usually possible and forgiven for this part. I too will touch the previous committee, which we had together with culture, infrastructure, these two committees together. It was the wish to show that architects with this law were deprived of something, which is not true. It goes back only to constructionists who were three and a half years ago deprived of this authority for authorized engineers or project managers, and it all went to architects, which is not right. This has been the case in the past, which is now in marriage, years ago, and the decade has been that way. Some of the builders had been authorized for decades, if not longer, at least they already had this, but now three and a half years ago they were completely taken away. The situation in the field was very, no, very bad. Some construction engineers have closed down businesses because they were themselves employed or were two and under the new law, this is the one that is still in force, they had to hire an architect to even act as nonsense. I wonder if it would be the other way around if the architects had to hire a construction man to act on what their reaction would be. Which is unnecessary, and I think the matter is going back to the way it was, as it was here. Here I do not think there is much room for any compromise, as it is written here in this proposal in the law, and it is right that both have the same powers, that where there is much of the construction work, the builders, or where there is more electricity, are also electrical engineers or mechanical engineers, where there is a more visual matter, but they are architects, and so on, they are almost everywhere. Here I would have touched on the Construction Law, which is still an improvement in the Construction Law, and I would have counted them a few. This is the possibility of obtaining a building permit after a reduced procedure within 30 days, municipalities will issue one document combining location information and a certificate of intended use, now these are two documents individually. Establishment of business in electronic form, e-building. Well, here's the supplement that just in the case of location information, in the case of the municipal contribution it will now be a transitional period of two or three years until this is established and the state of accounting for the municipal contribution will be after the old one in this transitional period until this electronic form is applied. Introduces the possibility of carrying out treatment by means of audio-video techniques, municipal inspections may exercise control over unsolicited objects themselves, do not need any regional inspection. In the event of the removal of objects that touch or are one metre away from adjacent facilities, we are again required to obtain a building permit. In order to facilitate the authorisation of facilities built before 1. 1. 2005. Establishes the legal fiction of the issued usable permit for all one-bedroom buildings constructed in accordance with the building permit before 1. 8. 2018 and shall be duly recorded. The administrative authorities will have to take into account the opinions of the competent authorities and organisations acting as opinionators in the procedure in the procedures for issuing the building permit. The new proposal of the Construction Law regulates the procedure concerning the postponement of enforcement following a decision of the Constitutional Court, so-called the right to respect at home. This is said to be the only thing in which the family resides, cannot be broken down and cannot be taken away from them the only place in which they are, even though they are illegally built. It would also touch on the Law on the regulation of premises, the main points: upgrading the procedure for planning spatial arrangements of State importance in principle all in one place and in one procedure from planning to authorisation, upgrading the process of preparation of the municipal spatial plan as a basic spatial act of the municipality with a view to its more effective treatment, upgrading spatial strategic planning at regional level and spatial planning at sea, upgrading the local inspection institute as a flexible instrument for allowing interventions to the premises of individual settlements, derogations from spatial acts and temporary use of space, updating land policy measures to achieve better utilization of space, development of building sites and management of buildings, and upgrading rules for determining the recording of construction plots. I hope that the second reading will improve further, and we will accept this matter without problems. I'll support this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State is no longer present. When we adopt these two laws, we necessarily run in two cases. One thing is – all my life, from the 27th year forward, I was involved in investment and finance as director and we invested from the first headquarters in Celje to the first small airport, when we placed it in a space that became international, until the renovation of hotels, the first underground garage house on the coast and so on. I've always met, and I have to say, I've always literally cursed things because some things were at the municipal level, some in the republic, some on the federal level. And before you made it through, it was really hard work. But I must say that we must all respect – so now this law is going in the direction of facilitating these procedures, which I welcome in substance. It goes in the direction of facilitating these procedures, making them more transparent and easier. On the other hand, we must be aware that any placement in space is a difficult task and reach out to many interests and many real things that are very important to life, to say, from these objects to what they will look like, with which people are dealing, so we meet the object-man, object-nava and tradition here. But if we look on the other side, what I know about this matter, I know practically little about the world and almost the whole of Europe, because I spent 50 years in the air as a sports pilot, as a sailing pilot for the world's European championships, and I also had the opportunity to observe how the landscape is changing; and especially in Slovenia, because I know it practically to the last corner and I have watched it. You know, throughout all this life, for over half a century, I've watched how the working land disappears, how with the new congregations that were formed before, how the individual's buildings spread to the best land, to the best land in the Savina Valley, the most fertile. Even in the Upper Saxon Valley, we can do this How widespread are some hamsters that have nothing to do with connection. [[…]] I mean, it's not saving the landscape, it's not saving the farmland, that's not it. If I look from the air, there's actually another situation that's been changing all the time from bad to worse. I am so absolutely in favour of this precise and well-placed space. Even if you don't. For example, the worst thing I've ever seen from the air is Poland. And there, in her past, they built three blocks in the middle of a village with a church in the middle of two more towers, and you've got a lot of it. It is now also working in Croatia when they have released some restrictions. And if you see those who walk along the coast, and somewhere else, there you see that impossible objects have grown. On Krk I looked, some villages were there like Cizici and so on and the towers grew there. This pressure to earn something, to sell holiday apartments, has crippled many, many areas. Thus, we must have these limitations, and I think that different actors must have an impact on these limitations and on how we intervene into space. We need to keep looking at this thing from side to side. On the other hand, I repeat, this law, or a set of these two laws, facilitates certain procedures where you can so turn around that you don't know what's out there. There are procedures. I think this law saves a lot of people like me from investing, and I get to know these rules and what I've been doing, and I welcome it. I myself believe that there is quite a bit of room for manoeuvre in this law, as my predecessors have also pointed out that we can improve it. But we must not go beyond some steps to allow very narrow interests to destroy, further destabilize the landscape, the processing land, and build hamlets where we do not have the necessary infrastructure and then have to pull electricity, and roads, and third, fourth. So I'd say let's be very careful about this job. I also welcome the fact that we did not force any short-term action. I think we've had a debate so far in this National Assembly, what I know, for a long time, pretty constructively on the left and on the right, if I say so myself, and let's try to keep this style going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Messengers and Members! In the debate so far on both laws, much has been said, and perhaps the one that does not fit in this law. The main purpose of the proposalr, the government, is to approach people with the proposed law. In the Law on the regulation of space itself, it is intended to link the state, regional, local level in the area of spatial planning, the equipping of building plots and the management of real estate. Now because of the number of valid forms of spatial plans at the state and municipal level, we can say, confusion. The proposed law fundamentally changes the combined procedure for State spatial planning and the issue of a comprehensive permit, including the building permit of facilities with specific environmental impacts. The law itself also takes account of climate change, as the principle of sustainable space management is complemented and spatial arrangements need to be planned in a way that is climate-safe and neutral. The law itself also provides for a comprehensive regulation of the area of spatial regulation, a clear and transparent system of spatial acts, the upgrading of spatial and strategic planning at regional level and planning at sea as well, the establishment of project management in state spatial planning through more active cooperation between land managers, the upgrading of the UNP preparation process as a basic spatial act of the municipality with a view to its more efficient use, the modernisation of land policy measures with a view to better exploiting space, the development of building sites and the management of municipalities with building sites, the possibility of altering dedicated use by modifying the OPPN and many other objectives with a view to demobilising procedures and digitising procedures and processes. The proposal for a law on space regulation itself makes it possible to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and brings several directives into the Slovenian legal order and the proposal for a law is consistent with them. As for the proposal of the Construction Law, this brings quite some news. There will be no need to obtain a building permit for the work of the reconstruction, but skilled experts will have to participate, and it will also be necessary to file an application at the start of the construction. But once we've destroyed an object that touches adjacent objects, we'll need a building permit. In the meantime, it is easier and cheaper to obtain a user-friendly permit for one-bedroom houses, and it is also possible to legalise only individual parts of the facility. Among other things, the Constitutional Court's decision on infringements of the right to respect at home will be taken into account and some amendments and innovations will be introduced in order to make the procedures simpler and faster. According to the proposal, the payment of the municipal contribution will no longer be conditional on the issue of the building permit. This obligation is expected to be fulfilled before the start of the construction, and this provision will apply once the e-building system is in place. The solutions provided by this law, however, are: the possibility of obtaining a building permit after a reduced finding procedure within 30 days in accordance with the ZUP and their treatment via the State Cloud e-space and e-building. As a novelty, under certain conditions the possibility of using materials and products that have already been used follows the principles of a sustainable and circular economy. Companies will be able to place temporary storage facilities in their yard for a period of up to three years and, if necessary, to obtain parallel building permits. This also goes against the economy. It is easier to obtain a permit for longer-lasting objects. These are buildings that were built before 1 January 2005. It is expected to be faster and cheaper, easier to obtain a user-friendly permit for one-bedroom buildings, one-bedroom houses, as it is sufficient to make a statement by the authorising officer and there is no need to provide proof of reliability. The Law itself also brings relief to the congregations. For all these reasons, I think the laws are good and I will support them in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good bye to all of you! I must admit for myself, like most of the debaters so far, that I like it very much, despite the fact that it is the first debate, for a very substantive and highly reasoned debate on these two laws, which I like very much. In short, we go from populism back to content. Given that I have been in the National Assembly for quite some time, and I also remember those years 2004-2008, when certain changes were taking place in the area of the Construction Act, the Law on Spatial Planning, and, last but not least, the Law on Spatial Planning, I like that we are again receiving not two novelties, but two very systemic laws, not just two systems, two very important laws. Maybe just for the start of one mecca. As a professional associate I was in coalition coordination, I think that in 2007, when the Law on the Regulation of the Space was amended, in addition to the Minister who was preparing the law in good faith, three or four officials were sitting by the then departmental ministry, and one of the promises was that within one year of the adoption of this law all the municipalities would have spatial plans. More than Members, after all, professional colleagues have asked exactly where the predictions are in this law, so that they will be established, and we have listened more to the assertion that there is no problem; the law makes it possible; we will do so. And then years and years passed, and I think there are still congregations that don't even have a municipal spatial plan, and other municipalities are already touching the novels of municipal spatial plans in the second or third attempt. Even as a congregation counselor, we have met almost every meeting since 2006 with points that touch on these two laws that we have before us today. In short, I would like to start by saying that when I read not only this introductory principle and principal solution, I touched very carefully the articles of the law themselves. It is from this very point of view that we do not promise our citizens too much about what will happen, and then we will make excuses for it, but we did not know how to read the individual provisions of the articles. That's why I like it very much, because the articles written in both of these laws are very selectively placed. You know exactly who, what, how, and why and when he has to do something. In short, it will be possible for politicians not only to show what we have accepted, but also that we, or in this house, will be able to have a legislative working body, but in particular in the ministries of the field, by law, to give precise instructions as to how they should present matters to their citizens in administrative or municipal proceedings. So we don't get too many underlaws, because the law itself is well written. And first, I'm going to touch the law on space regulation. As it is said, I am the fourth councillor of the municipality, and I must say that as a SDS councillor, we have long appealed to the former, including the current mayor, to adopt the municipal spatial plan as soon as possible. Each other meeting one of us councillors asked what was going on, and every two months about the same answer was that things were at the Ministry. And after six months, and one year, and always the same and the same answers. Then we requested a meeting with these people who are writing answers about how nothing has changed in two months. And, of course, nothing has changed, because in individual ministries it has happened, and unfortunately, it still happens that officials refer first to unclear rules, and then to unclear powers, who is responsible for something. And they went ping-pong within individual ministries, they went ping-pong inside the ministries and they went ping-pongs inside the lower organs or even some agencies or other state institutions, who did something, who did something, who didn't do something, why the Water Directorate didn't do something, why the Roads Directorate didn't do something, sometimes we had problems with the railway; we always had one and the same answer, how something could not be done, or it would take a very long time for something to happen. And so almost a decade ago, we received a municipal spatial plan in the municipality of Sevnica. And what was the conclusion when this municipal spatial plan was adopted? That it goes straight to the novelty of this municipal spatial plan, because the environment is a living space that not only humans but other subjects are trying to organize somehow by sight or by thinking about what they would do. But the OPN is not even the main issue as regards municipal spatial matters. In our first municipal spatial plan, when we thought we had done a great thing, and that we had only reached the municipal spatial plan, we soon saw in practice, to which some of us warned that on each side of the OPN, there was also an OPPN shortcut, the Municipal Detailed Spatial Plan. In short, when there was a desire for something to happen, we almost turned the cycle — not in the entire congregation’s territory, but in the smaller part. At times, however, it was a rather small area that should be either agricultural or commercial or residential, or perhaps even sometimes regulated in accordance with national spatial legislation. And we had the same cycles again. When, say, some OPPN for a certain business zone, a smaller one, received and received and took a year and went two years and the investors left. And a detailed spatial plan for the neighborhood was adopted, and one year, two years, three years, and young investors left. So I really hope that when I read this law, I remember not only my role as a congregation counselor but also my own crosses and problems when I made up my mind or when my wife and I decide that we will try to build a house. When we found a place in this congregation, we convinced even the owners that they had sold the land, we ran into an OPPN shortcut. It wasn't any other problem. The problem was the excruciating wait. And it was waiting, and it was waiting, and the documents were coming to the congregation, one after the other, but the matter did not come to what was called the Construction Law or the legal building permit. And that is why I support in particular both the basic intentions of these two laws: one debirocratisation and the other digitisation. In short, there are two issues that this government is setting up in its priority light on important issues that cause people in different areas to suffer rather than cause them to be happy that something new is happening in their village, their place or their private property. The other thing about the Environmental Regulation Act is that it deals with a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. Not only at the state level, when national spatial plans are adopted, but also at the local level, when something is to be built, it comes from the Ministry: “a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is needed”. When you have at least half of it, what and how you would have, sometimes on purely banal occasions comes from an official and with what number, “a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is needed”. That is why I very much like it that, in this legislation on the regulation of space for the first time, the Act on the regulation of space for this work devotes itself to an important role, but that this role should be given at the beginning of all these procedures. Not that someone's already collecting funds together, and then surprise him with the CPVO he needs to do. I like that very much. As a second point, I very much welcome not only these introductory dictions, but mainly in the dictions of the articles when the Law on Space Regulation touches on the area of the municipal spatial plan and also later more detailed spatial plans. Yes, I am very sad, as it has been said today, that we do not have the provinces to deal more with these municipal spatial plans, or with regional plans, that this is still the role of the State, that an official at the Ministry of Ljubljana will determine whether a building in Slovenian Konjice, in Polzela or in Bosnia will have such a known, such and such influence, because some land cannot be residential and not agricultural and, finally, I am very strange, when even some residential plot cannot be turned back into an agricultural area in the UN. I so truly hope that all those who will build will happen as one of my younger colleagues told me yesterday after the meeting of the municipal council that you will be accepting such two laws 10 years later. Many of them have left the congregation of Sevnica, perhaps from another congregation. Unfortunately, I even know cases when abroad, because they waited too long to be creators of their development on their land. The last thing or the last thing I touch is the upgrade of the local inspection institute. I must say that at almost every meeting of the municipal council in the congregation from which I come, we have one such procedure, where within the UN, there is no way for an official to convince that a farmer, yesterday's case, besides his business space, would make a smaller building next to his own house. You can't! Obstinately, but one official said that note 1; it is not possible, even if you complete note 13, because I do not know what else is written. That municipalities as key agents of development now have the opportunity to say, "Dear civil servant in Ljubljana, come and look at us," and you will see how we did it with a location check. In short, I strongly support the fact that sometimes in the area of 100 or 200 square metres of such or different plots, these small trinkets can be arranged to the extent of the investor, or the owner, I prefer to say, and according to the measure of the municipality that listens to this owner, that he is on his land the creator of his future. As far as the municipal contribution is concerned. Yes, I come from a congregation where sometimes we have very interesting things in the municipal world, when, say, a residential area of a thousand square meters is worth 5,000 euros in municipal contributions, and one mile away you pay 36,000 euros in municipal contributions, and you have nothing up there yet. I say this from personal experience, and I did not have a road to the plot because it was not provided to me despite the adoption of the UN-36 000 euro municipal contribution. Now imagine young people, how many times we talk about housing, what we would already get for 36,000 euros in a place. In the municipality of Sevnica, it would be worth EUR 36,000 and a wardrobe there, ranging from 25 to 30 square metres. Something to start with. But here you pay 36,000 euros and you have nothing, unfortunately too often. That is why I really like the solution that is prepared in this law on order, when and how a municipal contribution is paid. And of course, after you've been paid a utility fee, you've got two maps waiting for you in the meantime called PZI and PGD. When you're doing a doctor's degree on how you're going to make a house, how you're going to make an apartment or something, and you're wondering how it's possible that we have so many procedures instead of having one very normal procedure. That is why I very much like the public promise, which is also clearly expressed in the dictates of the construction law itself, that the possibility of obtaining a building permit in a reduced procedure within 30 days should there be no problems. I am personally convinced that these problems will become less and less, not least because the legal basis for electronic transactions will soon be established. So that John will not have to go to the administrative unit or after a new congregation, sign there and get something else at each signature, which will have to be fulfilled when he has to go to the Elektro, the pipeline, in short, there is no institution that we have, for some matter, because it can run with known data very easily and very quickly. Last but not least, I like that this construction law touches on the subject that we have already proposed in the SDS Group, and then we have not received support as an opposition party, and I hope that this time we will get it as a coalition, and this is a question of usable permission. At the time, I was discussing that I did not understand how an official could decide not to grant a license to someone because someone did not have a facade. They said, "No, there is no use permit." Even if the four- or five-member family is cold in winter, it is more important to win, and it costs about 4,000, 5,000 euros – an example of my neighbor, if you don't believe. 4 to 5,000 euros and it's more of a key facade than, say, a winter break or a weed over the winter. That is why I very much like the fact that Minister Vizjak continues what he proposed at the time as a Member, and now as Minister of his colleagues Zvona Černač, that this issue of a license is being adequately addressed. I also like that this law also touches on the use permit not only for one-house houses, where one investor is usually, but also on the use permit for multi-house houses. And here's my behavior, according to my information, a lot of problems. For example, when many new houses of sorts were built, they were stuck in the use permit. In Slovenia there are whole streets of houses where people live because they cannot go elsewhere because they have paid for themselves because their houses as part of the kind of houses do not have a useful permit. And if I come back, we all know what it means if you don't have a valid permit: you shouldn't actually live in them. And these are stories not from decades ago, when it may have been a little bit more domestic, but I do know cases where houses, orderly houses have been built in the last three, five years, and people are still waiting for a license. No, it's not their fault or their inability to pay the license of use, nor is it their inability to go after the relevant papers, but it's the stuff on the other hand. We have in mind that at the Ministry of Affairs, we have from the fact that individual investors disappear overnight, and these new owners of these houses have no one to turn to to to give them their signature and their stamp. In short, let me finish. I am very pleased that two important segments of our society are being regulated, touching each individual, each congregation, probably also a variety of economic, agricultural and other entities, once again in one place. In short, we don't have a novelty for the novelty of these laws, but we do have new ones, sometimes it was a modern thing, and I'm a little embarrassed to say it, system laws. Above all, we have laws in line with the paradigm that we hear several times in this government: we have enough bureaucratic clones and if we are electronically literate, why not use it to get to a solution sooner. Finally, I believe that in the course of further consideration of this law we will also listen to different entities, one, the other, or some other chamber that will have their wishes. I believe that marriage will never be ideal for everyone, but it is better that it is not ideal for everyone, but that some want it only to be written by them. Last but not least, I like today's opening part of Minister Visiak, when he said that also with non-governmental organisations, there have been some important developments that we will make in the second and I believe in the third reading also through amendments to this law. In short, at first reading, great praise to the preparers and my “pro” for the Law on the Regulation of Space and my “for” for the new Construction Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word, and Ljubo Žnidar is the last to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to say that I am much more skeptical than my predecessors, who are members of the SDS, who is this current government. They are boasting of this insane success of Minister Vissiak. Now, two laws have been passed two years ago, and they have not even come into force well, because this current government of Janez Janša is bringing a new one, under the title of some kind of debarcation, and I would rather say that it is a deregulation as it is with many things. Interestingly, some agree on years and years, coordinate with stakeholders, with expertise and so on. Minister Visjak or this government is bombarding us with new and new laws and telling us how productive and nice they are. But the change in the Construction Law in the way that an engineer can be any professional project manager, no matter what profession he or she belongs to and what profession he or she has in the project, is very wrong. Let me stress once again that the law comes to the table when European billions come from recovery and development – and we know how this government treats them. We've heard before that the professions are equivalent; it's said when it comes to engineers and architects. I agree that the professions are equivalent. You're an equal surgeon and a lawyer, but you really won't go to a lawyer and have surgery. Construction managers can be all and construction engineers are absolutely privileged in this law, as smaller reconstructions are mostly the responsibility of exclusively construction engineers. But Minister Vizjak said quite a few big things. One is that all the treatments are equal, and I just explained that it's not true. Then he said the design manager was just the coordinator. What nonsense, what coordinator? The design manager must draw up a summary plan, the design manager is the only representative of the profession and his signature is the condition for the building permit. The design manager fully assumes responsibility for everything that happens. But we're avoiding responsibility here, but will you give the electrical engineer a chance to build a nursery for the children? Okay, we know Minister Vizjak is an electrical engineer, but that doesn't mean he can get to know everything. The project manager is the only one who can approve changes in the construction site and also partially assume the tasks of the administrative unit, as he can decide that the changes do not require a new building permit. The design manager shall then also decide on the inclusion of the other professions. So the design manager can rule out anyone, such as an architect. Mr Podkoršek said that the Secretary of State was an architect at the time of the formation of this law, which she did not. Mrs. Lydia Stebernak is a lawyer. Mr Doblekar advises that all citizens and citizens should see the law, but I would say that this is indeed a utopian requirement and a proposal, because 500 pages, through which we and our professional colleagues have made it quite difficult to break through, because there is a lot of fishing in mud and unclear indications. What worries me most is, in Article 40, the obligation to produce a project competition is recorded in such a way that it is not actually mandatory at all. The competition is compulsory if the municipal council or the government so decides. However, the municipalities and the ministry are thus, and so on, the only bidders in public competitions; that is, they decide whether or not they will command their own invitation to tender. Kadiya's suing you, Kadiya's suing you. Everything in this government is like that. But she's worried about something else. Professional issues such as competitions will be again decided by someone other than politics, government, arbitration and otherwise. One congregation will call for competitions and the other will not, then they will be able to share projects under the table, because everything is so imprecise, one ministry will call for competitions, the other will not call for them, they may choose projects at the lowest cost and so on. In short, such an important segment cannot really be covered by daily policy. The next problem is that it's a complete mix-up with project documentation. You're talking about digitization, de-de-irocracy all the time. We had a smoke in July, and we got Minister Andrijanic for digitisation. We haven't seen anything from him yet, but we've heard a whole bunch of flossules, and above all he's been explaining the things we already have. Now this law in Article 14 speaks of a summary plan and a summary display, then of a plan which is the basis for a summary plan, and of a picture which is the basis for a summary display. It also mentions other plans, such as a simple plan. I think so! Do you call it simplification or what? It is said that a summary plan, a summary display, a master plan, a guide chart, a plan that is the basis for a summary plan, a demonstration that is the basis for a summary view, a plan as a simple plan. I mean, tell me which citizen you're advising is going to get through this, because even an expert can't get through this. And how such an enormous increase in the number of all plans and such confusion that arises can lead to simplification and hastening of procedures. That's why I'm interested, but unfortunately there's no government representative if they have any simulation of how much longer the waiting will be due to all the nebulos listed here. Then the primary designer, versus the design manager. Article 14 of the Construction Law states that the designer must, in addition to the project manager, ensure cooperation, to quote, "an authorised expert who, in accordance with his professional duties under the law governing architectural and engineering activities, has drawn up a plan or presentation which is the basis for the production of a collection plan". Can you please explain? And as worried as possible, you know, it is also that Article 7 stipulates that minor reconstructions do not require a building permit. So, in the case of a stretching wall, the bearing wall is a fire wall. And watch out! As a result of fires in Slovenia, on average about 150 people are injured annually and die on average between 10 and 25. And why is it that only the opinion of the design expert, rather than the fire safety expert, is sufficient to break the walls that represent fire safety and separation. In short, it's obvious that these solutions are for preferring construction engineers, at the expense of fire safety engineers. Please let's get married together and seriously consider what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is Love Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! It is true, today a few more than six hours of this debate, which I have listened to quite well, and I must say that I am very pleased. Okay, let's leave the last discussion of Mrs Violeta Tomić, who I will not comment on, because this would offend the construction profession. However, I must say that the whole discussion was extremely constructive, extremely good and there was no objection to the proposal for a law to obtain a building permit and, of course, to environmental law. This is one proof that both documents, both proposals are well prepared, quality, of course are put into public debate and suggestions are still welcome. However, I would like to touch Mr Rajić's colleague, according to the architect's profession, I respect him, but his statement does not state that architects are now excluded as project managers. No, that's not true. That's not true. But they're placed on the same common denominator with the other engineering expertise. It is true, however, that in the present law, the existing law, architects have chosen too many pieces of cake. We also know how to do it. We also know the composition of the Engineering Chamber. Since engineers represent 60% of the membership, the Engineering Chamber has six sections and engineers are always over-elected, although they have a large majority. It is said that this was a disproportionate situation, and in fact, the sections voted by way of voting over too many pieces of cakes in the current legislation. With this law, we are equally placed in the same position and no architects are excluded, all have the opportunity to cover their expertise and so is the case. In my introductory presentation, I also discussed administrative units, which in Slovenia are very different in terms of treatment or at what time from the application to the issue of the building permit they carry out their work. However, it is not always the fault of investors or those who make an application, but in my opinion it is true that some administrative units are more occupied, some less and I see no reason why the administrative unit would have local jurisdiction after the municipality now assesses compliance with the municipal spatial act. Now they can issue a building permit, in my opinion, issued by any administrative unit, but this is, let's leave, this is the next step, which, of course, will also need to be considered that somehow administrative units will be evenly distributed or burdened with roles such as these and other ones. So I can see that both documents have majority support, and I am very pleased, because we know that now, after a year, we somehow know that the first conjuncture has been there from 2006 to 2009, that now this investment conjuncture is returning, that Slovenia is at a great upturn in the investment cycle and construction legislation must not be a time bar in the development of our country. This must be accepted immediately and, of course, against those who want to invest and follow modern trends in development, of course, even in Slovenia, which is part of the developed world in this part of Europe. Of course, I look forward to the support of both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. There are no government representatives anymore. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Yeah.]] Then I'll start the application. Please report to anyone who wants to discuss. As the last one, my friend Marko Bandelli has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm going to be extremely brief, because I can see that I'm alone, and I can see that there's no interest in that anymore. As I have already said in my position; we, in the party SAB, do not see great complications in this law. In fact, welcome marriage, solves a lot of problems, simplifies a lot of things. So I think it's not here, as far as this is concerned, at least for the first reading, so we'll confirm that as far as it's concerned. But there are a few things I thought I'd be able to tell the Ministry's stakeholders, but they're not. There's no one, not even the secretary of state, that's too bad he's not here, but I'll tell you a few things anyway. There were a lot of them in here, and before the debate, mention was made of the accounting of the municipal contribution. In this regard, I must say that these are constant problems, I think there are large and excessive differences in the calculation of municipal contributions from the congregation to the congregation. Otherwise, it is optional of the congregation, since the congregation can correct this matter with all the factors and by correcting the Devil rather than repairing any good times for the people, correcting what is good for the congregations. That's a big problem, and here we could do something to limit a little of that. In the light of that. Why? The huge infrastructure is built with European funds and when they are built with European funds, it is not invested by the municipality, the municipality has invested only in part, it is said that this infrastructure should be amortised if it is said that this is also the cost of depreciation, what we are paying as a municipal contribution should be lower, stronger, even fired in the first years, because certain investments made by European funds that are not to be accounted for. This is one question that I propose, in particular to the President who is here, from the committee or you who are on the government side, to open this question to see what can be done here at all. Because it's good for people, it's not good I mean, the congregation has to look for its revenues, but here are the European funds in between, here should be treated in a different way. [[…]] That's very clear. One thing that bothers me very much, and I have made a proposal several times before; we are the only country in Europe where building permits are issued by an administrative unit. One administrative unit also manages four, five municipalities and more. Each municipality has its own UNO, has its own spatial plan and in such a case the procedures are long, because those two who work inside this administrative unit, which are responsible for issuing building permits, have to review every time all the documentation that is different from each other. And here is a proposal that should be in the process of de-de-barcation – too bad that there is no proposal in it, as far as this is concerned, that the building permits should be issued by the congregation, as is the case throughout the world. The municipality is preparing municipal spatial plans and the municipality is issuing building permits, not an administrative unit. Time is no longer so much for other things, spatial planning, problems with the expansion of building plots. We know for ourselves what the problems are here, why the parcels don't spread. I don't have time to tell you what the problems are, especially with the Ministry of Agriculture many times, because it doesn't leave and doesn't allow. The problem is always that of the wally factor that the congregation has, which is inconspicuous and often this unburied plot are the courtyards and so, especially in Crassus, as far as this is concerned, and then that factor comes too high and we do not have construction plots available, but today there is no time for it. As far as Nature 2000 is concerned, at Natura 2000, we see exactly what it is and in certain municipalities, we are also talking about 90 percent of the Natura 2000 areas and there are limits. Ten, fifteen years ago, it was promised that the area where Natura 2000 was to benefit from it in a different way. There's nothing to do with that! No one tells the ministries what you can get in return for being limited. Because if you have one limit, you have to get something somewhere else. And here's the thing. To conclude with regard to the cadastral, the cadastral maps should be digitized as soon as possible. Too bad there are no ministers here, even if there are others not crossing well, we always have problems because the maps are still in analogue form and we still have thousands of 440 and two thousand 880. So there's gonna have to be something done here on the cadastral as well. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposals for conclusions that the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate agenda items 23 and 24. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of the proposal for a declaration of support for international efforts to prevent the death of autonomous weapons systems. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by Member Sam Bevk for consideration by the assembly. The proposal for a declaration shall be held at the 15th session of 2. 9. 2021 treated the Defence Committee as a parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a declaration after the discussion, the second consideration of the proposal for a declaration was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, then prepare New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u80	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Declaration is an act of the National Assembly expressing a general position on certain issues of internal and foreign policy and other matters of national importance. It is precisely the proposal for a declaration of support for efforts to ban internationally deadly autonomous weapons systems that would express a position on the issue of the use and development of lethal autonomous weapons systems in the future. Unfortunately, the coalition did not recognise the importance of this declaration document and was blindly following the government opinion. For the Government considers that the complete prohibition of these systems is not meaningful and it would be more useful to reach consensus in the use and development and to adopt principles on the responsible use of new technologies for defence purposes, including those systems. The Government considers that, only with the principle of political will, the express opposition could lead to a subordinate position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to defence capabilities and to the creation of a priority position for potential future opponents. Ladies and gentlemen, with the support of the document, which unfortunately ends today's parliamentary debate, we are also working for the Social Democrats to ban the deadly autonomous weapons systems – if you wish, at global level – but somewhere has to be started. It began in the European Parliament by adopting a European Parliament Resolution of 12 September 2018 on autonomous arms systems. Also taking into account the statements of the International Committee of the Red Cross and the initiatives of civil society, which brings together 70 organisations in 30 countries in a campaign to stop killer robots. In this spirit of principles contained in the said European resolution, the declaration submitted by the President of the Defence Committee, Sam Bevk, has also been declared. The resolution of the European Parliament and the proposal for a declaration submitted define autonomous arms systems as armed systems over which man does not have reasonable control over critical functions. The functioning of autonomous systems without reasonable human control, of course, raises a number of new ethical issues related to humanitarian law and human rights. We will face a completely new way of potentially future fighting, whose potential dimensions are very difficult to imagine at this moment. The development of technologies that already exist and are still developing in the civil environment is relatively easy to use for military purposes. The artificial intelligence that began to develop in the second half of the previous century penetrated into all periods of social life in the 21st century, including military spheres where they recognized its potential in all areas of warfare. Its flourish coincides to a large extent with the rapid development of lethal autonomous weapons systems. Many scientists point to the danger of so - called killer robots and devices, such as drones and robots designed for warfare. They also pointed out that the development of deadly weapons systems would lead to a third world revolution in the way they fought. The war will take place more quickly and on a much worse scale than ever. If the gun’s autonomy trend continues, the decision-making process will eventually be eliminated, as the artificial intelligence will be the one who will make decisions about who will live and who will die. Respectable, it is necessary to distinguish between autonomous weapons systems and lethal weapons systems. While the use of the first ones can thus be useful, the use of others, such as robots to kill people, is totally unacceptable. It is precisely this unacceptable development of robots to kill people that should be supported today at the declaration level in Slovenia and tomorrow in the wider international space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence and others have been active since 2017 in the field of content related to killing or killing autonomous arms systems. Since then, the various bodies and bodies of the Republic of Slovenia have been engaged in discussions in various multilateral forums held within the framework of the European Union, the United Nations and NATO, where ethical, legal, operational, moral, technological aspects are discussed in connection with autonomous arms systems. The proponent of the declaration of support for efforts to ban internationally deadly autonomous weapons systems wants to consider, at national level, the imposition of measures against the risks posed by the development, production and use of such weapons systems. Christian Democrats also place human dignity and freedom at the centre of digital age. We believe that, especially in the field of artificial intelligence, the highest ethical standards must be respected. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence presented to the Committee the position of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in his statements on the subject of murdering autonomous weapons systems, emphasises and advocates, inter alia, the preservation of human control over artificial intelligence through the possibility of human intervention in all phases of operations or the use of murderous autonomous weapons systems and the adoption of common international views on limiting the development and use of such systems, i.e. systems without human control and decision-making. The new Slovenia considers that the total ban on killing autonomous weapons systems at national level is irrelevant. However, a broader international consensus should be reached on the responsible use and development of new technologies for defence purposes. We agree with the Government's assessment that in the absence of a common regulation only in principle, with the political will expressed, opposition could lead to a subordinate position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to defence options and to the creation of a priority position for potential future opponents. In New Slovenia, we are aware of the importance and breadth of weapons problems and therefore such international instruments can only be effective with the support of a sufficient number of countries, especially the global joys that develop and use such weapons. For all the reasons listed in the proposal for a declaration on the Defence Committee, we have not supported it, but in the future we will support any serious international instrument that will address the very serious issue of deadly autonomous weapons globally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! A declaration on support for efforts to ban internationally deadly autonomous weapons systems was submitted to the National Assembly by Member Samo Bevk. In it, he proposed that the Republic of Slovenia support all efforts so far to ban internationally deadly autonomous weapons with everything that joins the efforts of the international community, a global campaign to conclude a legally binding international instrument to prohibit the development of the production and use of lethal autonomous arms systems. In the SAB Group, we believe that the functioning of autonomous systems without reasonable human control, of course, raises a number of new ethical issues related to humanitarian law and human rights. It is a completely new way of potentially future fighting, whose potential dimension is at this moment very difficult to imagine. It is also about the development of technologies that already exist and are already developing in the civil environment and are relatively easy to use for military purposes. Many scientists have repeatedly warned of the danger of so - called killer robots or devices, such as drones and robots designed for warfare. Scientists also point out that the development of deadly weapons systems will lead to a third world revolution in the way of fighting, as war will take place more quickly and to a far greater extent than ever before. If the trend of autonomous weapons continues, the decision-making process will eventually be eliminated, as the artificial intelligence will be the one who will make decisions about who will live and who will die. For example, South Korea already has an army of robots patrolling the North Korean border. It is Samsung's machine gun model, which is currently managed by people via video connection, but it can also switch to automatic fighting. Many countries, publicly funded companies as well as private companies, are already exploring and developing lethal autonomous weapon systems ranging from missiles capable of selecting targets to machine learning systems with cognitive capabilities. The use of lethal systems raises fundamental ethical and legal concerns about human control, in particular with all essential functions such as the choice of goals and attacks on them. The use of lethal systems also raises key issues regarding the implementation of international human rights law, international humanitarian law and European standards. In the SAB Group, it is important to prevent the use of any lethal autonomous weapons systems without human control over key functions, such as the choice of objectives and the attack on them. In the SAB Group, we supported the proposal for a declaration on the parent body. However, in the absence of sufficient support from all Members, consideration of the proposal for a declaration on the home labour body has been completed. We believe that deadly autonomous weapons systems are something we don't want. It is important not only to regulate and restrict their use but to prohibit it in its entirety. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia has been active for many years in the field of content related to lethal autonomous arms systems. He participates in discussions at various multilateral forums within the framework of the United Nations, the European Union and also within the NATO Union, where ethical and legal and operational and technological aspects related to the deadly autonomous arms systems are discussed. In addition to the process under way in the European Union, where a European Parliament Resolution on Autonomous Arms Systems was adopted in 2018 and where joint statements of the European Union are being prepared for the topic, representatives of the Republic of Slovenia regularly attend meetings of a group of governmental experts on the field of killings of autonomous systems held within the framework of the United Nations Organization, as well as regular meetings within the framework of the Convention on the Prohibition of Certain Conventional Weapons. The resolution of the European Parliament and the proposal for a declaration submitted define autonomous arms systems as armed systems over which man does not have reasonable control over critical functions. The functioning of autonomous systems without human control, of course, raises a number of new ethical questions about the implementation of international human rights law, international humanitarian law and European standards. It is a completely new way of potentially future fighting, whose potential dimension is at this moment very difficult to imagine. It is also about the development of technologies that already exist and are still developing in the civil environment, and it is relatively easy to use them for military purposes as well. Many scientists have repeatedly warned of the danger of so - called killer robots or devices, such as drones and robots designed for warfare. It is also pointed out that the development of deadly weapons systems will lead to the next global revolution in the way of fighting, as the war will take place faster and to a far worse extent than it has ever been. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are therefore committed to maintaining human control over artificial intelligence through possible human intervention in all phases of the operation and use of autonomous weapons systems. We are also committed to adopting common international views on limiting the development and use of such systems, i.e. systems without reasonable human control and decision-making, as our country has so far sought. We further assess that it is appropriate to reach a broader international consensus in the use, development and adoption of the principles of responsible use of new technologies for defence purposes. We therefore call for the adoption of a special international convention at world level or at the level of the United Nations. Otherwise, we believe that, in the absence of common international restrictions and regulations, the principle opposition of our country to these systems could lead to a subordinate position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to defence capabilities and to the creation of a priority position for possible future opponents. Therefore, unilateral steps that anyone could take against Slovenia and its security are wisely maintained. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are therefore convinced that such international instruments, such as a total ban on autonomous arms systems, should be adopted at global level, as they can only be effective with the support of a sufficient number of countries, as well as with the support of the global superpowers and multinationals who develop and use such weapons, of course, because it is realistically seen in the absence or non-removal of these key actors, almost impossible to achieve any significant progress or step forward towards an international ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems and consequently in the direction of ensuring a more secure life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a declaration has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 23.) SEPTEMBER 2021 AT 16.01.)
