ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 83rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Jerca Korče, Andrej Černigoj, Ferenc Horváth, Dr. Franz Runczek, just Bevk from 15 o'clock on, Soniboy Prince, mag. Marko Koprivc, Nik Prebil and Victory Jelinčič Noble. I invited President Janša and Minister of Finance of Mags to the meeting. Mr Andrej Širclja at the 1st item of the agenda and other representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 83rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 5 October 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 83rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Procedural proposal before moving to point one. Comrade Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u2	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the LMŠ, I announce the obstruction of today's item and thus the meetings. In a democratic society that we are defending in the LMŠ, one of the possibilities of protesting against the Prime Minister and the government, which is violating the rule of law and violating the reputation abroad, is also the obstruction of today's speech by the Prime Minister. With today's boycott of the Prime Minister's speech, those governments that have for a year and a half failed to respect the constitution, laws, professions, courts and even people, and the epidemic is just an excuse to demolish democratic postulates, to create a country of their own accord, to build some new normality, which is unacceptable to us in the LMŠ, we will not be at today's meeting. Thus, with a democratic tool, which is also an obstruction, we will clearly demonstrate our disagreement with the destruction of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han. Procedural, I suppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u4	Dear President, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that in this country we do not live in a parallel world and that we all hear the same thing and we all see the same thing. I've been in the National Assembly with you for the past four years, and with some of you for much longer. If we admit it or not, we have never had the conditions we have in Slovenia today. [[advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, no No, no, I'm sorry not so good, ladies and gentlemen, but so bad, so worrying, but unfortunately in the last days too dangerous. [[…]] Therefore, no graphs will help us to grow economically. Outside, behind the walls of the National Assembly, behind guard fences is fear among people. There is a lot of disappointment and anger among people over the situation in this country. The government, with the Prime Minister at the helm, bears the most responsibility. And, my dears, the individuals and the calculating parties that make it possible for this government to exist. Dear Prime Minister Janez Janša, there has been too much. There were unconstitutional decisions, there was disrespect for the courts, there were non-professional decisions, there was poor management of the epidemic, there was too much disrespect for communication, and as many of the legal bases as you have, you did not take into account in the case of the STA. It is right to step down and allow people to go to elections to enable the normalization of this country. The Group of Social Democrats will obstruct today's budget session. We will not obstruct the budget because the budget is not an issue for us. On the contrary, because it is one of the more important documents on which it depends most in this country, what kind of country will we live in in the future, how our citizens and citizens will live and what their social security will be. With obstruction, we would also like to call upon, personally, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, to call together to call on the government to resign. Because our citizens and citizens have been hostages of the political crisis for too long. Let us take this step and give citizens and citizens the hope that things will normalise in this country. And in the end, my dears, if we weren't responsible today, we'd be pulling this card out and not being negotiable. Thank you very much. Social Democrats are leaving the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. For the past two days, I have not been able to get rid of the impressions of the past Tuesday, the Tuesday in which the government, with the Prime Minister at the head, hosted the EU summit in Brdo, with them at breakfasts, lunches, dinners, while in the centre of Ljubljana, in broad daylight, the protestors who did not show even a little violence began to tear down the tear and flooded literally the centre of Ljubljana. They poisoned elderly people who walked the streets of Ljubljana, children who returned from schools and activities, and tourists. This government, of course, preferred to stay safely in its rooms on the Hill of foreign guests, while its own people were gassing. Clearly, people are on the verge that this government no longer has any support. Clearly, this government is no different from the violence we saw on Tuesday and with the force we have seen since its performance. Today, much gratitude is expected from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, much promotion of what this government has done and what will happen to the new budgets and budgetary frameworks. At the same time, people in this country do not know how to prepare for the heating season, because energy prices have literally risen to the sky, they do not know how to buy food in this country, because food is also abnormally irrigated and so on. This government is experiencing the media – today the 280th day of the loss of 80 employees of the Slovenian Press Agency – over various state institutions and finally over citizens and citizens and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a government, which can rule only with violence and violence, no longer has any legitimacy. Such a government in every normal country should stand down. That is why I am once again calling on the Minister of the Interior, who is directly responsible for Tuesday's violence, and on the Prime Minister, who coordinates this violence, to withdraw immediately and allow Slovenia to breathe and to go to early elections. We will not listen to your compliments today in the Group of the Left, so I predict the absence of all Members and Members from this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u8	Also in the SAB Group, as part of the united democratic opposition, we will use a business opportunity that allows us to use the possibility of obstruction as part of a democratic protest and we will obstruct today's meeting. We are obstructing it because the Prime Minister does not want to hear what we, the opposition, have been telling him for a long time when we want certain measures to be corrected, done better or changed. We are obstructing it because the Prime Minister and this government are not listening to the STA, which is now reminding us today that there is no payment, despite the fact that there is a basis for this in the law. The Prime Minister and your government do not listen to the Supreme Court, which points out that payment is necessary, regardless of the legal basis, on other grounds. You don't listen to the Supreme Court, you don't listen to the Administrative Court, you don't listen to Commissioner Jourova, who warns about the STA, about the Delegated Prosecutors, but you don't particularly listen to people who, despite being given so many rights and so much money, are not satisfied. They are not satisfied with the direction our country is going and with the direction our democracy is going. Therefore, before we talk here about the future, the policies that this country is supposed to follow, you need to settle matters in the present, calm the situation and put Slovenia back on track.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We're moving on to one. Agenda item 2022-2023, the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2022 and the draft budget of the Republic for the year 2023. We are moving to the first part of the reading and adoption of the Draft Amendment of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the budget memorandum 2022-2023: Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Janša to present these budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u10	Dear High Council! Like everything else, budget policy has adapted during the pandemic to the emerging situation, by providing funding to protect the health of the population, namely vaccines, vaccination, testing, health care, protective equipment, which we are still doing, and unfortunately we will have to do some more time to provide support to the economy and the population to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. Now it is probably not necessary to list again all the measures we have taken. With such an adjustment, the government has made it possible to relatively quickly recover the economy and the Slovenian economy will in fact exceed the pre-crisis level of 2019 in this year, and some sectors will go beyond that level to a significant extent or already have. For 2021, according to the autumn forecast of Umarja, 6.1% of economic growth is forecast. Good dynamics will continue in the coming year with almost 5% economic growth, and almost 3.5% of gross domestic product growth is expected in 2023. Economic recovery remains differentiated by activity. In production and construction activities and services related to these two activities, the 2019 level of activity will mostly be achieved or, as I said earlier, even exceeded this year. After last year's fall of 4.2 per cent activity, recovery of activities involved in international trade continues this year, here leading processing and transport and logistics. Investments in equipment and machinery and imports and exports continue to grow significantly. Recovery will continue over the next two years. Problems with the supply of materials and related price pressures are expected to calm down according to all forecasts of domestic European and global institutions. Let's hope they hold it. It is envisaged that, in particular in the coming year, certain protective measures concerning the pandemic will unfortunately continue to be present and will limit the full recovery of certain activities. I'm sure there are some tourist activities. Restrictions on travel or at least some tightenings in this area are not yet seen. Employment is increasing again. In the next two years, favourable movements will continue, and in Slovenia, demographic trends will also lead to ever-increasing restrictions on the availability of labour. Recovery in the labour market is expected to continue over the next two years. We expect that the number of employees will increase by around 30 000 in the light of the pre-crisis year, but the negative demographic trends already mentioned are moving towards measures related to demographics, which we are increasingly putting at the forefront of because there is no other solution. Development-oriented budgetary policies will also contribute significantly to growth over the next two years by supporting economic recovery and resilience from both domestic and European Union sources. The economic and budgetary policy web will focus on the withdrawal of temporary measures to deal with the consequences of the epidemic and the implementation of structural measures that will be supported by investments in key areas. As it is said, the preparation of the budgets itself for the next two years is supported by the autumn forecast of Umar. These and other indicators show a significant improvement in trends in the areas of international employment exchange for service activities as well as private consumption. The preparation of budgets also takes into account the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides for exceptional circumstances in which a derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances is made possible for the purposes of the epidemic. This means that in assessing the fiscal situation, expenditure directly or indirectly linked to the control of the epidemic shall be dealt with under the general derogation clause and permitted to derogate from fiscal rules. Also at European Union level, there is a broad consensus among Member States that fiscal policy should continue to promote recovery in the years 2022 and 2023. To this end, and because of all the uncertainties in the development of the pandemic and the social and economic consequences, the European Commission has thus determined that the general derogation clause in force last year is also valid for the following year. The revenue of the state budget for the coming years is looking at the adopted budget by 7%. For 2023, a 3.3% increase in revenue is expected, mainly at the expense of higher tax revenues and the funds received from the European Union budget. The projections show that already this year we have exceeded the level of pre-crisis tax revenues from 2019, which is one of the best results in the euro area and the European Union. The expenditure of the state budget is projected at €13.9 billion in the coming year and €13.4 billion in the next year. As a result of the expected recovery and the gradual withdrawal of the temporary measures related to the epidemic, expenditure is therefore falling, although incomes are increasing, as the expenditure associated with the epidemic is decreasing while investment is increasing. As a result, the State budget balance will be improved partly due to the expected growth in revenue, as well as the impact of measures and investments on the expenditure side. In particular, investments will strengthen economic activity and consumption. The deficit of the state budget following the cash flow is thus estimated at 4.6% of GDP in the coming year and at 2.7% below the Maastricht level of GDP in 2023. In the context of budgets, as already mentioned, EU resources also play an important role. Thus, only funds from the recovery and budget resilience mechanism amount to more than €330 million in 2022 and more than €453 million in 2023. In 2021, according to recent estimates by the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, the country's debt ratio of almost 24 percentage points of GDP will be lower than on average in the euro area. This is almost a quarter lower than the euro area average, to which we are always compared. This means that Slovenia has increased its debt ratio to GDP by less than the average of countries in the euro area and by less than the average of the European Union as a whole in a period of acute epidemiological conditions. Unlike what is constantly occurring in the public, where wrong percentages and wrong numbers are mentioned. Investment and investment transfers constitute an essential development component of the budget. It says something that has practically been gone in the past decade. Next year and 2023 will be more than €2 billion. These €2 billion investment transfers or investments per year are probably also the main reason for the so-insidious and so-insidious opposition who wants to overthrow the government less than a year before the elections. If we look at where these funds have gone over the past years, especially for a variety of activities of different kinds, I will say that the militias of certain political structures or so-called non-governmental organisations from Metelkova 6, of which there has never been anything, at this time no one can list one single contribution, so it is likely that every year the draft budget is €2 billion for schools, kindergartens and everything else that the Slovenians need is a reason for us to adjust to accept this important document. Special mention should be made of investment in Slovenian health care between these investment transfers and investments. For the next ten years, almost 2 billion are invested in these investments, and for the next two years, in 2022 and 2023, 200 million each year. In two years, this investment will involve more money than has been spent in the past decade. It is then worth mentioning significant investments in road and rail infrastructure, or improving transport connections, investments in flood management and flood security, drinking water supply, water separation and cleaning, and other investments in the water sector and environmental protection, investments in kindergartens and primary schools and sports infrastructure, which are larger than ever since 2008, also in aggregates, investment in culture, significant investments in science, digital connectivity, investment in the development and maintenance of common service and licensing infrastructure, which is one of the basic pillars of digital transformation. In the areas of labour, family and social policy implementation, we expect a significant decline in the unemployed as a result of improving the labour market situation, significantly higher investment in the home network programme for the elderly and ensuring the rights and development of the long-term care system. The budget for 2022 and 2023 thus provides for substantial resources for the construction, reconstruction or improvement of living conditions within at least ten units for older persons in a total capacity of over 600 beds. The scope of the pension allowance will increase annually with the provision of stable and lasting care for pensioners, with the emphasis being placed on the harmonisation of pensions once a year on the basis of the growth of the average monthly gross salary and the average increase in the price of living needs in Slovenia, as identified and published by the Statistical Office. Payment of the annual allowance will be made in five classes and in slightly higher amounts than this year. The draft budget for 2022 takes into account the harmonisation of pensions and other benefits of 4%, i.e. around EUR 236 million in money. The defence expenditure for the following year is planned at 1,3 % of gross domestic product and for 2023 at 1,41 % of gross domestic product. An agreement on the average for 2022, which we have reached with all associations of local communities, unanimously and raises the average for next year to €645 and €647 for 2023, is also intended to balance the development of municipalities, to co-finance national communities, to co-finance municipalities with a permanent Roma community and the Triglav peoples park or local communities in which the Triglav Nations park lies. Dear Members and Members! In front of you are optimistic development budgets with investments that this country has never before had in its history, with resources that are fairly distributed throughout the country, across all sectors, with funds that also provide a social and sustainable component and development that is also geared towards the well-being of future generations. Your vote for these two budgets is a guarantee that the next two years will actually be years of rapid growth, including years of greater resilience and a significant increase in the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, mags. Andrei Širclja for further presentation of the budget memorandum 2022 - 2023, Draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The budget for 2022 was prepared in special times, during covid and at a time when it was not really known how long the epidemic would take. The correction of the budget for 2022, or the revision of the budget for 2022, reflects the actual situation, the situation in force until the third quarter of this year and therefore requires certain corrections. The budget for 2023 is based on the economic and financial framework, taking into account both global and European trends in development on the one hand and also the policies we have put in place in this national assembly and in this government. As already mentioned, economic growth is forecast to be 6.1% in 2021, which will continue in 2022 and 2023. As a result of this point of view, there is also higher tax revenue, higher revenues. As already mentioned, revenues will increase, with the emphasis that all three main sources of income will increase, both by 8.5% in 2022, by 5.6% and by 10%. In other words, such a policy also reflects full employment when it comes to the fact that income is charged primarily from wages or is the main source of that salary. This means, of course, that the measures adopted in the nine specific anti-epidemic laws have succeeded and that the economic rejection is great, that the economic rejection is positive, especially when compared with other countries of the European Union and the Eurosystem. On the other hand, we still have an encouraging fiscal policy. It is encouraging in particular because this policy is primarily directed towards increasing aggregate demand and that it is in fact the State or the public sector that makes the investment. In this regard, we have also received positive assessments mainly with regard to the role of the public or state sector by the International Monetary Fund, which found that if we invest 1% of GDP, we have a result of 1.3 or up to 1.6% of GDP. We are, of course, talking about the efficient use of money in investing. This was calculated or predicted by the International Monetary Fund, which in other words means that when the crisis occurs when demand declines, a country with a more active investment policy will emerge, which will also encourage private capital for greater investment, and this is actually happening. Expenditure will also be higher in 2022 and slightly lower in 2023, focusing mainly on investments. The calculation is also made that, if there were no investments, there would be an estimated 200 million deficit in 2022. In short, this deficit would be significantly lower, more than ten times lower if there were no investment, given only current consumption. However, despite this, after the cash flow, the deficit also decreases in 2022 from the estimated 7.9% deficit in 2021 to 4.6% in 2022 and 2.7% in 2023. If we looked at the ESA methodology, the trend is similar. In the area of deficit, we are going in the direction of reduction, we are going in the direction of equivalency of income and expenditure, and we are going in the later stages of achieving over-expenditure over-expenditure over-expenditure over-expenditure over the coming years. This is, of course, possible mainly because exceptional circumstances still apply today, the so-called withdrawal statement at the level of the European Union as a whole has been adopted, meaning in other words that the so-called fiscal rules do not apply. If we are talking about investment and if we are talking about the role of the country, then we must also assess that in the coming years, in 2023 and even as early as 2024, the role of the State will also be reduced in terms of investment, and we expect investment or the role of private capital to increase. Such investments mean something else for the coming years. They mean that the added value will increase, which is particularly positive. It is envisaged that the value added in 2022 will increase by 12.1% on average in 2020 and that the value added in 2021 will increase by 7.1% in 2020. This also shows the quality of investments, shows investments that bring higher added value, which, as a result, also generate higher incomes for employees and which also generate greater profits for businesses. In this respect, of course, we also hope and want the environment to be such that companies will devote some of the profits or most of the profits to additional investments and thus to additional economic growth, as well as to additional employment opportunities, with employment still projected to increase in 2022 at 1.5% and in 2023 at 1.2%, while allowing me to draw attention to structural problems in the labour market, where on the one hand we have a great demand for certain jobs that are not available today. If we look at the financial part, or if we look at the debt, then this debt will decrease significantly in terms of GDP by about 1 percentage point per year, so that in 2024 it will be less than 75% of GDP. This year it is 79.5%. I apologize, this year's public debt is 78.5%, in 2022 77.5%, in 2023 it is expected to be 76% and in 2024 less than 75%. This means, in other words, that this debt, for the first time, is effective in order to reduce debt in relation to gross social product as already found in the International Monetary Fund analysis and, on the other hand, to reduce debt in absolute amounts. Here I can ensure that the debt repayment plan is such that more than one third of the debt will be repaid after ten years, which means that the debt repayment risk is lower. On the other hand, I must say here that Slovenia has significantly improved ratings and ratings in all international markets over the past period. In other words, as you know, we issued a 60-year bond, we issued a 10-year bond at a negative rate. Here I must say that when the European Commission committed itself a few months later, this interest rate was not negative. Thus, from this perspective, all Slovenian credit rating agencies also rank Slovenia as a healthy economy, a healthy financial system and, above all, a stable financial system. They also provide us with a stable future, because it always means part of the assessment. From this point of view, I can also say that stability is ensured in the banking system. The Slovenian banking system is one of the reasons for favourable assessments in financial markets. In the last seven months of this year, profits have also increased significantly in the banking and financial system. In the banking system, poor loans are relatively low, delays in payments are decreasing, meaning in other words that banks are healthy and can transport both the economy and the population in any way. The balance sheet amount of banks is increasing, the economy's lending is increasing by 1.2% over the last period, households by 3.2%. As I have already mentioned, the proportion of non-performing claims is low, which in other words means that banks are stable. In 2022 funds for recovery and removal or reduction of funds for the epidemic are expected to increase. This means that the budget for 2022 and 2023 provides that the risks will not be such that the State should intervene in any way in the economic sector. Of course, this does not exclude risks. The greatest risk for economic growth, for favourable economic growth, for full employment, for the well-being of people, for optimism is the unwillingness of people to vaccinate and consequently spread the virus, as well as certain mutations. On the other hand, I can also say that greater human interdisciplination will ensure greater economic growth, greater optimism, greater satisfaction and greater human well-being. Such a risk exists and the risk depends in some way on health or whether the epidemic is spreading or not. Finally, I would like to say that according to the Institutes, Economics, Financial Institutions, the measures taken by the government last year to keep businesses, to have full employment or to a very high level of employment, have led to the fact that economic growth has not fallen by some estimates for an additional 4 percentage points of gross social product. This means, in other words, that the measures have produced some positive result. Such measures are unique in most countries, so to speak, very difficult to repeat. For this reason, I am once again alerting to the risk and at the same time to the prevention of this risk. With this in Slovenia, we will retain the continuity of economic growth, full employment and also greater human well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-83.ana.u13	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the budget memorandum 2022-2023, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. I thank the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for his presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Draft Amendments to the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and to the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. Members and Members of Parliament, Members of the Parliament and interested working bodies may make amendments to the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 no later than three days before the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft amending budget will be considered, and may submit amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023, to the Parliaments and Members, Members of the Parliament and interested working bodies, up to and including 18 October 2021. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 83rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
