ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Predrag Baković by 12 p.m. and Dr. Franz Ducky. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 6th A-point of the agenda – the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Institutions, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me start by mentioning that the bill before you, as well as the Law on prudential supervision of investment firms, is being transposed into the Slovenian legal order by Directive 2019/2034 on prudential supervision of investment firms. Unlike the ZBNIP proposal, which aims only to transpose Directive 2019/2034 into the Slovenian legal order, this proposal passes on three other EU directives in addition to that Directive. Let me describe each of them briefly. The transposition of Directive 2019/2034 will, as already mentioned, regulate the rules on capital, liquidity and risk management for investment firms together with the ZBNIP. At present, investment firms are subject to the same rules as banks and the new regime seeks to lay down rules that take account of the specificities of investment firms. The transposition of Directive 2019/2177 will further strengthen the quality of data on trade and data processing and provision, including cross-border processing. This will provide precise data on the trading of investors and competent authorities. Regulation 2020/1503 laid down uniform requirements which do not apply to the provision of mass financing services for the organisation and the provision of permits to providers of mass financing services and their supervision, for the operation of a mass financing platform, as well as for transparency requirements and market communications relating to the provision of mass financing services in the European Union, the so-called English crowdfunding. In order to ensure the legal safety of persons falling within the scope of that Regulation, the amendment to the ZTFI-1 under Directive 2020/1504 shall ensure that situations in order to ensure that the same activity should be subject to multiple authorisations are avoided and therefore, providers of mass financing services authorised under Regulation 2020/1503 are exempted from the scope of the ZTFI-1. Directive 2021/338 was adopted as a response to the covid-19 pandemic, within the framework of the capital market recovery package. The general objective of this Directive is to remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers and introduce carefully measured measures that are considered effective in mitigating economic shocks. This reduces, for example, information on fees and costs to be provided to professional investors and introduces an electronic way of communicating information to investors, the paper form will still be available to small investors at the request of access. The proposal ZTFI-1B also regulates the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/815 as regards regulatory and technical standards for the establishment of a uniform electronic reporting format. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. For the purpose of ensuring that the obligations set out in that Regulation can be adequately monitored and, in particular, that appropriate supervisory measures can be applied where their compliance is not ensured, the obligation to provide a uniform electronic format for annual reports has been included in the ZTFI-1. The obligations of the management of the public company and the audit tasks in this regard were also laid down. The ZTFI-1B proposal also includes changes to the ZBan-3 reference. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government proposes that the third consideration of the proposal of the ZTFI-1B be held at this meeting. President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 60th urgent meeting on 10 July 2021, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC, namely Article 18 of the bill, and by the LMŠ Group, Article 18 of the bill. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that a proposal for a law on the law is introducing Directive 2019/2034 into the Slovenian legal order, as well as three other directives. He further presented key solutions to be achieved through the transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order, namely the rules on capital, liquidity and risk management for investment firms, strengthening the quality of data on trade and the processing and provision of data, including those where cross-border treatment is concerned. The possibility of multiple authorisations for the same activity and certain other administrative and bureaucratic obstacles is also being eliminated. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that the comments made in this opinion by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were largely overturned, including a comment made on the amendment of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments relating to the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. The representative of the Securities Market Agency explained that the Agency had actively cooperated and supported the proposal. In a short discussion on Article 91 and the two amendments tabled to this Article, it was pointed out that it was necessary to ensure the professional competence of the person who runs the Securities Market Agency, followed by both amendments tabled. In addition, support was expressed for the amendment of the Coalition's members to Article 91, as the amendment mainly follows the actual and not merely formal qualifications of candidates for the Director of the Agency. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 18 and adopted all amendments. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the 91st Article of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Good day to all present, especially to the representatives of the government! For international global capital, national countries are only a means to achieve one more objective, and that is even more capital. However, national countries and their peoples may also be an obstacle to global corporations; the obstacle to which they must come, irrespective of the harm that the nations will suffer. We have always fought in the SNS for the well-being of our own people of Slovenians and their country of Slovenia, so we are certainly an obstacle in the eyes of global corporations. Therefore, it is necessary for your own nation to fight, no matter how many internal and external enemies you may be opposed to. We have been in the SNS since the very beginning against the European Union, whose aim is not to benefit indigenous peoples, but to gain influence. Obtaining influence on one side through politics and on the other side with certain global corporations through economics, which is water on the mill to certain elites and certainly not to the Slovenian people. Unfortunately, we are already at this point, when our economy is already fully involved in the Single Market economy. Our semi-producers are dependent on European markets, which together with us create a value chain that also contributes to the prosperity of our people, so it would be pointless to oppose in this point laws that make this related economy stronger, as they consequently strengthen our economy. Of course, it would be better for our nation to operate on more of its own products, strong brands and be much more economically independent. But now we are at the point where we need a stable fiscal policy in the European Union because of the fraud of our economy, unless we already have broader political and cultural foundations. For example, in this April alone, Slovenians exported more than €3 billion of the value of goods, which is more than 50% since last April, most of which went to countries within the common European market. The financial interconnectivity of Slovenia within the European Union is at least too important for Slovenia to play with the fiscal stability of the market on which we depend. On Saturday, we discussed three important financial laws on this subject. I am sorry that there was no one from the opposition on the committee – I am sorry, too, Mr Peček from the LMŠ party – which unfortunately gives additional proof that they do not care about something important, but that we cannot use it for our propaganda. As I mentioned, international global capital for national countries and their peoples is often harmful and exploitative and must be monitored as a matter of urgency. Also, in the currently intertwined economy within the European Union, this capital represents a double sword, as we are very much, as has already been said, economically dependent on it. In the Slovenian National Party, we support all the laws that will try to regulate this wild capitalism at least within the common market. The financial and mortgage crisis in 2008 also showed us that if we already have a common market, we also need a strong control over it, as deregulation can be fatal for the economy. The laws on the market in financial instruments, on prudential supervision of investment firms and mortgage and municipal bonds have addressed the issue of the uncontrolled common market well. It is right to harmonise and protect participants at EU level in financial markets and to set new prudential requirements and supervisory arrangements for investment firms. It is also important to encourage the capital market in Slovenia under the watchful eye of the regulator, as market capitalisation increased by more than €5 billion in one year. For example, credit institutions currently do not finance the issue of covered bonds, but they represent much safer investments and cheaper borrowing. As these laws, despite the acute criticism we have towards the European Union, are good for the Slovenian economy in our opinion, we will also support them in the Slovenian National Party. In fact, I gave a concise position of the Slovenian National Party for all three of these laws, so that I will not advertise in the following remaining positions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Very well greeted representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is another law that we have to deal with as a matter of urgency, unless we want to cause a great financial burden on the Republic of Slovenia. In May, June and August, the deadline for transposition into our legal order of Directives of the European Union relating to these laws is set for the following European Directives: 2019/2034, 2019/2177, 2020/1504, 2021/338. In addition, the proposed amendment will deal with: the amendment of references to the new Banking Act, the annual reports of public companies in uniform electronic form, the elimination of the inconsistencies found in the Act under consideration. From the data of the Securities Market Agency at the end of the 31st day. 12. 2020 shows that the market capitalisation of the organised market in the Republic of Slovenia amounted to EUR 40.88 billion, compared to EUR 35 billion in 2019. There were 57 financial instruments listed on the organised market, while there were 62 in 2019. In the Republic of Slovenia, 21 companies had a licence to provide investment services and business, of which 4 were broker companies, 11 banks, 3 management companies and 3 savings banks. The Law on the Market of Financial Instruments was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the Slovenian market in financial instruments and to implement European Union law in this field. The law regulates institutions for the provision of investment services and transactions, including the supply of securities to the public and the protection and protection of investors. However, since the European Union wanted to stimulate economic growth in the European Union while also seeking to protect investors, and also at European Union level, to improve the functioning of capital markets, in order to provide alternative financial resources for the economy, a number of directives amending Directive 2014/45 on the market in financial instruments have been adopted for this purpose. Today's bill will implement them into the Slovenian legal order. The main solutions to the proposal for a law are: the establishment of a new prudential regime in relation to risk management, reporting and disclosure and the rules on remuneration for investment firms; the transfer of the powers of the authorities issuing authorisations to service providers; the communication of data, with the exception of certain exceptions, their control and data collection powers are transferred to the European Securities and Markets Authority; the identification of out-of-court persons authorised to provide mass financing services under Directive 2014/45, in order to avoid situations where the same activity requires more authorisations in the European Union; and the introduction of targeted changes to the current Union law on financial services that eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic barriers and the introduction of carefully moderate measures to mitigate economic turmoil; the change of references to the new Banking Act; and the regulation of annual reports of public companies in non-coherence; At the proposal of the proposed amendment to the law, the Legislative and Legal Service had some comments, which were largely overturned at the meeting of the Finance Committee with amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Since this is how the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is prepared and because it is being adopted that we want to avoid difficult financial consequences for the country, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The bill, like the other two, which we are considering today, was introduced into the legislative procedure on 1 July. For all, the College has decided to deal with them in an urgent manner. Together, there are 220 pages, but it is a very difficult and challenging topic for which, in our view, it would be imperative to take more time. The laws change the arrangements for mortgage and utility bonds, the market for financial instruments and the prudential supervision of investment firms. In the LMŠ, we objected to the proposal for an urgent procedure at the college. Why? This is an area where, prior to the outbreak of the financial crisis in the United States, there has been a marked increase in the deregulation of the financial market, particularly in the area of mortgage bonds. This later turned into a mortgage crisis, which later spread like fire all over the world. The totality of mortgage bond issuers on the one hand, the recalculation of credit rating agencies on the other and, in particular, the carelessness of the legislator were those who favoured the creation of derivatives that did not have coverage. Since the historical memory is still fresh, we need to be careful in regulating this area. Here's the question why such a rush. The draft law states that the provisions of Directive 2019/2162 have not yet been transposed by any Member State, and it is therefore totally incomprehensible that such heavy matter is to be considered as part of the 50-point session, since it would be possible to address this subject without a problem after the regular procedure in the autumn. While it is the same for all three laws that the time constraints on the transposition of the Directive have arisen because of the increased scope of the legislative acts for the transposition of directives in the field of capital market and the technical nature of the content requiring detailed coordination. It is true that in difficult times, but probably not everyone at the Ministry of Finance has dealt with anti-korona packages, the drafting of decrees and the drafting of budgets. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, we tabled an amendment to Article 91 to the amendment to the law at the LMŠ, as it seemed unacceptable to us that the coalition was so drastically reducing the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. Under such shallow conditions as have been proposed, we could not get rid of the feeling in the LMŠ that the Government is creating the basis for another political recruitment at such an important agency. Fortunately, a similar amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee at the end, which would still require professional competence from the candidate. In the light of everything listed in the LMŠ package of three laws, we will not devote our vote of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Dajan Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, a nice greeting to the representatives of the Government as well. How do we define the comprehensive and complex legislative proposal that the Government is sending to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure, which refers to the need for a rapid transposition of European directives and highlights the possibility of high monetary penalties for Slovenia if we do not do so in time? Under normal circumstances, the opposition also listens to governmental reasons for this way of dealing and tries to participate constructively in the adoption of the proposed laws. Trust in the one who directs the boat is key to transparency and support for solutions. A good year of government now has taught us caution. In view of the planted contents that the Government has already included in its current proposals, this is certainly on the spot; whoever has been bitten by a snake is also afraid of twisted ropes. The responsibility for building trust rests with the government on a case-by-case basis, but this government, through similar procedures, is itself undermining its credibility and creating the minimum confidence it needs to lead the country. Your Honor! The package of three laws by which the Government has extended the agenda of this meeting is not necessary to comply with the European directives. The only truth is that there has indeed been the adoption of a new European regulation and the completion of directives that countries must transpose into their national legislation, but there is no hurry to implement. The material of one of the proposed laws clearly points out that Slovenia will be the first country to transpose the common rules into its national rules. What are the manoeuvres aimed at, therefore, by emergency procedures, threats to penalties, Saturday treatment on committees and the enlargement of the agenda? We don't know the answers to that. According to this government's modus operandi, we were expecting planters, and we really did find them. Remember the first version of how it seemed important for the rulings to change the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the Agency, who oversees Slovenian financial markets. The proposed amendment did not, however, reduce the criteria for the management of this important body, but it did shed light on them and left the Director’s competence criteria to subjective interpretations. Your Honor! The content of the laws shows that it is not an urgent matter. The deadline for implementing the Directives has not yet expired, so penalties are not a threat. With most solutions, Slovenia will be the first to adopt them into its legal order. The government also pushes two new laws into the same package: supervision of investment firms and mortgage and utility bonds. These are areas that are strongly underdeveloped in Slovenia. Their development requires, in particular, smart regulation and will not be achieved by agile copying of directives. Nor are they surprised by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out that many of the solutions in law are inconsistent and inconsistent, which can only mean new regulatory corrections in the near future. We cannot support proposals made in this way and with such solutions in the Group of Social Democrats. The adoption of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, by which the Government wanted to blur the conditions for the management of the Securities Market Agency, will be opposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Even in Levica, we do not support the rush to accept this marriage package in any way. Let me explain a little bit. We have a complex but handwritten law that lacks basic elements, starting with clear explanations. Such a lazi reader, after reading this law, may not be quite clear as to what the Government wants with him. However, it is a fact that this fast-written law is used to regulate an organised securities market whose market capitalisation exceeds EUR 40 billion. Similarly, a few weeks ago we received the Banking Act and the Bank Rescue and Forced Ceasing Act, which regulate the entire Slovenian banking system, which manages up to EUR 45 billion of money. All these packages on regulating capital markets and regulating the banking system are said to be systems that control 40 billion market capitalisation and 45 billion market capitalisation, combined 85 billion, all of which we have accepted under some kind of Damocles sword, if we do not accept it quickly, we are facing penalties for the non-transmission of European directives. As my predecessors have said, these threats are more or less empty and, on the other hand, it is better to have well-regulated regulation of banks and capital markets. Finally, it is not yet a decade from the financial crisis, when we have paid billions, not thousands or tens of thousands of euros, billions of euros due to errors in the regulation of our banks and capital systems. We should therefore not rush into this and have an in-depth public debate on how to have a banking and capital market regulated. And then there's this under the line. The government in the introduction of the law states that the functioning of capital markets wants to improve both at EU level and in the Republic of Slovenia, because this would further help the economy and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, as an alternative non-bank source of finance for the economy would be provided. The strengthening and development of the capital market is at the heart of a healthy and development-oriented economy. Here's the thing to say. In Europe, companies are more or less financed by bank loans, and in America and the United Kingdom they are more or less financed through financial markets. Now, which model is more healthy for the development, sustainable and labour rights-friendly economy? It is definitely a healthier model, as we now know in Europe. If we follow the path proposed here and advocated by the Government, it is said that financing primarily through capital markets will happen as we see in Great Britain and the United States. There companies are more or less subordinate to the so-called maximisation logic for shareholders, which means that capital investors, who are often interested in only short-term incomes, have a key impact in companies, a key impact on their business and pressure on management, how to make business decisions. As it is said, this is not sustainable, capital investors often follow only short-term benefits, short-term profits, which has already been shown there many times or can be followed since the 1980s. You don't have to read hard literature, you can watch that Gordon Gekko movie. So much possible for the context of what we're doing. I will say this under the line that the 45 billion banking market and the 40 billion capital market are not regulated by an urgent procedure, are not regulated by public debates and are not pushing 50 points away from any public attention, so we do not support the procedure in Levica nor do we support the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me introductoryly say that the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, who are advocates of working and business people in the country, will support the amendment of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. 50 points of the agenda up or down, should also work in the National Assembly. The Covid-19 pandemic has seriously affected people, businesses, health systems, the economy, the financial systems of the Member States. In its Communication to the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on 27 May, entitled Time for Europe: Renewal and preparation for the next generation, stressing that liquidity and access to finance will continue to be a major challenge, and therefore it is crucial to support recovery following the serious economic shock caused by the covid-19 pandemic by removing bureaucratic barriers by introducing limited targeted changes to current Union law on financial services. The overall objectives of these amendments are to remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers and to introduce carefully targeted measures that are considered effective in mitigating economic shocks. The operation of capital markets is intended to improve both at EU level and in Slovenia in order to further help the economy, thus mitigating the consequences of the pandemic and providing alternative non-bank sources of finance for the economy. The Slovenian capital market is very poorly developed. The investment activity of Slovenian companies is lower than the EU average and companies use their own resources most to finance them, followed by bank loans. Small emerging economies, despite significant growth, do not have enough local investors to enable development. Getting money through capital funds or mass funding is very rare. The overall assessment of the capital market for Slovenia is poor and thus the benefits to be developed by the markets for both Slovenian investors and companies are still quite remote. Companies, of course, have different resources available to finance their business and development. In addition to the debts they receive from banks and for which they pay interest, equity resources are also available where investors participate in the distribution of profits, state and European Union grants and mass financing. The first data in the eyes is the low level of investment of Slovenian companies, which has not yet reached a pre-crisis level. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2017 companies created €4 000 979 million of investment in new and used fixed assets, still less than in 2008, when these investments were €6 000 731 million. Colleagues and colleagues, if the Austrians have entrepreneurs and they are highly valued and respected by politics, then we are unfortunately in Slovenia, that is our conclusion, an increasing number of opponents of entrepreneurs. It's okay, actually. Slovenian entrepreneurs will move their businesses abroad and we will remain just a social state. When we are all together, indeed all together, it will be too late to find that the social state is also financed and, above all, a strong economy. We have to do something or the market will close. Given the current political constellation, it is unlikely that it will be taken into account to stimulate capital markets by means of tax instruments. We must all do something together; market participants, market infrastructure providers, regulators and states, that is, politics, we must know the purpose of a well-functioning capital market and also commit ourselves politically to achieving it. What we are dealing with today, this logical trio of laws, is the first step in the right direction. I hope that there will be more in the future and that these steps will also experience significant accelerations. It'll be good for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Dearly greeted colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which transposes into our legal order certain provisions of the European Union Directive relating to the capital market. Capital markets must work effectively and transparently, because only such markets represent a reliable pillar on which the economy can rely. Companies need an effective scheme of potential funding resources to carry out their missions. In doing so, it is important that the platform through which economic operators provide financing for their investments highlights stability and reliability. The changing and uncertain situation in financial markets is the main dissuasive element of investment, including jobs and general social well-being. The proposal for this law further regulates the prudential supervision of investment firms. This means that new rules of the prudential regime will be laid down, including reporting and disclosure of information, and risk management. In addition, provisions will be transposed into our legal order that will change the system of licences and the powers to access information. In the SMC Group, we are working hard to ensure that the effectiveness of capital markets is constantly improved both in our national economy and at the level of the European Union as a whole. However, there are major challenges ahead, and these relate mainly to limiting and addressing the consequences of the pandemic on the economy. Capital markets will play a key role in re-awakening economic potential in their role as alternative non-bank funding sources. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that all legislative changes affecting financial instruments need to be handled with caution. In recent decades, one of the worst financial crises in the history of the world has been fuelled by inadequate regulation. However, the proposal of the law before us today is working towards greater transparency and other deeper interventions into matter are not foreseen. We therefore understand the bill as part of the effort to develop and strengthen capital markets, which will be the basis for a healthy and development-oriented economy. Therefore, Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! The European Union wants to improve the functioning of capital markets as it will further help the economy. Capital markets are regulated by alternative non-bank sources of finance for the economy, which will be one of the facilitators of the effects of the pandemic. As both the strengthening and the development of the capital market are the foundation of a healthy and development economy, Europe has adopted four new directives, which are being transposed into the Slovenian legal system by today's amendment. The novel will legislate the strictest rules to ensure the protection of investors participating in the financial instruments market. The new law is also linked to the Law on prudential supervision of investment firms. Both set up a new credit rating regime for risk management, reporting and disclosure, as well as rules on remuneration for investment firms. The overall objectives of the amendment proposal are also to remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers and to introduce effective measures to prevent economic shocks. Although the government has proposed a very extensive law to the National Assembly by adopting an emergency procedure. The deadline for the transposition of the three directives has already expired, and due to the delay, Slovenia is subject to action and fines by the European Commission. Such ad hoc actions by the Government, which in fact does not want members of the National Assembly to be really familiar with the content of the law, are totally inappropriate. On 1 July, the Anti-Corruption Commission explicitly warned the Government about the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. Among other things, it requested precise and comprehensible explanations from the Government. Only those laws and provisions of the laws on which this is justified should be dealt with by the Government under an urgent procedure. Such rapid adoption of laws poses corruption risks. Recall the PKP6, which contained a provision on accreditation of higher education institutions which received the Constitutional Court's repealing seal. The circumstances surrounding the introduction of the contested provision into the intervention law, which is the water per mill of individuals of the ruling party's sphere, are currently being investigated by the KPK in the light of alleged corruption. And even in the law that we are considering today, an unusual provision has emerged — a large novel has been quietly trying to change the conditions that the director of the agency must meet. The managers removed the condition of the professional competence of the person who would lead the agency and thus allowed the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, to appoint a person on a political and not professional basis. In memory of the recent attempt to bring together the various supervisory agencies due to the recruitment of the largest government party, a new attempt to recruit them by means of framed regulations is hardly surprising. Fortunately, this government maneuver remained only for an experiment. Notwithstanding the above, the SAB Group will not support the law, as the law does not respect the basic rules of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the guidance of the Commission to prevent corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The market for financial instruments is unforeseeable by its nature and is characterised by its methods, procedures and processes. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments was adopted in the State Assembly at the end of 2018 in its entirety and complexity. In a good year, the practical application of this law has shown that further major changes are needed. They have been defined in 113 articles, and it is essential that the content of the dossier to be annexed to the requirements for the granting of licences to be decided by the Securities Market Agency is specified in more detail; the powers of the Action Agency are extended in the event of infringements of the rules governing the operation of brokers and the trading in capital markets; the decision-making process and the publication of control measures are more precisely defined, as well as the procedure for the publication of information on the identity of the infringer and its intended judicial protection. The provisions concerning the definition of terms and the exceptions to the obligation to publish the prospectus under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia are updated. The supervisory authority responsible for the performance of the tasks of the competent authority shall be designated, supplemented by its powers and responsibilities; it shall be established with regard to disclosure of information on the measures put forward: a more detailed method of carrying out control and defined control measures; a system of monitoring infringement reports shall be established; infringements and proportionate penalties shall be included. The new legislation on the market in financial instruments responds to the past financial crisis and gives rise to hope that the old big mistake will not recur. Its changes and additions, including today's, are based on the knowledge of the correctness of the conclusion that one is a known objective, and something else is completely different, how to achieve this objective. Today, it is absolutely certain that the past economic and financial crisis has shown that existing macroeconomic models and financial theory are unable to explain processes that distance the prices of financial instruments from their fundamental values. Everything they've been telling us in the last ten years has been fake. The markets did not work on their own, but the creators of financial instruments were not infallible geniuses. In fact, we discovered that money was a political instrument; it was possible to invent billions of euros overnight, which also disappeared overnight, provided that it was agreed by the Government or the central bank. The global financial masters have convinced the public that their models are working well and that risk-prevention techniques and methods of dispersion are developed to perfection. All acted as if they understood the complicated models on which esoteric financial instruments were based, the financial balance of skills expressed victory over common sense. Today's amendments to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments cover 94 articles, which transpose four European directives into the Slovenian legal order. Financial activities are further regulated by the rules on liquidity and risk management for investment firms and the main objectives are later two: to enable economic operators to access different sources of capital anywhere in the European Union and to ensure more efficient functioning of financial instruments markets. Members of the Desus Group will support amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 6b point of the agenda, which is a second defensive proposal for a law on prudential supervision of investment firms within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the bill before you is to transpose Directive 2019/2034 on prudential supervision of investment firms into the Slovenian legal order. Directive 2019/2034 was adopted in a package with Regulation 2019/2033, which jointly established new prudential requirements and supervisory arrangements for investment firms and adapted the requirements to risk profiles and business models of investment firms while maintaining financial stability. So far, all investment firms have been subject to the same rules on capital, liquidity and risk management as credit institutions, which have not taken into account the specificities of investment firms. On the basis of the new legislative framework, investment firms will now be subject to a stand-alone regime for the capital of investment firms, the assessment and calculation of capital requirements, new uniform reporting and public disclosure requirements and a new regime for fixed and variable remuneration rules and requirements for certain undertakings to set up a remuneration committee. Investment firms will now be classified into three classes according to size, nature and complexity, namely, in the first class, the systemically important and large investment firms, which will still be subject to banking rules, and in the second and third classes, investment firms, which will be subject to the rules of this proposal in accordance with Directive 2019/2034. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, the Government proposes that the draft law on prudential supervision of investment firms be considered third in this meeting. President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 60th emergency meeting on 10 July this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law on prudential supervision of investment firms, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members of Parliament, namely Article 6 of the bill. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented in the introductory explanation the objectives and main solutions of the bill. He stressed that the objective of the proposal is to transpose Directive 2019/2034 on prudential supervision of investment firms into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive was adopted in a package by Regulation 2019/2033 and together the two documents established new prudential requirements and supervisory arrangements for the investment of an undertaking and adapted the requirements to risk profiles and business models of investment firms while maintaining financial stability. In its explanation, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that most of the comments made in the written opinion of the Service were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. A representative of the Securities Market Agency also took part in the meeting, which expressed support for the proposed legislative text. The members and members of the Finance Committee did not discuss the text of the bill. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted all six amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on prudential supervision of investment firms. The main objective of the bill is to implement EU Directive 2019/2034 in the Slovenian legal order. The key and main main solutions to this Act are to determine the competent supervisory authority, its powers in the Republic of Slovenia will be performed by the Securities Market Agency, the establishment capital of investment firms, the principles of prudential supervision, the powers and duties of protecting confidential information and their exchange, control measures, investigative powers and the right to judicial protection, the review procedure of the supervisory authority of the investment firm groups, disclosures relating to supervision shall be established. We will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Hello, hello! Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. To date, all investment firms at European Union level have been subject to the same rules on capital, liquidity and risk management as credit institutions based on international standards applicable to banks. On the basis of the present directive and regulation, investment firms will now be subject to a specific regulatory regime, specific requirements for capital, assessment and calculation of capital requirements, new reporting and public disclosure requirements and a new regime for fixed and variable remuneration rules and requirements for certain undertakings to set up a remuneration committee. The regulatory regime will not be the same for all investment firms, but will depend on the firm's size for strict regulation. In practice, it is a deregulation of investment firms with a balance sheet of less than €15 billion. The competent authority for the supervision of investment firms and their capital shall be designated. In order to be able to carry out an investment activity, the stock exchange house must have at least EUR 750 000 or ten times less to manage less risky business. Slovenia is lagging behind in the adoption of the European documents and is also bringing two key weaknesses. Firstly, we again have a fast and poorly written law before us, which is unclear and without clear reasons, and the government wants to re-adopt it with today for tomorrow, without serious public debate. The Law on prudential supervision of investment firms, together with the amendment of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, interferes with the regulation of the organised securities market, whose market capitalisation exceeds EUR 40 billion. That is why it is extremely inappropriate for such an important law to be adopted under an emergency procedure. As usual, the Government excuses reckless and untransparent haste by arguing that the unfavourable outcome of the procedure could be a heavy financial burden for the Republic of Slovenia and would therefore have severe remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. It is a matter of some 10 or worst case, €100,000 for the delay in transposing the European Directive, and the deadline for transposition of this Directive has already expired. Thus, when we are talking about the 45 billion banking sector and the 40 billion capital market, the irreparable consequences that could result from inadequate regulation of the banking system and the capital market are far greater than the consequences that may arise as a result of monetary penalties resulting from the delay in the transposition of several directives. Secondly, the law introduces a deregulation of the business of companies providing investment services and transactions. Investment firms, which often carry out risky speculative transactions and trade in complex financial instruments, have so far been subject to the same regulatory standards as banks. In the new light, the rules applicable to banks will apply only to investment firms with a balance sheet of more than €15 billion. For investment firms whose balance sheet amount is less than 15 billion, new, lighter rules are being introduced. Basically, the European Directive being transposed into this law is intended to remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers and unnecessary regulatory mechanisms for small and medium-sized investment firms. However, small and medium-sized investment firms are in fact very large according to the standards of the Directive. The balance sheet amount of NLB, which is the largest bank in Slovenia, is EUR 11 billion and the balance sheet of the second largest Slovenian bank, i.e. NKBM, is 9. Here we are talking about deregulation of companies with a 15 billion-dollar balance sheet. A company with higher consolidated revenues than the largest bank in Slovenia will therefore be subject to lower regulatory standards according to a new one. For both reasons, i.e. renewed government handball in the adoption of legislation and the awareness of the danger posed by deregulation of investment activities, we will oppose the law on prudential supervision of investment firms in the Left Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the adoption of the law is the transposition of Directive 2019/2034 into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive was adopted in a package with European Regulation 2019/2033 on prudential requirements for investment firms which jointly set new prudential requirements and supervisory arrangements for investment firms and adapt the requirements to risk profiles and business models of investment firms while maintaining financial stability. Members of New Slovenia will support the law. So far, all investment firms are subject to the same rules on capital, liquidity and risk management as credit institutions. On the basis of Directive 2019/2034 and the above-mentioned Regulations, investment firms will now be independently defined: firstly, the investment firm’s establishment capital regime; secondly, the assessment and calculation of capital requirements; thirdly, the new uniform reporting and public disclosure requirements; fourthly, the new fixed and variable remuneration rules regime; and fifthly, the requirements for certain undertakings to set up a remuneration committee. The main solutions to the bill are: the competent supervisory authority is established – in Slovenia, of course, it will be the Agency for the Market in Securities and its Competence –; the establishment capital of the stock exchange company, which depends on the characteristics of the company, is set at between €75 000 and €750 000; the principles of prudential supervision are laid down, namely, the competence and duty of the home Member States and host Member States; the duty to protect confidential information and their exchange; the supervisory measures and sanctions imposed by the Agency in respect of infringements of the law or regulation; the investigative powers and the right to judicial protection; the review procedure of the supervisory authority; the supervision of investment firm groups. The European Banking Authority of EBA launched a public consultation on remuneration policies and internal management guidelines for investment firms in accordance with the Directive on prudential supervision of investment firms last December. The guidelines clarify more precisely the provisions on remuneration and internal management that investment firms will have to take into account. As has already been said, Members of New Slovenia will be unanimously supported by the law on prudential supervision of investment firms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State, other present, very nice greeting! The proposal for a law on prudential supervision of investment firms is part of the laws governing the European capital market. The proposed law acts in the direction of equal treatment of all investment firms which will be subject to careful and effective supervision while establishing an environment that will not be disputed for its stakeholders in terms of legal clarity. In addition, the drafter seeks to establish a system of such measures that will be proportionate and have sufficient dissuasive sanctions. By adopting this law, investment firms will begin to be treated separately. So far, they have been subject to the same rules as credit institutions on the amount of capital, risk management and liquidity. In doing so, it is important to stress that laws which prescribe the desired banking relationship and sanctions for non-compliance are not entirely appropriate for investment firms, as they do not take account of their specificities. The bill therefore sets out the regime for the establishment capital of investment firms, the self-assessment and calculation of capital requirements, and also sets out new uniform reporting and public disclosure requirements, which are still important. In the SMC Group, we believe that the solutions proposed under this law are good because they will effectively regulate the business of investment firms in our country. As part of the powers conferred by the proposal for a law on the Securities Market Agency, important prudential supervision and, of course, investigative powers are also mentioned. We are convinced that the effort towards strengthening control, which will not only be deeper but also organised within one institution itself, is a very positive news for the transparency of the capital market of the Union itself, which will ultimately have a direct impact on the higher stability of the business environment, of course, even our companies. This law will not only regulate part of investment firms within the European Union but will also change the conditions under which third-country companies can access the financial markets of the European Union. According to the Government, the legislative act strengthens the equivalence regime for third-country investment firms and gives the European Commission additional powers to decide on the equality of those undertakings. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Your Honor! At today's plenary session, we are considering two entirely new laws, the Investment Company prudential supervision law and the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act. If the government's objective is to really reduce the rules, why these two novelties are not included in existing laws either in the law governing the market in financial instruments or in any other law in the field of finance. It is true that the new regulation is dictated by European legislation, but this does not mean that we need completely new laws to implement them. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, a specific right is laid down in the draft law for investment firms. In particular, the rules relating to equity, assessment and calculation of capital requirements, the new uniform reporting and public disclosure requirements. The legal arrangements of investment firms are thus adapted to the risk profiles and business models that these companies have with a view to maintaining financial stability, which, on the other hand, means greater security for investors. The competent implementation of the law shall be conferred on the Securities Market Agency. The Government proposes that this demanding and extensive law be adopted on an urgent basis. It was put into the legislative procedure at the beginning of this month and only a few days later, without allowing the legislative body to take the proposal seriously, practically requires its adoption. Why is the government so hasty? It appears that it is simply because the law has not been drawn up in time because the deadline for transposition of European rules expired in the previous month. At least what the reputable Slovenian budget needs today is, of course, a fine that will create an additional financial burden for Slovenia, only because the government has not done its job this time. Let me remind you that the Government in the Debarcation Act also considers strengthening respect for the principles of legal certainty, protection, trust in law and clarity and regulation, but today's proposal for a law is contrary to these objectives. Provisions defining fines for offences are diametrically contrary to the Offences Act. This provides that a fine may only be prescribed in a certain amount or range. Contrary to that law, fines are imposed as a percentage of annual turnover or in a multiple of profits, alternative fines and fines exceeding the maximum legal permissible amount. Even if the directive dictates such a type and the amount of fines and, if it cannot be avoided, at least the basic degree of care is expected from the executive branch, namely that the Law on Offences, which is a system law, should it derogate from it in another law. The current proposal is contrary to and inconsistent with the Law on Offences, and consequently with the Constitution, which dictates the principle of legality. And all of the above denies the affirmation of the Government's efforts for legal certainty, confidence in the law and clarity of the regulations. As in the SAB, we believe that such non-compliance with the current regulation is ripe for the Constitutional Court's assessment, we will not support the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the Republic of Slovenia, they may provide investment services and transactions, as well as ancillary investment services of a trading company, banks authorised by the Bank of Slovenia to provide investment services and transactions, investment firms of the Member States of the European Union which, in accordance with the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, establish a branch in the Republic of Slovenia or are entitled directly to provide investment services and transactions in the Republic of Slovenia, and banks or special financial institutions of the Member States of the European Union which have established a branch in the Republic of Slovenia or are entitled to direct investment services and transactions in Slovenia. Credit supervision means control of the legality of business and of business in accordance with the rules on risk management. At the end of 2020, four stock exchange companies operated on the financial instruments market in Slovenia with the authorisation of the Securities Market Agency for the provision of investment services and transactions. Of those four, two companies started a procedure last year for the cessation of the provision of investment services and transactions. These types of transactions, such as investment services and transactions, were provided by 14 other banks, of which 9 could only provide trading services for their own account. These transactions were also carried out by three management companies and one branch of a credit institution from a Member State and one branch of an investment firm from a Member State. This is a picture and opportunity of investment services and business in Slovenia. In addition, it was possible to provide investment transactions and services to a thousand more 700 investment firms and credit institutions from the Member States of the European Union, which have notified the provision of these services directly to the Securities Market Agency or to the Bank of Slovenia. Market changes are intense and it is therefore expected that the branch of a credit institution from a Member State will take the lead. At least this is the opinion of experts from the Securities Market Agency. Today, we transpose the provisions of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order by which investment service providers will have to comply with new legal requirements and establish an appropriate reporting system. Investment firms will be categorised in four categories and detailed requirements are laid down in respect of capital, principles of prudential supervision, review procedures, including supervision of investment firm groups and disclosures in respect of supervision. Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the law on prudential supervision of investment firms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 6th C.P.D., which is a second defence proposal for the Hipotecarna and Communal Bond Act under urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the proposed Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond in front of you is to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/2162 on the issue of covered bonds and public control of covered bonds. This Directive is the first directive to minimally harmonise the structural characteristics of covered bonds and exercise control over covered bonds as securities in the Member States of the European Union. Currently, the regulation of a covered bond as a security is left to the Member States alone and thus is not uniform in the European Union, while the rules on investing by credit institutions in covered bonds are already uniform. By transposing the provisions of Directive 2019/2162, the structural characteristics and the critical assets of covered bonds will also be minimally uniform in all Member States of the European Union. Directive 2019/2162 lays down or allows Member States more discretionary options or options when transposing provisions into national frameworks. These are taken into account in the draft law in the way that the highest possible security of investors in covered bonds is pursued. In Slovenia, we already have the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act, the so-called ZHKO-1, which is not fully in line with that Directive. Given that the full transposition of Directive 2019/2162 requires a more important improvement of the existing law in several parts, we have decided to prepare a new law and not a novel. The key solutions in the bill are: unifying the structural characteristics of covered bonds as securities, double insurance of covered bonds investors, exemption from resolution and forcible winding-up of credit institutions, requirements for covert assets and their management, requirements for the exercise of public control over the issuance, operation, management of covered bonds, and requirements for public information to investors. In Slovenia, no credit institution has issued a covered bond since the volume of the issue must be substantial to justify the costs of the issue. Therefore, credit institutions in the Republic of Slovenia are currently not financed by the issue of covered bonds. The establishment of a uniform framework for covered bonds could encourage the development of this market in Slovenia, which could contribute to a more stable source of funding for credit institutions, which could lead to more favourable mortgage loans for consumers and businesses, while investors could have safer alternative investments. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government proposes that a third consideration of the draft law be held at this meeting. President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This bill was also considered by the Committee on Finance at its 60th emergency meeting last Saturday as a working body by the Government and submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption in accordance with the urgent procedure of the Government. It is therefore a proposal for a mortgage and utility bond law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members' groups, in their 13th Article. In the introductory explanation, the Secretary of State presented the objectives and main solutions of the draft law which transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/2162 and eliminate some inconsistencies in the Mortgage and Credit Bond Act No 1. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the service had drawn up a written opinion and explained that most of the comments tabled by the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC were taken into account. The representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Securities Market Agency said that both institutions had participated in the drafting of the law and supported it. In the debate that followed, Members drew attention to the complexity and importance of the law's proposal to the speed of the legislative process, as it is an urgent process, and that Slovenia will be the first Member State to transpose this directive into its legal order. It was pointed out that high penalties were imposed when Member States were late in implementing the Directives and it was also pointed out that competent institutions should exercise appropriate control over the solutions provided for in the proposal for a law on municipal and mortgage bonds. In the debate, the Secretary of State and the representative of the Bank of Slovenia answered the questions raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered amendments to the 13th articles of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted all 13 amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union this half-year, so it is probably right not to delay the transposition of the directives into the Slovenian legal order. The New Slovenia Group will support the law – the new law – on mortgage and municipal bonds. First, a quick look at the financial dictionary, what a mortgage bond is. The mortgage bond is a debt securities where the principal is secured by one or more mortgages on real estate. In the event of bankruptcy of the issuer, mortgageholders shall be reimbursed for the sale of the immovable property held. Capital insurance has an effect on the interest rate, as the market sees it as a safer investment. On the basis of this built-in protection, interest on mortgage bonds is slightly lower compared to similar business bonds. In the case of mortgage bonds, only mortgage credit claims may be included. What's a utility bond? It is a debt securities in which only credit claims subject to public law, for example, can constitute sovereign debt. Now to the marriage. The proposed law transposes the provisions of Directive No 2019/2162 and thus minimum harmonises the framework for the issuance of structural features of covered assets, the control of public information for investors and the payment of covered bonds. The mortgage and utility bonds are the form of covered bonds, these are covered bonds in respect of which investors can directly exercise rights as priority creditors. Slovenia has decided to transpose the provisions of the directive in such a way that the national legal framework for covering the bond in this proposal will govern only the critical assets of mortgage and municipal bonds, since other types of covered bonds are not on the Slovenian market. The law transposes the provisions of that Directive, regulates the requirements for issuing covered bonds by credit institutions, the structural characteristics of covered bonds, public control over covered bonds and the public disclosure requirements for covered bonds. Among other things, the proposal introduces a discretionary option for the provisions of that Directive to designate Member States as custodians of assets. Its designation shall ensure the safety of investors in covered bonds. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you again for your word, President. Secretary of State, other present very nice greetings! In the context of this item of the agenda, we are deciding on the proposal for a mortgage and municipal bond law, the purpose of which is to bring solutions to the legal order under certain provisions of the Directive of the European Union. These provisions lead to the unification of the requirements for the issue of covered bonds and public control over those bonds, which prescribe the structural characteristics of the covered bonds and the requirements for the publication of public information on those bonds. In the Slovenian market, we have only two types of covered bonds: a municipal and mortgage bond, and therefore the legal framework for covered bonds governs only assets that only relate to these bonds. Covered bonds are becoming an increasingly important factor in the operation of global credit institutions, which provide certain sources of funding in international financial markets for their use. The profession also expects that the circulation and relevance of these covered bonds will be significantly strengthened in the future, as this is a fairly favourable alternative to borrowing. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that the proposal for a law addresses the challenges associated with the current situation in the covered bond market, while taking due account of the recommendations of the European Union itself. As part of its solutions, the law requires credit institutions to have a registered office in a Member State to issue such bonds and that special public supervision and a double insurance mechanism must be used to operate those institutions. In doing so, it is necessary to obtain agreement and in our case the agreement of Banka Slovenije is issued. We can say for the European Union that the conditions for investing in these covered bonds are well unified. This is not yet the case with the conditions for issuing covered bonds, as Member States have different frameworks for their own national legislation and in some countries there is no specific framework for such bonds at all. The disagreement between national arrangements concerning the covered bond market in the European Union area could constitute a potential obstacle to the real effective development of this single bond market and may ultimately have a negative impact on the financial stability of the European Union. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are working to ensure a permanent and effective market for these so-called covered bonds on the European Union market. Only this can represent a stable source of funding for the credit institutions themselves, which would not only be reflected in a safer alternative to investment for investors, but would have a positive impact on the wider economy through larger lending offers. On the basis of the above, the facts will be supported by law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Your Honor! Slovenia acquired the law, which first regulated the mortgage and utility bond, in 2006. Since then, several directives have been adopted at European level to ensure a high degree of harmonisation of the rules, to invest credit institutions in these bonds. At the beginning of 2020, a new directive entered into force, which also harmonises the conditions to be met in order to issue these bonds. The proposed law transposes into our legal order a European directive setting out the harmonisation of the conditions for issuing covered bonds as securities. Credit institutions for the issue of covered bonds shall acquire long-term funding sources in international financial markets. The validity of the same conditions for all issuers within the European Union will also bring a higher level of protection to domestic investors. A double insurance is provided for investors in mortgage and utility bonds in such a way that the investor has a claim both for covered bonds and for covered assets. Additional security for investors in these bonds is also a provision exempting covered bonds from the resolution and forcible liquidation of credit institutions. In the event of bankruptcy, investors will be able to pay in accordance with the agreed contractual class. In addition to the conditions for issuing covered bonds, the law also provides for control over issuers and their bonds. Thus, Banka Slovenije will only be able to take its decisions on covered bonds on the basis of the previous opinion of the Securities Market Agency. The novelty should have a positive impact on the economy due to the new requirements to be met by both covered bonds and the institutions that issue them. However, in the SAB, we are wondering whether this is actually going to be the case. In fact, the government has proposed that the law should be dealt with following an urgent procedure and that its parliamentary treatment should be given only for a few days. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points out that the conditions for urgency of the procedure are not given. The treatment of the law by emergency procedure is an exception when it is in fact absolutely necessary to prevent the serious consequences for the country and its citizens. It is therefore in accordance with established business practice that such a law enters into force and applies as early as the day following its publication and, contrary to the above, today's novelty does not apply until July 2022. So why are we in such a hurry? The explanations of the law are so sceptical that they have less scope than the proposed provisions. The rules merely summarise the text of the provisions without giving rise to the purpose and purpose of the legislator, which is essential for any constitutionally compatible legal regime. As a result, today we have before us a new law that gives rise to legal uncertainty and mistrust in law, because the provisions of the law are not clear, not understandable and not unambiguous. In view of the above, we in the SAB are convinced that such a poorly prepared law will have the opposite effect of being pursued. The vague, inconclusive, unequivocal legal rules cannot provide greater protection for investors, but on the contrary. The SAB Group will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The bond is a claim in writing whereby the issuer of the bond undertakes to be its holder, the creditor shall claim, within a certain period of time, a loaned amount increased by interest. Mortgage and utility bonds fall within their structural characteristics, covert assets and required coverage and liquidity reserve requirements among covered bonds. Covered bonds shall be bank bonds covered by a covered asset from which the liabilities to the holders of these bonds are repaid in the event of insolvency of the issuer bank. In the event of insolvency of the issuer, the holder of the covered bond shall have a prior right in the case of the issuer, provided that these assets are not sufficient to pay the creditors, and those creditors shall also have a claim under the issuer's other assets in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of creditors with the other holders of the unsecured debt of the issuer. The covered bond thus offers the holder double protection, which, in addition to the normal guarantee of the issuer with its own capital, contains an additional guarantee in the specified property. Therefore, the risk of investing in covered bonds is lower than the risk of investing in unfunded bank and corporate bonds. Investors therefore see them as debt securities with high security and issuers as an attractive long-term source of funding to provide a wider investor base and to dissipate funding sources. The means used to secure covered bonds, the means to maintain the quality of the covered assets and the protection of the interests of investors and other creditors in the event of bankruptcy of the applicant are the most important provisions of the mortgage and municipal bond law. Covered bonds are debt securities which have a tradition of use in European Union countries, mainly in Germany, France, Spain and Denmark. For the issue of covered bonds, a well-developed legal and regulatory infrastructure, an orderly and up-to-date land book and regulated enforcement legislation are also crucial. There are currently no covered bonds in Slovenia. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the representative of Banka Slovenije provided information that so far only one credit institution has expressed interest after their issuance, but the procedures have ended without the specific emission of this financial instrument. The information is indicative, as it says that the transposition of the European directive, which is now being transposed into the Slovenian legal order by law, is the basis for a series of financial operations that may yet take place. Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President. Following an urgent procedure, the Government has tabled in Parliament a proposal for a mortgage and municipal bond law which deals with the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2019/2162 governing the issue of covered bonds by credit institutions, establishes the structural characteristics of covered bonds, public control over covered bonds and provides for the public publication of information on covered bonds. At least the conditions for issuing covered bonds as securities are harmonised minimally by the EU Directive. The bill deals only with the critical assets of mortgage and utility bonds, since there are no other covered bonds on the Slovenian market. The law also includes the elimination of the identified shortcomings of the previous law. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 45. Agenda item – Proposal for a resolution on the long-term climate strategy of Slovenia by 2050. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment. Madam Secretary of State, you can take off your pay phone mask.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I would briefly present the content of the Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050, the so-called climate strategy. Slovenia aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 with a clear climate strategy. By 2050, greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 80 to 90 per cent compared to 2005 and will improve sinks and, at the same time, speed up the implementation of climate change adaptation policies and the provision of climate security for the population. For the period up to 2030, the climate strategy is based on the decisions already taken as defined in the various sectoral documents, among which the comprehensive National Energy Plan, which assumes the role of the action document, plays an important role. The climate strategy for sectoral documents builds up with vision and long-term objectives by 2050 and guidance for achieving them; it shows a clear long-term path for the development of Slovenia towards zero greenhouse gas emissions; accelerated transition to renewable energy sources: the abandonment of fossil fuels and the reduction of final energy use. At the same time, it shows opportunities for us to have a favourable impact on the environment, to maintain biodiversity, to reduce energy export dependence, which is very important, and to enable new development opportunities in the common energy markets, to manage costs and thus energy poverty, which is another very important element, to ensure green jobs and to increase the competitiveness of businesses. The aim is also to ensure that the use of final energy in 2050 is largely based on renewable sources of energy other than other low-carbon sources. Measures and prioritisation focus on individual sectors, namely transport, energy supply, agriculture and buildings and waste. In transport, which today contributes a third of all total emissions, it will be necessary to ensure efficient public passenger transport, to establish a modern rail network, to divert freight to railways, to promote vehicle congestion and to reduce the need for daily mobility, to promote more environmentally friendly forms of mobility, as well as cycling. Most of the vehicles will be powered by electricity, supplemented by renewable or synthetic gases. In the energy supply sector, the use of electricity will increase significantly mainly due to all new, both vehicles and other elements of electricity, and the opportunity of the electricity system needs to be improved and, of course, energy storage solutions must be included, then system-based district heating, cooling – will be based on the use of excessive heat from renewable and other necessary neutral sources of energy. Of course, the most important is the abandonment of coal, which will be in line with the timetable adopted in the National Strategy for the abandonment of coal use and the restructuring of coal regions, in line with the principles of a fair transition by the end of 2021. We then have key areas in the industry sector, where the transition to a low-carbon circular economy will be one of the most important elements, we also need to modernise production processes, promote basic efficiency projects and the use of low-carbon technologies and develop the production of new sustainable products and services and reduce the use of heat, and increase the use of renewable energy in industry and overheat, and establish infrastructures for the use of synthetic gas and hydrogen. Agriculture plans to reduce climate impacts taking into account the natural conditions for farming in Slovenia, improve food security and increase food supply, reduce negative impacts on water, soil and air and protect biodiversity, preserve cultural landscapes, ensure animal welfare and preserve or increase agricultural carbon stocks. [[Incomprehensible]] Buildings [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Dear Secretary of State, you've already gone through [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	I'm concluding. There are only two other objectives, namely in the area of buildings where energy renovation is concerned, and in the area of waste, where waste is used again, either for energy or for new products. Thank you very much, but I'm sorry. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as a parent working body, addressed the Proposal for a Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In a complementary explanation to the motion for a resolution, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, on behalf of the applicant, stressed, inter alia, that Slovenia, through its climate strategy, has set itself a clear objective of achieving net zero-mission or climate neutrality by 2050. By 2050, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 90 per cent compared to 2005 and will improve sinkholes while at the same time speeding up the implementation of climate change adaptation and climate security policies. Priority areas for action to reduce energy needs will be: energy efficiency, the circular economy and other sustainable practices. Renewable resources will be well integrated into the energy system through the integration of all types of networks and energy systems, including the conversion of energy storage. Slovenia will increase the share of renewables in final energy use in all sectors, with a total share of at least 60 per cent by 2050. In accordance with the powers vested in it the opinion of the motion for a resolution was given by the Legal and Legislative Service, which has no comments to it. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the motion for a resolution. In particular, the debate was held by the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Members of the Left, in their view, over the last period in the adoption of important environmental documents creates the feeling that the opinion of the interested and professional public is not sufficiently taken into account in the public debate and that often important content is added after the conclusion of the public debate. With regard to specific substantive concerns, however, the Group of Social Democrats drew particular attention to a dictatorship which, in their view, directs Slovenia's energy future to the intensive use of nuclear energy. The motion for a resolution foresees planning its long-term use and, to that end, the implementation of administrative procedures and the preparation of documentation for investment decision-making, thus preventing two or more possibilities of an energy scenario as set out in the Comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan. In their view, such important decisions as the decision on the long-term use of nuclear energy can only be taken with the full involvement of the public and an open debate on the risks involved and possible other alternatives. However, from the SAB Group, it has been pointed out that setting the objective of achieving climate neutrality is an exceptional challenge. In the energy balance of Slovenia, oil represents about 50 per cent, renewable energy sources represent about 14 per cent, and electricity has the largest share of the Šostanj and Krško nuclear power plants and 23 per cent. If greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by 50 per cent by 2030, this should be achieved in particular by reducing oil and electricity consumption, and this raises very large questions and difficult decisions that will not be cheap. For example, it has been pointed out that at least 5 nuclear power plants would be needed for the full replacement of oil. It was pointed out that such a move would therefore require some EUR 30 billion of investment, regardless of which type of energy we would choose. For this reason, it is particularly important that the public be fully involved in the debate before taking such important decisions and that the final decision be taken by means of the widest possible social consensus, including the referendum, if necessary. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to subsection 8.2.4 and its amendment to subsection 6.1.4. The Committee then voted on the entire text of the motion for a resolution together and also adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much and very much! No one can deny the reality of the climate crisis, which threatens and threatens us both in the present and in the future. I think that all of you, Members of Parliament and Members, have been able to monitor in recent weeks reports on how the temperature has exceeded the record 50 degrees in the west of Canada, what the population in Canada has been in, and I think we all imagine what this means for these very cold ecosystems. The heat wave's on us, too. I heard they measured the hottest night in recent years in Ljubljana a good week ago. The temperature did not drop at any point in the night below 25 degrees Celsius, and these trends will only deteriorate. According to some studies, Ljubljana should be the city of all European capitals where the temperature will rise most if we do not take action. It could even rise by 8 degrees by 2050. We know what this means not only for the inhabitants and for our well-being, but especially for ecosystems, for agriculture, for nature, for the biosphere, for all the things that surround us; how much more the flood will be, how much more damage, what billions of damage will be caused by the unforeseeable weather. This is no longer a joke, it is necessary to act immediately against climate change, and this is in fact the first criticism of this climate resolution, which is extremely unambitious and is largely non-ambitious for a key period of 2030. I would say that this resolution is even unconstitutional, because it imposes an unfairly much greater burden on the next generation than it does our generation. If I tell you a few cases. By 2030, this resolution is intended to increase the share of renewable energy sources by a low of 20 per cent to 27 per cent, which means that renewable energy growth will be 0.7 per cent per year over the next 10 years. Then renewable energy sources would miraculously jump to 33% from 2030 to 2050; it is said that the next generation after 2030 is expected to accelerate this investment at a double pace, which will take place over the next 10 years. It is similar to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. By 2030 they were to be reduced from about 5,000 800 to 5,000 kilotons of CO2 equivalent, it is said that we will reduce them by about 80 kilotons per year and then miraculously reduce emissions from 2030 to 2050 from 5,000 to zero. It says now in 10 years for $800, and in the next 20 years it's about 5,000 to nothing. The same is true of the other sectors. In agriculture, greenhouse gases are expected to decrease by one per cent by 2030, by 2040 by 8 per cent and by 22 per cent by 2050. In short, this resolution acts as if the climate crisis is not here and now as if the climate crisis is not threatening us and as if we can postpone all measures after 2030 or even after 2040. Even the resolution itself realizes that the objectives of both the National Energy and Climate Plan and these resolutions are incompatible with the European objective, that is to reduce emissions by 2030 – 2030! - 55%. And the resolution already states that an additional potential across sectors will be analysed and appropriate additional measures designed to achieve this common European objective. Thus, in Levi, we cannot support such an unambitious document, we cannot support the postponement of measures in this key decade until 2030, in order to start facing the climate crisis, and we cannot support the mindset, the thinking behind this resolution, which convinces us that everything can remain the same, even though it is clear to us that we will have to make a lot of radical changes in the future if we want to preserve what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thanks again for saying that. The resolution on the long-term climate strategy of Slovenia is a strategic document with sectoral objectives, which will have to be taken into account and incorporated into its documents and plans by strategic sectors such as transport, electricity and heat production, industry, agriculture, widespread use and waste. Specific measures for these sectors contain a comprehensive energy climate plan. However, the resolution follows the commitments of the Paris Climate Agreement. The main objective of the Slovenian Climate Strategy is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, a net zero greenhouse gas emissions. The analysis of climate change in Slovenia between 1961 and 2019 showed that average air temperature rose by about two degrees Celsius. Increases in temperature rise are: increase in strength and duration of heat waves, increased evaporation and thus the intensity and frequency of droughts and fires, increased precipitation intensity and increased risk of floods and reptiles and the spread of invasive alien species. And how do we achieve climate neutrality by 2050? Greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 80 to 90 per cent in 2005; natural and artificial processes that remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere need to be improved; adaptation policies for climate change must be accelerated; climate security must be ensured for the population; and the total share of renewable energy sources must reach at least 60 per cent by 2050. On the basis of analyses, Slovenia can achieve climate neutrality by 2050 with at least two scenarios. The first scenario is a nuclear scenario; it is the construction of a new nuclear power plant block. And another scenario — the use of synthetic natural gas — is the development and use of sustainable technologies for the production of carbon neutral synthetic fuels from wood biomass, which enables the storage of electricity surpluses produced from renewable energy sources — is wind, solar and water power plants — and their exploitation when these production is not available. Measures in the transport sector that contribute a third of total greenhouse gas emissions are mainly efficient public passenger transport, the establishment of a modern rail network and the rerouting of freight transport to railways. In the energy supply sector, the aim is to produce minimum greenhouse gas emissions and measures are therefore needed to cut coal consumption and increase electricity consumption from renewable energy sources. In the industry sector, the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the transition to a low-carbon circular economy. The agriculture sector is planning to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 22 per cent in 2005 by measures to improve food security, increase food self-sustainment and reduce negative impacts on water, air and land. However, the waste sector is planning to reduce emissions by 81 per cent by putting an end to the disposal of biodegradable waste and better handling and cleaning of municipal water. Measures in the field of biodiversity protection will also be implemented, focusing on improving and restoring ecosystems under the Natura 2000 programme. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we believe that the resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy is ambitious enough and certainly a good basis for Slovenia to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, that is, net zero greenhouse gas emissions, and we will unanimously support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. And here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members and representatives of the Government! We have before us the motion for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050. This is a strategic document under which Slovenia undertakes to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. The document is based on the principles of efficient energy use, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, climate justice and fair transition. In doing so, it is important that the motion for a resolution is based on scientific knowledge and, as such, contains elements that also justify our commitments in terms of technological development and financial capacity. Our key task, therefore, is to set up a system that will allow the company to implement the guidelines set out in this resolution in accordance with the expected dynamics. However, our economy must be encouraged to be increasingly effective in the management of energy and natural resources, while maintaining the competitiveness of the low-carbon circular economy. Energy efficiency, the circular economy and other sustainable practices to reduce energy needs will be priority areas of intervention that will contribute significantly to reducing emissions by the 2050 target year, while at the same time the transition to climate neutral society must be inclusive for both individuals and economic operators, and in this context the principles of climate justice must be taken into account, which will guide our development into the future, in which the city will also be for the most vulnerable social groups. We are pleased that a substantial part of the motion for a resolution before us today is also addressed to this issue. In the SMC Group, we believe in a green future based on the ecologically responsible behaviour of the economy and other segments of our society. Above all, in the field of the economy, we are already trying to introduce measures to promote energy supply from renewable sources and other low-carbon sources. In line with the envisaged resolution, these resources will be better integrated into our energy system in the future, allowing for the integration of all kinds of energy networks and thus serve as a basis for achieving greater efficiency. This motion for a resolution is also understood as a piece in the mosaic of efforts that will motivate people not to exert greater pressure on the environment by carrying out their daily activities. We believe that we need to take an integrated approach to addressing environmental challenges. If we are to meet the required objectives set out in this document, all ministries that will have to implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within their remit must do so. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that the challenging goals we have set ourselves can only be achieved together. The motion for a resolution is clear enough because it accurately sets out the path we need to take in order to achieve the objectives set. We can hope that Slovenia will be resistant to the effects of climate change and that it will be a high quality and safety of life if we follow and pursue the objective of a coherent approach. Members of the Modern Centre Party will therefore support this resolution's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! By 2050, the climate strategy envisages achieving climate neutrality in a way that reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 90 per cent. The existing scenarios to achieve these objectives provide for measures to be invested between €66 billion and €72 billion. This is why decisions on the strategy must be based on the views of the profession and the general public. Thus, in April this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent a motion for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy on the basis of the commitments made by the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to the National Assembly for consideration with a view to achieving climate neutrality in view of the reference year 2005. Meanwhile, the existing Slovenian document by 2030 is based on less ambitious targets, as the European Union has adopted stronger commitments at this time, after which greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by as much as 55 per cent. At the same time, as a society, we must be aware that with smaller steps we are making gradual changes, and in the SAB we are proud to contribute actively to them. It is on our initiative, therefore, in the second reading, that we are restricting or prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products for single, short-term use. The largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia are: transport, agriculture, industrial fuels, industrial processes, energy and other sectors, including heating and sanitation. The question of how to decarbonise the largest greenhouse gas emitters responsible for as much as 80% of all emissions is very complex. So in what way are we going to decarbonize transport, agriculture and industry? And in this light it is clear and correct to say that we do not have any domestic alternatives to this consumption today and in the near future. In order to replace fossil fuels in transport only, approximately 10 Krška nuclear power plants should be built after current consumption. We also do not have the appropriate infrastructure to produce alternative fuels. At the same time, these needs represent a major development potential. That is why comprehensive measures will be needed to change technologies, lifestyles, working habits and working methods. We need to promote public or community modes of transport. The railway and the bus are law, and many pensioners across Slovenia have already found this and are driving free of charge at the initiative of the SAB. At the initiative of the SAB party, there is also an amendment to the law that allows and provides for free transport in our cities. In the meantime, young people get to know cycling routes and electric skiers are fully present in our cities. Finally, we must not overlook the agricultural sector. We will have to adapt our eating and shopping habits and support them locally. The consequences of climate change are also felt these days. Temperatures reach new records, many buildings need thermal insulation for both winter and summer. And we know that the greatest savings are the energy we don't use. At the same time, we point out that the energy recovery in earthquake-affected areas should take place simultaneously, and that is why the SAB party's initiative has also been unanimously adopted and we expect the Government to take appropriate action. With systemic measures for more rational and efficient use of energy and changing our habits, we cannot go beyond the fact that safe, reliable and affordable energy supply also needs to be provided on domestic soils. In the SAB Party, we support the production of electricity from renewable sources, and we also support community-based forms of self-sustainment. The way in which we will already produce electricity and provide energy security, self-sustainment, competitive prices in the near future is not appropriate. The current government is trying to map a nuclear path past public debates. In doing so, we stress the need to make it clear how nuclear energy from JEK could be replaced without a power plant and whether it is technically and economically feasible at all. We stress, however, that the decision on the nuclear future of Slovenia must be confirmed by the people at the referendum. In the SAB party, we believe that the proposal for a long-term climate strategy for Slovenia by 2050 is not bad. We stress, however, that if we oppose the amendment on the nuclear future of Slovenia, we will oppose it. Given that the climate resolution concerns young people in particular, we miss the involvement of young people in preparing a vision of what kind of society they want to live in in 2050. The recent referendum showed a great deal of social responsibility and above all, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Mr. Ambassador, you've already far exceeded your time. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	that they care about the environment. [[…]] It is therefore right that they actively participate in the preparation of guidelines and strategies for a fair and natural digital and carbon-free society based on solidarity and respect for diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to say that you too, Mr Reich, are subject to rules of procedure and time limits. And secondly, consider what I tell you, please. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! At its 30th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space adopted the motion for a resolution on Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050 as its parent. It is planned to achieve net zero emissions or climate neutrality by 2050, among other things. We already have the technological capacity to achieve this objective today. There is, of course, a great deal of questions about procedures and steps to achieve this objective. In no way should we neglect our own resources to the environment, even though there are many greenhouse gases generated from freight transport, as well as personal cars, we are contributing in concrete terms to additional pollution. Only recently has so-called car sharing been on the rise. Why drive ourselves to work when we can share our transportation costs? As a result, we also contribute less to the carbon footprint. Additional options are available for those who live near their work; semi-recreation by bicycle, skir or on foot has a good effect on the body, while reducing our carbon footprint and overcrowding of cars again. If we have a free parking lot available, it does not mean that we must always take advantage of it. There has also been a lot of progress in public transport in recent years. Finally, the so-called old piles that we were riding with and the older generation, as well as some of the students and students, were retired shortly ago. Modernising transport also makes it more attractive. Taking into account the latest price developments for public transport, the arguments against the use of public transport simply run out. We will have to do a lot in the field of agricultural policy. Food production still generates its tax on greenhouse gas emissions. Although modernised farms use filters to reduce their negative impact, it is still too large. Alternatives already exist for some foods, but due to the production processes and affordability of greater food changes, it is still difficult to talk. We will still have to invest a lot in renewable energy sources and improved energy efficiency. Due to the various restrictions, cleaner sources of electricity are very difficult to reach in our country. In terms of price accessibility in relation to energy generation, therefore, nuclear energy is the most optimal at this time, but we must never neglect other options that would otherwise bring less energy, but also less waste. By reducing emissions and rationalising energy consumption, we will make a strong contribution to reducing environmental impacts. Every year we witness new natural disasters affecting the civilian population as well as the economy. Over the years, farmers face drought, hail, excessive rain, and cold. The insurance costs are higher and more difficult to access each year for our farmers. Today we have a strategy that will enable us to meet the objectives of climate change resolution and environmental protection in Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we agree that this does not address all the challenges we face, but it is important that we take an active approach to solving environmental problems and environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not about a prestigious fight, who proposes anything, it is important that we all contribute together to the preservation of environmental protection, both by individuals and by all political parties. In the Desus Group we will support the motion for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, all present! We have a hard-to-see strategic document that we've been waiting for for for so long, so it's in place to get real validity. Because of its size in the Slovenian National Party, we hope that it will address all the areas that in the past have been pointed out by the left side of the temple of democracy after several unsuccessful attempts, and other areas. The perceptions of certain parliamentary groups as to illegality, non-ambitiousness, seem to us to be unjustifiable. Because of a lot of points, a stroke, it would be a welcome start. The measures presented by the resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy will have to take into account several aspects and so on. The aim of the Republic of Slovenia is to achieve climate neutrality by the year 2050 or 30 years after the circus, when many of us will no longer be here, whether the latter is realistic or not, of course, will show time. Again, we have listened to representatives of certain non-governmental organisations wishing to see this resolution rejected. They expressed concern about energy poverty in the event of the construction of the new nuclear power plant Krška 2 Nuclear Power Plant, which we urgently need. In the Slovenian National Party, we favour Slovenia's planning for the long-term use of nuclear energy, carrying out administrative procedures and preparing documentation for investment decision-making. The strategy already rests on the National Energy and Climate Plan, which will need to be amended in the future. Sad to say, the forest, which is a forest of good, is slowly dying. Even the strokes on Mura are dead because the Austrians keep the water, but we shouldn't have. In the Slovenian National Party we advocate the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Mura, as water should also be used to produce energy. The construction of hydroelectric power plants would thus create dams, where more water would make water easier to manage so that there would not be a flood. We are not surprised, however, that the project has very many opponents between nature and others. We need to reduce energy import dependence, be self-sustaining and move forward with the new development opportunities that we are offered. We need to make the most of the European money allocated to us in terms of investment direction financing, while at the same time we also have our own resources, such as the Climate Change Fund. We are also now carrying out the responsibility of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, where we must strive to implement the Agenda for a Green Agreement. We believe that the objectives of the Long-term Climate Strategy are very ambitious, but at the same time we hope that we will achieve them to the best of our ability if the desire and will on the part of all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I would like to point out that all sectors, departments, are somehow connected and in need of appropriate co-forming, and the most at stake is the area of our transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The views of the SDS Group will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Secretary of State! We are considering the proposal for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050, and greenhouse gas emissions are expected to decrease from 80 to 90 per cent by 2050 in 2005. The motion for a resolution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, states that the world has serious consequences for our environment due to the warming of the atmosphere. The European Union has already adopted some of the most difficult and ambitious climate regulations in the world and has begun to update and transform its economy in line with climate objectives. Between 1990 and 2018, it reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 23%, while the economy increased by 61%. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that the Council should rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions to limit temperatures and achieve zero net CO2 emissions by 2050. In the SDS Group, we agree with the vision that Slovenia will be climate neutral and climate change-resistant society based on sustainable development in 2050. It will deal effectively with energy and natural resources while maintaining a high degree of competitiveness of the low-carbon circular economy. The company will be based on preserved nature, circular economy, renewable and low-carbon energy sources, mobility sustainability and locally produced healthy food. It will be adapted and resistant to the impacts of climate change. Slovenia will be a society in which quality and safety of life will be high and will also take advantage of opportunities in climate change. The transition to a climate neutral society will be inclusive, taking into account the principles of climate justice, the costs and benefits of transition will be distributed fairly, as the most vulnerable groups will also be able to implement mitigation and adaptation measures. In the SDS Group, we agree that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all areas, in transport and energy, in order to reduce emissions by between 90 per cent and 99 per cent and in agriculture by 5 to 22 per cent. The industry is expected to reduce emissions by between 80 per cent and 87 per cent, waste management by between 75 per cent and 83 per cent, and widespread consumption by between 87 per cent and 96 per cent. We are in the SDS Group, and we will always think that something has already been recorded in the documents, and something has been done in practice, and we are glad that the Government has done a lot of work with the first day, despite the epidemic and its associated work, with the emphasis on significant investments in railway modernisation and investment in a more favourable form of mobility, such as cycling and walking. We also agree that most vehicles will be powered by electricity. It will be complemented by renewable or synthetic gases that will be carbon neutral. We also support the objective that as much freight as possible will take place on the railway. Slovenia will continue to promote resources that it has used traditionally and will also create conditions for the use of a wide range of renewable energy sources, such as solar, water, geothermal, wind energy and wood biomass energy. There is no way that we can understand that, above all, some NGOs are so disproportionately opposed to us when we want to use, for example, wind and water. We cannot understand that despite the drastic increase in the use of electricity to minimise fossil fuel consumption, on the other hand, opposition to more electricity is an obstacle. It seems extremely important to us that we are as self-sufficient with electricity as possible and that it is and will be as much coverage as possible, availability, not that it is already happening that young people who want to do so in the home environment by an electric distributor do not get consent due to the lack of available electricity, which is more than sad. It seems very important to us that we abandon the use of coal in line with the timeline and that this will take account of the principle of a just transition. We are more concerned about what it will be like to leave fossil fuels or oil and how we will actually be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Mr. Ambassador, please finish! Mr. Ambassador, time's up!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	successful in replacing for the environment and climate. [[…]] We also support the use of nuclear energy, with which we have only positive experiences, and it would be a shame if it were not in the future, given that we have a wealth of experience and valued domestic nuclear energy experts. We will unanimously support the strategy and the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Dear Member, your time has run out a long time too, we should have finished earlier. I'm asking you to respect the timeline. Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Global climate change is changing the world. In the last two decades, 18 of the hottest years have been recorded in the history of measurement, while extreme weather events such as forest fires, heat waves and floods are becoming more common in Europe and elsewhere. Climate change causes loss of biodiversity, affects the ability of countries to produce food and also causes high costs for the population and the economy. According to the LMŠ, this is one of the most important strategic documents of the last period. The proposed document is intended to pursue the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. Slovenia is expected to move rapidly to renewable energy sources, abandon fossil fuels and reduce the final use of energy. In the LMŠ, we agree with the basic guidelines of the document, such as that it is necessary to give priority to energy efficiency measures before building new capacities, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports in order to maintain at least the current level of security of energy supply, in order to take account of the principle of climate justice when switching to a climate neutral society. We agree with a significant increase in electricity production from renewable sources or with an increase in the flexibility of the electricity system. We are also aware of the fact that one or more alternatives to low-carbon electricity production will need to be selected in order to ensure that all system functions are also provided. The resolution offers only two scenarios of these so-called low-carbon system power plants, which provide energy reserves and network voltage regulation in case of emergencies. The scenario for the construction of a second block of nuclear power plant or a scenario for the use of synthetic natural gas is therefore mentioned. In the LMŠ we note that the scenario for the use of nuclear energy is significantly more fragmented. In our view, in order to avoid later uncertainties and doubts, we should equally develop other and possible other scenarios. Above all, we point out that such an important decision needs to be reached, as is the broad consensus of the professional and interested public. The resolution also mentions the suspension of fossil fuels by 2050 at the latest. In the LMŠ we defend the position that this must happen as soon as possible, of course under the conditions of uninterrupted electricity supply. The resolution recognises local communities as one of the key factors for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, but the document does not give them sufficient concrete support to begin with the preparation of a local climate strategy. In terms of sustainability, the transport sector is one of the most problematic, but the proposed draft sets out insufficiently ambitious, without important measures such as reducing traffic flows and the need to reduce passenger traffic. Transport therefore lacks action priorities. Although the resolution places great emphasis on electricity, we also lack a hierarchy of measures in this segment. Although the agriculture sector contributes 10 per cent of all greenhouse gas emissions, it is expected to contribute at least from all sectors in line with the climate neutrality resolution. By 2050, the agricultural sector has set an emission reduction target of between 5 and 22 per cent. In our view, the objective is too ambitious, as the long-term European vision also shows the way for a low-carbon economy. By 2050, it proposes to reduce emissions in European agriculture between 42% and 49%. In the light of what is said in the LMC, we believe that the resolution is flawed, but we regret that it is too ambitious for certain measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Nice greetings for both government representatives! We have before us a document called the motion for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050, hereinafter, to make it shorter, I will talk about the climate resolution. The first question, of course, is whether we need this document. The answer is simple: we need this document! The second question is whether the document before us is good. Unfortunately, the answer is not such as to be happy. The document before us is unambitious, much less ambitious, as was the resolution on the declaration of the environmental and climate crisis, which you have rejected twice on the right hand side, and the document which, as is usually the case with Slovenian government documents, contains cowardly eggs. Let me explain. If I compare this document with the environmental climate resolution we tabled by the Members on the left side to the middle, it had four objectives. The first objective is quite simple. This is carbon neutrality by 2050, and this is also a European target already adopted. And I must say that the government document we are now discussing is identical. He can't be any different. The second objective was ambition by 2030, in line with the agreement already reached at European Union level. In this document, we note that this objective, which is in fact agreed, of course, and the specifications still have to be made, is very subambicious in this document. Less ambitious than already agreed at European Union level. The third objective is quite simple, whatever we do, let's do it in a socially fair way. Indeed, climate environmental policy can be extremely unsocial if we are not paying attention to this. This document, which is before us, the government document, is addressed, but it does not show real solutions. The fourth question, however, is the question of our responsibility to living beings, especially to animals, even to plants and the environment as a whole. This document also addresses this area, although the Prime Minister of the Government once said that Natura 2000 is, but Natura 2000 is an implementing document, a shot to the knee. So, some things are in there, we'd like them to be more worked out, and unfortunately they're not. We did expect – because this was one of the important reasons that at least part of the MEPs and Members in the middle, and also on the right side, did not support our proposal for an environmental and climate resolution, to declare the climate crisis – that this declaration would be part of this document. Some of the countries that set the example for us have already done so. Finally, the Secretary-General of the United Nations invited us in this direction. Oh, no! Also in this document, to announce in Slovenia – by the way, like in the Vatican, the European Parliament and elsewhere – that we have been unable to resolve this crisis and adapt to it everywhere, even in this document. Of course, that's an insult. What is a cowardly egg, however, is the feeling that we have no environmental minister and two energy ministers in Slovenia at this time. The climate resolution itself should be in line with the NEPN, the National Energy and Climate Programme in Slovenia. That's how these hierarchy papers are designed. That document clearly states that we will decide between two, perhaps even three energy scenarios. It would be right for us to decide even at the referendum. It is interesting that a similar dictatorship was also in that climate resolution that was in the public debate. You can imagine what it's like to get into a public debate something that, in fact then, the professional public, the non-governmental, who looks and says yes, because it's coordinated, and then in some of the cabinets it's written and it's asked us, Members and Members, to decide today that there's only one real scenario -- energy in the way that it's nuclear. To do what we have promised the people today that they will decide that people will choose – this is the background for multi-billion-dollar investments – that people will choose which of the two or three scenarios will be adopted. Therefore, I really urge you not to accept the amendment proposed again by the ruling because we do not have this right. People as a whole must make a decision on the energy future of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 12 May. Seven. 2021. I am putting to the debate Chapter 6.1.4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. The National Energy and Climate Plan has the following dictatorship: “We will explore the possibilities of introducing new nuclear technologies and will carry out all the necessary economic and other professional analyses and activities that will allow for a decision on the construction of a new nuclear power plant by 2027 at the latest”. The climate resolution, which was held in public debate, is six months ago, during a public debate since 31. 8 to 30. 9. The resolution was written in the same way as the NEPN; therefore, to decide on two energy scenarios, perhaps even three. And then – we don't know how – the text that came from us, Members and Members of Parliament, requires us to decide today on the energy future, which must be nuclear, which must be nuclear. Of course, I know what some of you will say – that this is a resolution, that this is a document that is being taken into account, perhaps not. But it is really a decision about the multibillion-dollar future of Slovenia, where every step counts and each step causes costs and also decisions. Therefore, the proposal is to maintain what we agreed in the NEPN, so the proposal is to put two or even three energy scenarios on the table as soon as possible for the future of Slovenia and decide on it by the profession, in particular citizens and citizens. It cannot happen that, as an intruder in an inappropriate document, i.e. in a climate resolution, it imposes a decision on the nuclear future and that Members and Members of Parliament by voting take something that people really have to decide at the referendum. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. On many occasions, it has also been heard that this plan or strategy or resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy is too ambitious. If we just look at what the interest is right now on the part of those who had the most to say about it, at the empty seats in the National Assembly, where we could now discuss the amendment, then we can see that there is no great interest on the part of those. We have had a nuclear power plant Krška for some time in Slovenia, and we also know that it works well, that we have not been faced with any major problems, that it is very clean energy, and I don't know, I can't imagine that we wouldn't have this nuclear power plant. When we talk about how we're going to generate energy, especially electricity, which we know is already very much lacking, what I've already said in my position, and because of the time constraints I haven't been able to complete, it's happening that electricity is too low. That electricity supply is too small for young people to want to build houses in their home environment, in their home village, and they do not get the consent of Elektra so that they can join the electricity network. Then you tell me where they'll join us. Where are they joining us, SD client? Answer that, please. It's already now that we're actually doing it the old way, whichever it is. Many times we also hear a variety of populisms: yes, but we cannot, or we can, run into obstacles. When we want to operate wind power plants, everything is wrong, and we will not operate hydropower plants – everything is wrong. Only in Slovenia, not elsewhere in Europe! Where do we get electricity? Give me this answer so I can make a better decision on your proposal. If I get a really clear answer, then I'll even think about how I'm going to vote on the amendment that I'm discussing. This is the amendment to Chapter 6.1.4, which was voted on by the committee. I am of the opinion that, given that we have a long-standing nuclear power plant in Slovenia, we have experts, highly valued nuclear energy experts, that we can manage a nuclear power plant. I don't know why I should be in the populism style of the Water Act right now, but I don't know what we've heard about plastic before, but I don't know what else is mixed up in this point, why we should give up this energy right now. And once again, where do we get electricity? We'll have cars on electricity, trucks on electricity, we'll see that the climate already has almost every apartment or every house, heat pumps, and the energy system is collapsing. Where are we gonna go, in the Kremensk era? On the one hand, we want to go to electricity, clean energy, renewable energy, on the other hand, we already see that we are in short supply. Are we just going to import energy or what? I really don't understand you. I just don't represent. And then quickly on every matter that the Government is going to do or that we want to do for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the economy, we have an immediate threat with referendums and young people, and I don't know what you're doing and you're trying with some populism right now. So when you give a clear answer to where we will get electricity, if we accept such an amendment, so that in the resolution, in the long term climate strategy, we do not take into account or use nuclear energy, give me one more time, I call on you to explain where we will get electricity. And I will certainly be very pleased to support this amendment and, of course, the whole resolution, which is ambitious enough for my notions and is also understandable to people and is likely to be read by people or will still be. So I would ask if these populisms would stop and we would work for the benefit and well-being of the people, for the good of the Slovenian economy, which will still need electricity in some way. And that it also moves in the field of wind power plants forward and in photovoltaics, because we know that we have already encountered many problems, and in the construction of small hydro power plants we know what bureaucratic obstacles the investor encounters and so on. In short, let's get real and move on with the developed world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Because, Commissioner, when you mentioned the SD, you probably meant Dejan jeedan or Bojano Muršič, but let me come by and explain everything to you. I'm not talking about the nuclear or non-nuclear future at all. In fact, this cannot be decided by a document called a climate resolution because we have other documents that decide on it. The climate resolution is, in fact, an environmental document in which a plantation occurred. The possibility of alternatives has been withdrawn, although an agreement has been reached in Slovenia since 2018, we expect that the path to a decision on the long-term use of nuclear energy through public decision-making will be comprehensive and will include an open debate related to risks, possible alternatives and then, say, a decision. And the climate resolution is not really a suitable document to decide on one, the other or the third energy future of Slovenia. That's what I'm trying to tell you. At the same time, the amendment you are trying to impose on us is written in this way. It is simply not a suitable document to make a decision, the decision that people should make in some subtly way in this national assembly in an inappropriate document. Now 45 or 48 Members cannot make decisions on the nuclear future if people have to. And that's the resentment when we say that it actually feels like there are two energy ministers in the country, not one environmental one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	President, thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposed SD amendment and the outcome of the vote on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space was contrary to the guidelines of the National Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Slovenia, which set guidelines for energy development by 2040. Moreover, the explanation given by the amendment's proposer is misleading and untrue and I will tell you to everyone, my fellow Members. I talked to experts and they helped me prepare this position or explanation for the amendment. Proposal for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia until 2050, endorsed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 21. 4. It follows fully the guidance of the comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Slovenia, which set guidelines for energy development by 2040. In fact, both the Republic of Slovenia’s National Energy and Climate Plan and the Resolution on Slovenia’s Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050 are based on the same professional basis, the exact energy balance drawn up by the Energy Efficiency Centre in cooperation with partners. It is therefore the same starting point with the same guidelines for energy development. The proposal for a resolution on Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050 is therefore not based on the SD amendment proposal, as it contains the same guidelines as the National Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Slovenia. This resolution contains both scenarios such as the National Energy and Climate Plan and these scenarios are based on the same professional backgrounds that were prepared by 2050. The resolution also follows the National Energy and Climate Plan, which established that a decision on the construction of a new nuclear power plant should be taken by 2027. The deletion of that indent means the elimination of the nuclear scenario, which is contrary to the National Energy and Climate Plan and also contrary to the professional basis of the resolution. It also implies a choice of the gas scenario, which in fact means that it is contrary to the National Energy and Climate Plan and the environmental assessment of this. Slovenia has also based its resolution on the National Energy and Climate Plan on the basis that the final decision on the assessment, choice of an appropriate scenario will also be based on the development of technologies and social development in the world, but further steps are needed to verify the strengths and feasibility of each scenario, which makes the fourth indent of paragraph 6 of Chapter 6.1.4 of the Resolution on Slovenia’s Long-term Climate Strategy necessary by 2050. Otherwise, the resolution must be further peer-reviewed, as it in fact constitutes an excessive deviation from the National Energy and Climate Plan, which has been peer-reviewed and has rightly provided guidance for the development of energy with two scenarios, including nuclear. Energy development is no longer only linked to energy self-sufficiency and the competitiveness of society, but is one of the most important factors in achieving environmental sustainability, particularly in the light of climate change. The explanation of the SD amendment, which favoured the adoption by the Committee of an amendment to delete the fourth indent of paragraph 6 of Chapter 6.1.4 of the resolution, also sets out misleading reasons for the broader social consensus, which is one of the key reasons for the deletion of the said indent. The integration and integration of the public in decision-making on the further development of nuclear energy for Slovenia has been multi-layered, both in the National Energy and Climate Plan and in the Resolution on Slovenia’s Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050. The national energy and climate plan has also been peer-reviewed, through CPVO and cross-border assessment. The direction of long-term use of nuclear energy was thus carried out in accordance with Slovenian legislation and in accordance with the Aarhus and EFTA Convention through a comprehensive strategic assessment of environmental impacts. The resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia was also included in the general public debate until 2000 and it is therefore inappropriate to say that the decision on the energy direction of the Republic of Slovenia was not included in the broader public debate and in the search for the best solutions. Let me also recall that the search for the most appropriate energy direction in implementation has been in place since 2009, with respect to the preparation of the National Energy Programme. The national energy programme was also peer-reviewed by the CPVU and the cross-border consultation in which a scenario with the construction of a new nuclear power plant was assessed as the most appropriate scenario. The national energy programme, due to the change of government, was not adopted; the preparation of the energy strategy continued with the ECS, which also had in the scenario the construction of a new nuclear power plant, which was also addressed from a public point of view in public affairs. Over the past ten years, the strategy for development and energy has been constantly in public consultation and cooperation and has been peer reviewed. The fourth indent of the sixth paragraph of Chapter 6.1.4 of the resolution under consideration is, therefore, the continuation of the direction, in accordance with the scenario set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan, and the necessary measure is to continue the wider society and the environmental assessment of whether the nuclear scenario is an appropriate choice for the Republic of Slovenia. Your Honor, I read this to you from experts, not from Dusan Šiška – from experts! And here, when my colleague Dejan comes to me and says that 48 Members will decide on something – look, I think it was read right and it was recorded. Please, Dean, I respect you. Think again about the amendment you put in. But I'm not going to go into those words when my friend Boris said that we're best off going to Ajdovsko, Scotland or Postojna Cave. Just, guys, be aware, then you'll have no more phones and laptops in front of you, and you'll lift your hands, no more pressure on the cable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Replica Dejan Židan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you, Member, I respect you too, so we are alike here. And let me read three paragraphs on my own, after all, because I have to respond to what you've written and read. The National Energy and Climate Plan, which is the basis – NEPN – is the basis, does it not, states, “We will explore the possibilities of introducing new nuclear technologies and will carry out all the necessary economic and other professional analyses and activities that will allow for a decision on the construction of a new nuclear power plant by 2027 at the latest”. So it says in the NEPN, which is a roof document, 300 pages, if I recall correctly, a lot of the energy of experts invested. In the amendment proposal you have made now, I would ask that if you listen, you will see that this is written in a completely different way. I wouldn't mind writing as much as a document that should be aligned with the climate document. It no longer says, "we will study" but "in the field of nuclear energy Slovenia plans long-term use of nuclear energy and to this end implements administrative procedures and documentation for investment decision-making". Then I will also read from the third document that we received from all Members and all Members of the environmental NGOs – I think we got it yesterday – Point 8, “We assume that the long-term climate strategy has been in public debate since 31. 8. 2020 to 30. 9. 2020,” – that is, a month – »since it has been six months. At the time, the text of the strategy envisaged two scenarios for the energy future of Slovenia and the current document foresees only a nuclear energy scenario." If the amendment is accepted, of course. “This means that the public and other professional bodies have not had the opportunity to take part in the decision on the energy future of Slovenia”. And so on. What do I have to tell you? I want to tell you that I am also aware that we must ensure a high level of energy adequacy – I think the target is around 85 per cent – I am aware that we have different scenarios of options, and I suppose we will also decide this as a wider society based on expert opinions and analyses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one has the word Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, all of them have a nice greeting! I have been alone for so long in the National Assembly that I have been very interested in monitoring, even though I come from Posavje, which applies to the second pillar of energy in Slovenia, how and how and by what timetable they were accepted or talked about – the Energy Concept of Slovenia and the National Energy and Climate Plan. The National Energy and Climate Plan has been discussed for a long time, too long, and was adopted quietly at one of the last meetings of the Charles Government. So much for how to speak publicly and also make public decisions. When Marjan Sarec had already thrown his rifle into the corn, he probably adopted, or his government had adopted, at one of the meetings without discussion, the National Energy and Climate Plan, which is the right thing to finally accept, but so much about how everything must be public. On the other hand, it was just said about expert opinions. Nuclear energy has been discussed since the construction of the first block in Krška, but almost nothing new has changed except that science has moved forward, that the security system has progressed both in Slovenia and abroad. Such expert opinions by the right experts are enough, but they do not hope to face publicly those who are like non-governmental professionals and frighten the Slovenes by what will happen if anyone dares to think about another block at all, and not only when, in fact, I hope, start building this second block. But the fact is, we urgently need a second block. Nuclear energy is a renewable source of energy, we all know that, and all those who talk so much about renewable energy are forgetting that unfortunately we are now too dependent on the thermal power plant in Scotland. I, too, think that this amendment or the amendment at the committee's own meeting came from this very point of view: let's talk about nuclear energy and let's leave TES alone. Let's not talk about dirty energy, but we're working on a problematic renewable energy source. In addition to those enthusiasts who dream of how great it is and how it is to be able to use wind or solar energy in Slovenia, as well as hydropower to save Slovenia's energy potential or Slovenian energy supply, I will put it on my soul, or on my heart, or into my head to read what is possible. If we were building everything with solar panels, if the wind worked much more than the work, if we were building all our tributaries of at least the biggest rivers, we wouldn't still be self-sustaining. But look at the fraction! For example, when we talk about hydro power plants in Central Sava, i.e. hydropower, once again those who are in principle renewables are against; how this will usurp our beautiful space. In short, they're against solar panels, against building wind power plants because I don't know everything, and from looking at birds to looking at birds, I don't know who can have their own shelters under wind power plants, in Slovakia or anywhere else – we shouldn't do that in Slovenia. And they're the same against hydropower. In short, they are like a traditional custom — and we know about which cross-sections are more cautious — against. In short, the second block of the nuclear power plant in Krk is urgently needed and I speak like someone coming from Posavje and as someone who I know quite well when I also talk to experts about terawatt, megawatt or other war hours. But what's interesting is, now in 2021, and I'm personally monitoring what's going on in Germany, when Chancellor Angela Merkel, an ex, said overnight that no, we're not going to go to the nuclear power plant, we're going to build or at least give more support to thermal power plants. Just look at the electricity prices in Germany! Germany is already seriously considering whether this would fail – I hope – to replace the system with a new work. Prices on global electricity markets are brutal. What happened only in the last three, four months on the world markets shows that we would need a second block today; and if we had a second block today, we could also use electricity sales to neighbouring countries where they have even more problems with energy supply than we have in Slovenia. In addition, we need a second block because we know that TES does not last forever or that it costs us huge millions each year just to maintain it and do what it does. However, there will be no mistake, I am not against the TEC, we absolutely need it, because the price from the thermal power plant Šostjanj is still much cheaper than it is for electricity to be purchased on global markets. But if we give together what we have, we have to think about what we want. And once again, I can and I'm happy to have more solar power plants, we opened one bigger solar power plant last week, and we have wind power plants, which are the very ones that are against everything, against having more hydropower plants. Once again, I come from Posavje alone, I live 200 meters from one hydropower plant, I know the situation of certain hydropower plants in Central Sava, and I will not come down here to the area whether Mura yes or not, why Mura in Austria allows the construction of hydro power plants, and Mura in Slovenia is not able to do any hydropower plant. In short, we need renewable resources and a nuclear power plant first block, and I hope that there is a second block that is a renewable source as soon as possible. At the same time, we need to be very smart about what we're going to do with the Chestnut thermal power plant. I'm not against immediate closure, if you've decided to build it too expensively, let's be aware that we won't be too expensive and too quick to close it. In short, I will support the amendment itself, which follows only what is stated in the National Energy and Climate Plan, and this is that the nuclear future is one of those futures that energy Slovenia needs in line with energy self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I am not an enemy of nuclear energy so that we do not get the wrong idea, but I am opposed to the fact that the initial administrative procedures for the construction of the second block of nuclear power are decided as follows, just before the summer at a 50-point meeting, with a certain appendix to the resolution. That's not how this thing works. Just two days ago, an article was published in the magazine Foreing Affairs, which currently appears to be building nukes around the world. In Georgia, the U.S. state, they were building a nuclear plant or building a nuclear plant with two reactors, estimated at EUR 14 billion, completed in 2016 and 2017 respectively. In 2021, the price has not yet been completed, and its price has risen from 14 billion to 25 billion. That's how it happens if things don't run transparently and if it's decided like this, just under the table. They have similar experience in France, they have similar experience in Finland and you find links there to make things happen in China and elsewhere in the world. In short, what I'm trying to say is that the new block of nuclear power must not be built the way the sixth block of TER 6 was built. It is necessary to keep things transparent and to guide things through public debate. I will not support the amendment because it seems to me that this is the way to approach it; it is said that administrative procedures are being initiated without a serious public debate being held on this issue. I myself am an absolute advocate of carbon, because I think that whatever reality you describe about Slovenian energy needs, after energy and so on, we can no longer blind ourselves in any way to the fact that climate change is not a threat and that it is not a reality that threatens us. If you are looking at the weather picture right now around the world, you will see what is happening in the North Course, what is happening in the West of Canada, and in the end we also have a hot wave in Ljubljana, Slovenia and Europe, which is one of the worst in recent years. You know that this will mean enormous damage in agriculture in the future, that damage will occur on buildings due to floods and the like, and that people, not only biodiversity and nature, will bear the burden of this, too, people will feel it on their skin. I therefore resent this resolution's lack of ambition, as I have described earlier. One of the main things we would have done by 2030 if this amendment had been adopted or if the SD amendment had not been adopted on the Committee for the last time would in fact have been that the nuclear future had already been cut or drawn up here, while the resolution was in no serious way coping with the climate crisis. We would reduce greenhouse gas footprints by 36% by 2030, which is less than two-thirds of what is required by a common European target of 55%. And the resolution itself says that further sectoral reviews and measures will be needed to capture this European common objective, and in no way do we understand how this is supposed to happen. In agriculture, greenhouse gas emissions are expected to decrease by only one percent by 2030. In transport, they would decrease by about 12% by 2030, and we need to know that traffic is one of the largest greenhouse gas emitters in Slovenia, about 47% of all greenhouse gases coming from transport. You're going to reduce this by about 10 percent in ten years. It is similar in the construction of renewable energy sources. Their growth would be 0.7 per cent per year over the next ten years. This is not a serious response to the crisis, and in this way the three new blocks of the nuclear power plant cannot solve this crisis. We can't pretend that everything can stay the same. We're gonna have to change the way we travel. To start by putting trucks on trains. There will not be enough new nuclear reactors and electric cars to discuss how to enable people to drive to work with a significantly smaller carbon footprint. Remember, before he took the car to the road, he'd already given away half of his greenhouse gases. She gave them up to build this car. And we cannot pretend that this crisis is not that we can delay the resolution after 2030 or 2040, which is what this resolution is doing. In this sense, I deny the legitimacy of the answer you are giving, which is that a nuclear power plant, now this or a new block of nuclear power, can miraculously solve because it will not. This is the end of it, I mentioned earlier this article from Foreign Affairs, which is also the emphasis of this article, that nuclear energy, of course, can help with the decarbonisation, can compensate for the loss of closed thermo-actors, but it is not a magic wand that we will wave and the problems will be solved. I repeat, half of the greenhouse gases in Slovenia come from transport. In agriculture, which is also one of the important emitters, you reduce by one percent. The growth of renewable energy sources is 0.7% per year by 2030, with the whole world shouting that this is a decisive decade in which we will or will not achieve an adequate reduction in greenhouse gases so that temperatures do not rise by more than a half in this century. This degree and a half you know why it is – because within this framework, global climate science still assumes that if temperatures do not rise by more than one and a half, we can roughly expect our ecosystems to remain predictable and manageable, as they have been so far. We're used to living on a planet where weather is about predictable, where it doesn't happen exactly 50 degrees in the north of Canada. But we've already started to get out of this world, and we're already seeing the outline of the future that we're going to live in, and the billions of damage that these phenomena are causing. And don't think anyone can get away with it. No country, no island in the world will remain immune unless we start here and now seriously prepare and face this crisis that is threatening us. I see it as a key task of my own, for example, generations. We will live or expect to live actively for at least the next 30 years, and I would not want to be responsible before our apprentices for wasting or significantly reducing the quality of life on this planet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, climate change is happening and will have consequences for future generations even if we decide today not to release any more greenhouse gas into the environment. The climate strategy, which of course we are dealing with, is addressing a number of measures and, of course, I am deeply concerned that the main culprits are in the sectoral sense of transport and agriculture. In this sense, we will have to improve our travel habits, change our way of working and also our lives. I wish that all the trucks that drive on our roads could be put on the railways, but our railways, even when they are restored, will allow the transfer of only 10 percent of the trucks from the roads to the railways and will therefore need one thought jump, how we will produce something, where we will produce it. We will also have to tax things that come a thousand or two thousand kilometers away and thus create local, domestic production. There are many demands and problems, of course. I have already pointed out in the debate that if we wanted to replace this energy we use in transport with electricity, we would need ten nuclear power plants right now. Of course, when we realize how great the needs are, what measures are needed to unlock these issues, then we see that we need to approach these problems in some way; hence, in order to reduce the need for such travels, to find new ways of working to promote locally produced food, not only food in terms of food security, but also to promote domestic production and the economy. We see that digitalisation and informing society in this light are very helpful in transforming all leading companies into some kind of technological silence. This is what we see first in the field of energy and banking, where all these companies are somehow merging, concentrating and acting as modern digital companies. On our part or in Parliament, we must also call on all these companies to start this transformation in the field of energy, because otherwise this will simply not work. We need to develop smart networks, we need to develop people to be active customers. We need to enable people in settlements to participate in electricity production as well. We know that photovoltaics thrive mainly on individual facilities, while residents living in multi-housing buildings and blocks are deprived of their cooperation for objective reasons, despite the fact that they are paying contributions to the promotion of renewable energy sources. However, they are deprived for one simple reason, because they need to be given an appropriate consensus for the installation of photovoltaic modules, which is virtually impossible to reach in multi-housing facilities. Therefore, in the SAB, we put forward a proposal under another law, an amendment, to encourage community self-sustainment, which is useful in terms of the stability of the network, because then more people are somehow cooperating and reducing these fluctuations in the network. The other sector, which needs to be addressed again in this respect in addition to the energy sector, is the transport sector. We need to promote public transport. We know that the card that allows free driving in cross-country passenger traffic has achieved remarkable success, more than 160 000 users are currently using it. And this good practice, which we have recognised in the SAB, must somehow be brought to the cities. At the same time, we must give a great appeal and attention to young people, who must be involved in future planning, because this is a matter that is particularly gloating to them. And it is right that we invite young people, that their voice be heard, that it will be taken into account, and that they themselves, on the basis of the knowledge of the profession and techniques, will tell them what they want and what they expect. Here I also appeal, because I am an engineer by profession, that students of technical professions become more actively involved in initiatives, in civil society, so that their voice will also be heard. Somehow I feel that political participation among students of technical professions is neglected, which is of course a shame. But as for this amendment, in the SAB, I have already said in my position, we would like someone to say clearly that we can't say otherwise than nuclear energy of this energy, so that the profession clearly states that there is no other way of producing electricity with nuclear energy, and then they have to make this decision because it's a strategic decision whether Slovenia will be a nuclear power plant or not, then it's actually a decision on people. [[…]] However, it is appropriate to present concrete and correct facts to people. It is also right that representatives of civil society who oppose any measure of production of any energy - whether it is the sun, wind or nuclear or whatever - to say what an alternative is. This has not yet been heard in this national assembly, and we feel that this is harmful. The government and the ministry should also make clear, or on the basis of the profession, what the future is, what the options are. We have just said that we regret that the decision that we voted on the committee is essentially to get out, that it is now re-emerging, but this decision could only occur once the profession has clearly, unambiguously, stated what our future is, and then it should be confirmed by the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues also representatives of the Ministry! The fact is that Slovenia needs an ambitious resolution on Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy. We have before us a strategic document with sectoral objectives, which you colleagues have recently presented well. It seems important to me that the resolution follows the commitments of the Paris Agreement. This seems extremely important to me, so one of the main objectives of the Slovenian Climate Strategy is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, a net zero greenhouse gas emissions. However, how will we achieve this, then they are divided into sectors of measures likely to be included by the sectors on the basis of a good resolution. I am almost certain that the sectors will include this, not on the basis of the calls of our Members and Members, but on the basis of a well-prepared resolution, which is well-prepared, and, of course, as a result, down sectors. There has been a lot of talk, which is more friendly, which is not more friendly, and I want to touch that Slovenia has fallen somewhat asleep in this area over the past 10, 20 years. We could already have good rail connections with fast trains that are perhaps more friendly, so friendly that freight transport, which is one of the transport sector's measures, could also be diverted to the railway. However, as long as we do not have railway infrastructure in Slovenia regulated, as long as we are also in this House talking about whether it is appropriate, meaningful construction of a second track to the port of Koper, it seems to me that we do not all have a resolution on the long-term climate strategy of Slovenia together. Of course, the focus is on the effectiveness of this transport or I will say rail transport. But we all know more than once, if you're going from Ljubljana to New City, you need two hours on a train. This means that first of all, many people still drive diesel devices, which is not best from the point of view of the environment, and a long period of time. It is necessary to approach from the outset in order to be able to say that we are good in the sector. It has been said that effective public passenger transport is needed, much the same if you travel somewhere, of course, you expect to travel with a good, technologically completed, sophisticated public passenger transport, not with some passenger traffic that needs fossil fuel and thus has an even greater impact on the environment, while at the same time prolonging this journey. Of course, one of the measures in the sector is the establishment of a modern rail network. Here I must commend Minister Vrtovac, who is in fact the first of the ministers to carry this out during his term of office. Then the promotion of vehicle busy car Charing. I support him very much. Because simply, if we are not going to start with a car Charing or some modern form of transport, including public passenger transport, then we have done nothing. Then we will still have strong pressure, traffic spikes in Ljubljana and, of course, things in this area will certainly not improve with regard to the carbon footprint. I am also interested in the action in the transport sector to reduce the need for day-to-day mobility and to promote cycling and walking. I'm very supportive of that myself. I wish that the need for every mobility could be reduced, which means not least more work from home, which we witnessed at the time of the crown, but probably everyone is returning to their jobs now. I think we could see what that means, at the time of the crown, how we finally had a beautiful blue sky even because there was no air traffic. It was said or heard that the main contaminants were transport and agriculture and freight transport was exposed. I think and I am sure that there are also many articles on this subject that I have read that aircraft are also a major polluter of our climate, the entire ozone. It seems to me that in this area too we need to see why we need so many planes, air transports, whether we really have to travel the whole world for the time of our lives, or how we can afford certain destinations. What was interesting to me was in the energy supply sector. I listened to what was better, whether nuclear energy was acceptable or not. And yet it's abandoning the use of coal, which I think has proved to be true. I just read the article that TES 6 is just before bankruptcy, says before bankruptcy. This is now the latest news on the MMC portal. Increasing electricity consumption from renewable energy sources; solar power plant, photovoltaics, was exposed. I can also say that I see this resolution as an invitation to businesses to prepare the necessary measures to guide Slovenia by 2050. If I just look at it, I'm going to say, photovoltaics or solar energy that may have installed individual houses is the problem where to store this energy during the day so that you can use that energy at night or when there is no sun. When the sun is, this energy is too much, some return it to the public network or have any contracts. But in order to be able to talk really about some renewable energy sources, it seems very important to me that this solar energy accumulates during the day, I don't know, into some batteries – I don't think we have that much development yet – I don't know how this is foreign, because I really don't have that much international follow-up. But I know there's one possibility. When I was in a company, they discussed that it might be possible to accumulate this energy in electric cars during the day, and then with the help of a battery in an electric car, they could practically use it overnight for the operation of a family home or a family apartment. I think it's in this area, so I said to look at this as some kind of call to businesses to start developing these things or they're already developed to get to people, to us, to consumers or to users. I think this progress in this area is so jumpy that I can be optimistic that Slovenia will achieve its objectives, as I said, to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't intend to come by first, but I listened to the debate, and I think it might be appropriate to point out some things or point them out. I am sorry that there is no longer a colleague of Luke the Moon present, who, of course, has warned about some things, on the one hand, and on the other hand he has not said any more about the alternative or how some things can be resolved differently. Somehow he pointed out that the resolution was not ambitious enough. You know, it's always the easiest thing to say is that something isn't ambitious, and I always ask if a matter is not ambitious enough or maybe it's not real on the other hand. We can be very pompous, we can write this and that and the third, but it is important whether we remain real and the reality is that we must follow in a document as important as this. Of course, it is important that we preserve the environment, to look at how we will generate as much energy as possible with some renewable energy sources, but, on the other hand, I always wonder what we are prepared to do as a society. You know, the easiest thing to say is, we don't want that, we don't want that, I don't know, one doesn't want to expand the nuclear power plant, some are against, I don't know, thermal power plants, hydro power plants, one with windmills, but, that's all nice and right, right, it's a good thing against, but it's important where we get it. You know, where we're gonna take it. I remember more times, and perhaps here I would like to point out, the former Yugoslavia, when it was President of the Presidency of Milka Planinc. I don't know if you remember, since 1983, 1984, energy reductions. We were out of electricity a few hours a day. Then the heating of the premises in public buildings, such as the apartments, was 19 degrees. Look, these were the times that this country had experienced, and we certainly know what it was like back then. Today, however, we are faced with another challenge, but what we are ready to do is to reduce transport and agriculture in an environment of dangerous greenhouse gases and as the largest contaminants. Before that, my colleague Luka Mesec said that he was not opposed to nuclear energy, but he gave an example of how one thing was built in a transparent way, I think, in the United States, if I'm not mistaken. See, transparency or lack of transparency should not be the reason for us to give up some form of energy sources. We have to solve this another way. That some matter is being built and our transparency and where money goes and such a project is being auctioned is another problem that we need to solve. Let me also remind you of the sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. This has been our largest energy investment in this millennium, the biggest energy investment, and I think I have read these days that it is before bankruptcy. I mean, these things, that's the problem! That's the problem, and that's not enough talk. Last but not least, we had an investigative committee on the subject of TEŠ 6, which found some important conclusions, and nothing happened. Of course, if we have projects like this, we can always look everywhere or we are afraid of danger, but on the other hand, we do nothing to make the matter come to an end and only those who, in any way, were untransparently spending our money or who were responsible for the theft of property. I am so absolutely in favour of protecting our environment, that we are careful how we leave it to our craftsmen, but at the same time also a call to young generations, what we are ready to do to have less greenhouse gases. What are we capable of giving up? That's it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Sorry, your time is up. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The debate on what to do to essentially maintain a high level of energy self-sufficiency after 2050 is extremely important. We all know that, in fact, the first block of nuclear power has, as far as I know, not been able to extend this period, but I hope that we will succeed. We are all aware that we must move rapidly away from fossil fuels. We are all aware that we do not yet have the main problem of some renewable energy sources, this is storage, although in this case Slovenian science is progressing very quickly. We are all aware that we are extremely modest in an important measure, these are so-called megawatts; so what to do to make energy consume less and that we have great capacity in front of us. Well, the stranger's a lot. This is probably what we all agree on in the National Assembly, and that is not the issue. This was probably why those who know much more about the future of energy say two things. First, have several scenarios available, and secondly, every ten years, check every five years to see if the forecasts you have are good, because the environment around you is changing and technologies are progressing very quickly. Even to this point, I think we're quite in agreement. What, in fact, one of the Members warned me very well, we had cases of imported or poorly managed investments in Slovenia. We can also look for who the individual investment started first in the papers and so on, but I think this will all be looked for somewhere else. But the experience must continue. The experience is that decisions must be made in full transparency. And if the first step of the decision is fully transparent, it is more likely that the transparent project will also be completed at all risks. However, there are risks because, in essence, technologies will continue to change and are updated and so on. This is essentially the problem of this side of Parliament. We have all the time in our heads that we have agreed that in some broader debate we will decide between two or even three energy scenarios. Another time. The right decision is subject to the so-called energy and not environmental papers and resolutions. Thirdly, the document before us is essentially different, at least now as was the case when the public debate took place. He's different. And the people and the profession were assigned to a different document. The question before us is essentially a terrible one: why, at a time when we have a climate resolution that is very important to us, we need to focus on whether today the National Assembly will decide on the nuclear or non-nuclear future. As a matter of fact, this document must not be decided by the National Assembly at all. So let's be clear that no one will think that I'm some kind of enemy of nuclear or self-sufficient to some degree, 85 percent. It is clear to me that we must do this for several reasons. However, the adoption process itself must in fact be transparent. Today, instead of discussing why this document is so unambitious, why the most important and expensive measures are being pushed forward in the year 2040 and later, why such a document is less ambitious by 2030 than the decisions already taken at European Union level to discuss why it is so unambitious where large releases are in fact, it is essentially road transport. In order to discuss whether they are mad as a CO2 warehouse, they need to take a smaller step in other areas. We are caught in the trap of discussing something that we should not discuss today. This is not a suitable document to take a decision on one, the other or the third energy scenario; and that is my objection. The Minister, who is not in charge of energy, sends a State Secretary to everyone in the National Assembly and then we talk about a document that should not be energy, because we have an energy minister in fact in Slovenia and he is the holder of energy documents. Finally, all this resolution, which is too ambitious, is important, reduced to the debate on the energy future of Slovenia. That's really wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Yeah, look! It's interesting what's going on with us. We wouldn't have nuclear energy because Chernobyl could happen, we wouldn't have a thermal power plant because it pollutes air, we wouldn't have a hydro power plant because it destroys river life, and we wouldn't have wind power plants because they kill birds. And solar power plants are just for the day. Oh, God, don't let the power run out! Everyone in the luft – and shouting and screaming. That's why I suggest we mount the generators on our bikes, because that's how we like to cycle. There'll be extra energy on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 49th item of the agenda – INTERMEDIATE REPORT ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CARRIAGE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONERS IN THE FIELD OF BUILDING AND MANAGEMENT WITH MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND HEALTH IN THE GENERAL HOSPITAL OF DR. FRANCE DERGANCE NOVA GORICA. The interim report was presented to the Council by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. In order to further explain the interim report, I give the floor to the President of the Investigative Commission of Magi. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! With the presentation of the Interim Report on the responsibilities of public officials in the Children's Heart Surgery Programme last July, the Commission of Inquiry followed up its work with a second part of the parliamentary investigation, namely the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The interim report, which we are considering today, thus presents the irregular, non-transparent and illegally overpaid purchases identified through the investigation of the hospital materials obtained and the hearings of witnesses who participated in the execution of public procurement contracts for the purchase of hip braces from 2007 until the end of 2018 at the General Hospital, Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. Due to the width of the subject-matter of the investigation and the related set of evidence, this time the Commission of Inquiry focused first on the investigation of public procurement of hipded endoprosthesis in that Novogori hospital, but I must mention that the Commission is continuing its work with the investigation of public contracts at the Ortopeda Hospital of Valdoltra, where we are finding in fact already known practices or similar infringements of legislation. The irregularities identified by the hospital's parliamentary investigations during these months confirm a well-known fact, namely that changes to the law, which also regulates public procurement of medical equipment and medical material, are necessary. We have therefore included the infringements and irregularities found in the preparation of the interim report and have also used them as a basis for proposals for legislative amendments, a more specific law on public procurement in the field of procurement of medical equipment and medical material. The latter is also contained in the referral decision, which we are now giving to confirm to the National Assembly at the end of the report under consideration. Allow me, however, to touch first on the irregularities and non-transparent treatment of public finances that we have identified in the course of the investigation and are summarized in the 30 points of the essential findings of the interim report and show that such behaviour of hospitals actually allows for unregulated legislation at present. The fact is that in the General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica procurement procedures have been a major problem for many years. The 2004 audit report of the Court of Auditors shows that the public authority in question committed a breach of the law or acted in contravention of the Public Procurement Act and the domestic act in force at that time in 2002. The 2004 public procurement regulation is intended to help to ensure the legality of the implementation of public service contracts, but the findings of the parliamentary inquiry commission show that this has not been the case and that the undertaking of the hospital has not been implemented by the Commission until the end of 2018, at least during the 2007 period under investigation. A number of irregularities in the operation of the hospital later revealed the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Health, which took place in the hospital in 2014. The Commission therefore notes that, despite supervision and warning since 2002, violations of public procurement have taken place 14 years later and that the management of the institution has not regulated these procedures in such a way as to ensure that the purchases at the hospital are lawfully carried out. In a more detailed review of the material obtained and the hearing of the witnesses involved in the proceedings under investigation, the Commission finds violations of the applicable legislation, namely the covered Public Procurement Act 2 and subsequently the current Public Procurement Act 3. In the individual proceedings received, the Commission of Inquiry also finds the suspicion of infringements of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. As a result of the unregulated internal act, the Commission also finds the suspicion of infringements by the statute of the institution of certain tasks. In the procedures examined, the role of the head of the hospital was contested as long as Marjetka Štefančič held the post. Despite the lack of adequate expertise, the documents examined show that it was also signed as the head of the pharmacy under the annexes to the tenders containing the technical specification for the selection of the material. Some of the Witnesses interviewed were also confirmed in their testimony. With regard to the role of Marjetka Štefančič and later her daughters Jane Štefančič, as head of the pharmacy in public procurement procedures, their relationship with one of the major drug suppliers to the hospital in question is particularly controversial. It is Gopharm, d.o.o., in which she was and is also as director of the company employed daughter or sister of Tadeja Štefančič. The fact that this company was, on average, a business success at the Novogorica hospital at the time of the decision of the mother and later of the sister shows a conflict of interest and suspicion of infringements of Articles 37 and 38 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In view of their situation and the relative relationship, the latter were obliged to be excluded from the procurement procedures and have not done so. In the light of the later provisions adopted by the JJN-3, such behaviour also suggests a suspicion of a violation of Article 91 of this Act, which refers to the prevention of conflicts of interest. Marjetka Štefančič was also the only participant in the public procurement procedures of the hospital, which did not even sign a declaration of incompatibilities, although according to the job and its participation in these procedures after the internal act of the hospital. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission therefore notes that Marjetka Štefančič, as the then head of the hospital pharmacy, is objectively responsible, as she did not ensure in procurement procedures and purchase of medical equipment and material to prevent suspicions of conflicts of interest in order to prevent violations of the provisions of the ZJN-3 and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In the public procurement investigation procedures, there were catalogue numbers with precise descriptions of individual sets of medical material, which were directly summarised from the catalogue of the manufacturer selected later. The latter point to the privilege of a particular tenderer and thereby to a violation of Article 9 of ZJN-2 and later of Article 7 of ZJN-3. Finally, it is not negligible in this respect that this company was Primsel, d.o.o., with which the contract was concluded, also with the head of the Marjetka Štefančič Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital, one and the only exclusive supplier of hip braces of the manufacturer Lima in the investigated New York hospital. On the basis of the statements made by the witnesses heard, Marjetka Štefančič, the head of the pharmacy, should also be the person who advocated such practice. The fact that this practice is also controversial in view of the position of the State Audit Commission has also been pointed out by the management of the institution is reflected in the adopted letter, which is also available to the parliamentary investigative committee. The investigation showed that it could be blamed for the purchase of such medical equipment and medical material to the hospital’s management on a case-by-case basis, since the directors of the institution have been repeatedly warned about the illegality and irregularities of procurement procedures during these years and have done nothing to eliminate them. In spite of all the recommendations and warnings, not least by the Ministry of Health in the context of the administrative supervision carried out, neither was an internal act adopted or corrected, which would clearly lay down the legal basis for the conduct and execution of purchases at the hospital, and would specify the competences of the participants in these proceedings. The Parliamentary Investigative Commission therefore notes the suspicion of the objective political responsibilities of the former hospital directors as responsible holders of public functions, as there has also been a lack of transparency in the use of public money as a result of their behaviour. The analysis carried out in the framework of the parliamentary investigation showed that prices for the same types of medical material of the same manufacturer in the hospital were overpaid up to 75 per cent compared to others, with the fact that other hospitals of the same manufacturer’s hip prosthetics were purchased directly from the manufacturer, only in the Novogor hospital were purchased from intermediaries or suppliers, i.e. Primsel, d.o.o., with which the contract was concluded in cooperation with the then head of the hospital pharmacy Marjetka Štefančič. In this part, the Investigative Commission recalls the disputed practice of two former hospital directors who agreed to work outside the hospital because they were co-owners of the Joint Undertaking. In the case of individual invitations to tender, the Commission further notes that the hospital did not have any alerts on the opening of tenders and therefore in these cases there is a suspicion of a violation of Article 76 of the ZJN-2 and Article 80 of the later applicable UNJN-3, which lays down how the opening of tenders received in the procurement procedure should be carried out. Contrary to the legislation, an annex was made which was of no value or quantity, in violation of the existing framework agreements in force under the procedures. We also note that the status of the merger that they had with the intermediary in the hospital did not contain all the mandatory elements that they should have, under the applicable legislation, but was listed only in one article of the agreements concluded. Non-transparent purchases of medical equipment and medical material were also made in the hospital via B orders for which there is no need to carry out the procurement procedure under law. That the public procurement proceedings were contrary to the law in force, however, they also show the judgments of the courts which imposed the payment of fines on the hospitals and the authorities of that time. As a result of the illegal procurement procedures, 11 court proceedings have been initiated, and in this regard it is also necessary to draw attention to the misrepresentation under Article 284 of the Penal Code-1 of the former Director of the Hospital, Natasha Fikfak, at the 20th meeting of the Commission of Inquiry. In view of these essential findings, which were also accepted by the members of the Commission without a vote, the Commission concludes in its interim report with a referral decision to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In the context of the present decision, the Commission therefore proposes to the legislative and executive branches of the Authority specific amendments to the legislation to ensure that the current inappropriate practice of purchasing medical equipment and medical material is also regulated legally with a view to preventing overpaid procurement in health care. The conclusion therefore proposes to introduce regulation of the purchase prices of medical devices and medical equipment by means of a reference price system, which would prevent such major discrepancies in the prices of the same material between individual public institutions or hospitals in the future. We propose the establishment of a special independent office to verify the implementation and implementation of joint public procurement contracts that could be implemented within the Ministry of Health through the UN-3 amendment. On the basis of the infringements found, we also propose to define the concept of an annex to the procurement contract and framework agreement within the framework of the legislative amendments and to the new establishment of the Institute of Consignment Contract under the procurement procedure in the field of medical equipment and medical material. In view of the fact that Slovenian health care has been shaken for many years by a number of corruption stories about overpaid medical materials, we believe that the latter is essential in order to legally prevent further overpayments of medical supplies, which we have witnessed in the investigative commission this time also in a given case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st urgent meeting on 1 February 2019, the Commission decided unanimously to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the implementation of child cardiology programmes. On 25 March 2020, the Commission of Inquiry submitted an interim report on the liability of public function holders on the programme of child cardiology with two separate opinions from Jelka Godec of 30 March 2020 and Mojce Žnidarič, which was considered by the National Assembly at its 12th meeting on 10 July 2020 and adopted the proposed decision. At the same time, it was agreed that a parliamentary inquiry would take place in the second part of the commission of inquiry, namely in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. Thus, during the period from 25 February 2020 until 13 May 2021, i.e. in the second part of the parliamentary investigation, an investigation was conducted in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The Commission first undertook parliamentary investigations into illegal and illegal purchases of medical equipment and medical material at the secondary and tertiary levels of health activity in the Republic of Slovenia with a view to developing proposals for amending legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and for determining and assessing the actual situation, to establish the political and other responsibilities of public function holders in health institutions at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica, the Commission of Inquiry met at 10 regular and two emergency meetings. The Commission of Inquiry carried out a difficult work, as it was necessary to obtain all the documentation and also to conduct a hearing of witnesses. In this context, 16 witnesses were invited before the commission of inquiry, legally, contractually and commercially linked to the operation of the General Hospital, Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. That work has been difficult and difficult to carry out over a certain period of time, it also tells us in the report that an investigative commission had to hire a neurologist specialist to carry out its tasks. The findings of the commission of inquiry are that in the General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica procurement procedures have been a major problem for many years. As early as 2004, on 21 April 2004, the Court of Auditors issued an audit report on the irregular use of transfers from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Nova Gorica. 27. Ten. In 2016, the Ministry also identified the non-transparent implementation of grants, the non-compliance of the internal public procurement regulation with the applicable legislation, which meant individual systemic conflicts of interest, and the observed conflict of interest between the officials involved in the proceedings also because of the related relations, with the guidance for these relations being known and allowed or failed to act accordingly. The irregularity of the situation with regard to the purchase of medical equipment and the supervision of individuals over the purchase of individual medical material, even though the systematisation of the workplace did not allow them to do so, was confirmed in the administrative supervision of the Head of the Anesthesiology Department at the hospital. It is clear from the findings of the Commission of Inquiry that in Slovenia, in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, there is a lack of transparency in the use of public money and it is therefore reasonable to consider further procedures for ensuring a system of joint procurement and price regulation and introducing a system of reference prices that will prevent future price differences between individual public institutions, as we have seen in the analysis of orthopaedic medical material at individual hospitals in Slovenia. Members of the New Slovenia - the Croatian Democrats will support the proposal because the work done has shown weaknesses in our health system. It is true, more often than not, that money for our health system is enough, only control over consumption is bad because it has many holes and as a result many private interests. It is time that such a practice of exhausting our health system is simply cut short. The work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry revealed these practices and they are listed in the interim report, which is why everything now depends also on the political will and, above all, on the political will and the desire to seriously control the use of public funds in the Slovenian healthcare system. Today's support for Members to a decision of the Commission of Inquiry will certainly be a signal if we all really want the same thing – a successful, quality and functioning health care available under the same conditions for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. The Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology and Procurement and Management Programme with Medical Equipment and Medical Material was set up at the third meeting of the National Assembly in December 2018 and covers the period of investigation from 2007 to 2018. The interim report, which we are considering today, focuses on the work of the Commission of Inquiry on the procurement of medical equipment and medical material that the Commission of Inquiry has been working on in the last year. The purpose and objectives of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry were: to identify the actual situation or practice in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material, to develop proposals for possible legislative changes, to identify the potential political responsibility of public officials in health institutions and others. The health situation, as we have all determined for many years, is not good. In particular, problems and anomalies in the field of public procurement have been emerging for years. In the analysis of the implementation of public procurement orders for the purchase of orthopaedic medical material at the General Hospital of Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica, the Commission has come to some conclusions which do not constitute an economic and transparent treatment of public finances and point to the lack of order and management of medical materials and equipment. I quote a statement from one of the witnesses: “We are obviously such a country where things are possible. So, if the builders were talking in front of the TV cameras, who's gonna be building somewhere, what's that other than a cartel deal? What makes you think that such cartel arrangements would not happen in health care?" End of quote. This statement is very eloquent and worrying as it clearly shows that in the case of the purchase of medical material and equipment, cartel arrangements have taken place on which of the hospitals will be sold. We can ask ourselves if this is still the case. The Commission has reached a number of final common essential conclusions. The blame for such non-transparent and non-economic procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material may be attributed to the management of the hospital under investigation. The department’s management often changed, and the problems remained. The types of responsibilities identified in these procurements are political, formal, administrative, professional and ethical. The said hospital did not have a properly regulated internal act, i.e. a procurement procedure regulation that clearly sets out the course and execution of purchases and thus the responsibility of individuals in individual procurement phases. In view of the non-acceptance of the said Regulation, there has been a suspicion of a breach of the bill on legal protection in public procurement procedures and, consequently, in some individuals, the suspicion of infringement of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. A large number of dilemmas arose in the examination of the invitation to tender due to the listing of the catalogue numbers and a very precise description of the individual sets — a copy from the manufacturer’s catalogue. Neither were the opening records available to us because they obviously did not exist. In certain cases, the contracting authority should more effectively prevent conflicts of interest arising from certain purchases through so-called contracts B. Certain persons involved in procurement proceedings have been suspected of violating the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, as they were obliged to take care of their exclusion from public procurement procedures by virtue of their functions and related relations and have not done so. Annexes were also concluded which were of no value or quantity, which is contrary to legislation. There is also reasonable suspicion that there has been a fragmentation of public procurement. The findings presented by the Commission of Inquiry in the interim report also show that non-transparent purchases of medical equipment and material were made in the hospital via orders B for which there is no need to carry out the procurement procedure. Inadequately regulated legislation allowed prices for the same sets of medical material to vary widely between individual public institutions. As a result, there was a difference of up to 60 percent and more between hospitals. It should also be pointed out that the former directors carried out their work outside the office with the company in which they owned their shares and that their consent was given to them by one of them as co-owners of the joint venture. So they gave their consent to each other, depending on which one of them was the director at the time. On the basis of everything found by the executive and legislative branches, the Commission of Inquiry has proposed to table the necessary legislative proposals to supplement or amend existing legislation. On the basis of the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, a proposal for a decision proposing the necessary amendments is attached to the approval of all Members. Immediately after the conclusion of this second part of the Commission's investigation and the adoption of the interim report under consideration on the Commission, the Coalition's Group of Members, together with the Slovenian National Party, tabled a proposal for a new Law on Public Procurement, which already refers to certain anomalies which we discovered during the course of the investigation of that hospital. In the SMC Group, we will support the final substantive findings and the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification and accountability of public function holders on the Child Cardiology Programme and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, and it is the findings of the second part of the parliamentary commission, the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. In the second part of the investigation, the Commission’s parliamentary investigation in this area focused solely on the analysis of the public procurement contracts for materials and medical equipment at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Nova Gorica. The evidentiary procedure of the parliamentary inquiry by the Commission, which met for this purpose at ten regular and two urgent meetings and heard 15 witnesses, was exhausted on 13 May 2021. On the basis of the investigation carried out, only the essential findings of the investigation carried out by way of a referral decision, which were adopted by members of the Commission without a vote at its 29th meeting, were drawn up in the course of the interim report. As part of the analysis of the public procurement contracts received for the purchase of hip braces at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Novi Gorica, the Commission of Inquiry has identified several specific cases of non-economic and non-transparent treatment of public finances since those procurements which were examined and compared with other hospitals have been overpaid. In the context of the above, the Commission of Inquiry has come to substantial conclusions of the investigation, which are thus recorded and summarised in the 30 points at the end of the report and are based, in particular, on the reconfirmation of the already publicly exposed fact that such non-economic behaviour of public procurement in the health sector allows primarily the currently unregulated legislation in force. Therefore, there is an urgent need for legal changes in this area. In view of the above, the interim report is therefore concluded by a referral decision from the Commission of Inquiry, which already contains concrete proposals for amendments to public health procurement legislation, with a view to regulating the prices of medical devices and material to avoid further overpayments in the context of the purchase of medical equipment and material. Since we are in favour of transparent and cost-effective public money management in the Desus Group and, above all, we are aware of the long-exposed problem of overpaid healthcare supplies, which would certainly need to be addressed, we will also support the interim report of the commission of inquiry by means of a referral decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Have a good day, all of you! In Slovenia, in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, we face corruption, the unregulated market, as well as unregulated legislation, which could prevent certain irregularities and untransparent public finances in public health institutions. The instrument with which we can draw attention to irregularities in the National Assembly is undoubtedly an investigative committee. In the conclusions of the commissions of inquiry, we have repeatedly warned the competent authorities about irregularities, particularly in public health institutions, but unfortunately there has never been an epilogue. Here I am thinking in particular of the findings and conclusions of the commission of inquiry in the field of vascular resistors. As soon as the mid-term report on child cardiology was adopted in July 2020, the Commission initiated a parliamentary investigation into illegal and illegal purchases of medical equipment and medical material in the case of Dr. Franc Derganca General Hospital in Nova Gorica. In this hospital, procurement procedures have been very difficult for many years and go back far, all the time in 2004, when the Court of Auditors warned the hospital of irregularities and imposed corrective measures that have not been implemented until now or have been poorly remedied. The purpose of the inquiry was to review the documentation or material obtained by the Commission by the hospital and to include public procurement orders for the purchase of hip braces. However, the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry was to determine whether it might be the political responsibility of former and current holders of public functions in institutions carrying out health activities and involved in administrative decisions and in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material that led to reckless and illegal procurement. In the event of an irregularity finding, the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry was also to draw up proposals to amend existing legislation. The Commission of Inquiry, in the process of identifying irregularities in the execution of contracts for the purchase of hip braces at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca Nova Gorica, as we have already heard today, has heard as many as fifteen witnesses and has also come to interesting conclusions. From the Witnesses ’ hearings, it was clear that many years of purchases at the hospital were made through the hospital’s manager. The daughter of the head of the hospital pharmacy was also the director of GoPHARM, d.o.o., who was very successful in supplying medicines to the hospital. Both mothers and daughters, of course, participated in public procurement procedures, which, among other things, clearly demonstrates a possible conflict of interest. GoPHARM d.o.o. also had a much higher share of supplies of medicines and consumables to Nova Gorica Hospital compared to other hospitals. In 2016, the Ministry of Health’s administrative supervision was also detected by the above-mentioned over-average operation, but the hospital’s management did not react again. It is also incomprehensible that the entire selection of materials and equipment was prepared and managed by the manager of the hospital pharmacy and prepared a specification of the material with trademarks. Both employees and tenderers were alerted to irregularities and the management did not react again. Therefore, the Head of Hospital Pharmacy had special powers under the internal rules in all procedures or was a key person in preparing that part of the tender that had a direct impact on the choice of the tenderer. It was also the only one who did not sign the declaration of non-compatibility of functions, although it should be based on the job. This deficiency has also been reported to the hospital’s management and there have been no measures taken by the hospital’s competent authorities. The Commission of Inquiry also found that the purchase of hips or prosthetics in the hospital was carried out through an intermediary, so the hospital also paid the medical material heavily, up to 37 percent and more. The Primsel affair isn't surprising either. It is a well-known public affair of the multi-annual exclusive supplier of overpaid hip braces at Nova Gorica Hospital. Primsel d.o.o. is owned by Aleš Furlan, who is the brother of Harry Furlan, the former head of the specialized state prosecutor. Therefore, Primsel d. o. o. has been supplying only Nova Gorica hospital for more than 10 years. This company purchased hip braces from the Italian company Lima from Vidma. Well, this is an interesting statement by Aleš Furlan, according to Director Primsella, that with Lima from Vidma his company had no legal basis or contract on the basis of which they purchased hip prosthetics. According to him, the business took place on the basis of confidence, which is quite unusual, as it is the sums that are now up to several million euros. It is also interesting that the Italian company Lima supplied hip prosthetics to other hospitals, but to other patients directly without an intermediary. At the hearing, Aleš Furlan, director of Pimsel d.o.o., said that his company also had no contract with Nova Gorica with the hospital regarding the consignment warehouse, since according to him the business with the hospital was based on trust or oral agreement. Unfortunately, the investigation into the possible damage to public funds in the case of Primsel, d.o.o., in the specialised state prosecutor's office was not possible due to the related links. In its review of the two public purchases of orthopaedic material from 2009 and 2014, the Commission also concluded that, in individual cases, public contracts exceeded 50 % or more of the originally planned value of the contract itself. In 2009, the hospital purchased EUR 1.4 million of orthopaedic material over the tender. In 2014, more than EUR 3 million of medical material was purchased through public procurement, which is more than 43 %, as determined by the decision to carry out the public procedure. In all of this, the most interesting thing is the fact that Mark Medical, d. o. o. This may have been such a large supply of orthopaedic material due to the fact that Mark Medical, d.o.o.’s son was employed in the hospital at the time. As a result of all these illegal procurement procedures at Nova Gorica Hospital, 11 public procurement proceedings were also initiated. Of these, 6 procedures have been concluded as illegal and procedures for the other 5 public contracts are still under way. Nova Gorica has already received a fine of €380,000 for these closed cases. Before the Commission of Inquiry, it was also found that the former Director of the hospital had falsely testified before the Commission of Inquiry concerning the payment of the fines he had to pay for the breach of public procurement law. When asked by the president of the commission of inquiry why the director lied before the commission, the former director of Nova Gorica Hospital replied, I will quote: “I am stupid.” The Commission also found irregularities in the operation of Nova Gorica hospital in giving consent to doctors working outside the hospital. From the review of the business account Apollo, d. o. o., it follows, that all doctors who have a contract with this institution were called Apollo d. o. o. at the same time employed at Nova Gorica Hospital. In this interim report, the Commission proposes: that the concept of reference price be introduced in the field of health procurement, based on comparable prices of media equipment and health material on the Slovenian market and on the markets of other EU Member States; that common public procurement be introduced and that a specific independent office be established for the supervision, implementation and implementation of common public contracts; that mandatory elements of the annex to the public procurement contract be included in the Public Procurement Act; and that, in the context of the procurement procedure, the instrument of the consensual contract be regulated; and that the concept of a framework agreement be defined by the definition of its mandatory elements. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry and, of course, its decision, and we will therefore also confirm this interim report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Jože Lenart. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, how many of us are left in this hall! The interim report on the accountability of the public procurement and management function holders at the General Hospital, Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica, refers to the period 2007-2018 in accordance with the defined act establishing the investigative commission in question. The key finding of the Commission of Inquiry at Nova Gorica General Hospital is that the hospital’s management did not comply with the Public Procurement Act and the Internal Act during the period considered and also in the past, that is, instruction 1 of the Public Procurement Act-2 and the Public Procurement Act-3 for the award of low value contracts. It is also found that the management of the hospital did not provide cost-effective and transparent treatment of public finances and more than clearly demonstrates the irregularity of both public procurement and the purchase and management of medical material and equipment. Following a clear warning from the Court of Auditors, which issued a negative opinion on the implementation of public procurement for 2002 to the hospital, the Public Procurement Regulation was adopted, which set out in more detail the organisation and management of the procurement service and the Public Procurement Group, the mandatory phases of the procurement process and identified the competences and responsibilities of the participants in the procurement process. Unfortunately, the Investigative Commission notes that these commitments did not materialise at the time of the investigation or were clearly in breach. In the second point, the conclusion of the joint findings of the Commission of Inquiry, we wrote that the blame for such procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material can be attributed to the management of the general hospital Nova Gorica, the professional council, doctors and hospital manager at the General Hospital Nova Gorica, the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All analyses should be assessed with an objective and critical view. The following is the political responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the formal administrative responsibility of the management of the hospital and doctors, and professional responsibility. We conclude on ethical responsibility, which we attribute to everyone. The case of the General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica as a non-transparent and non-economic activity and business is reflected in the inefficient management of all Slovenian health care. It is clear that during this period the protection mechanisms did not work. In addition to the clear commitments and responsibilities of the administration, the director, the board of directors, the professional director of the institution, the professional board of the institution, there are also control systems such as internal audit, control mechanisms by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance as an inspection service and the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must therefore seriously ask how, despite all these mechanisms, such irregularities can occur in public health institutions and public funds, which in certain cases also appear to be suspected of violations of Articles 37 and 38 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, are obviously being used in a transparent manner. Thus, it is essential to prevent the untransparent and uneconomic treatment of public finances in the procurement of medical equipment and devices in Slovenian health care in order to approach common public procurement and price regulation. It is also necessary to supplement the existing Public Procurement Act accordingly, where procurement procedures will be clearly defined. I also wonder whether doctors, as directors of public health institutions, are even qualified for this task, given the responsibility they bear as managers in accordance with the legislation. Would it not be necessary for them to carry out additional training for this task before taking on such leadership? In the investigation itself, we also found the suspicion of non-economic behaviour in the issue of work permits outside the General Hospital of Nova Gorica, although unutilized capacities were both human resources and equipment within the hospital. In this respect, it is found that such licences were issued by even two directors of the institution, who are even in an ownership relationship with external companies and have assisted each other in such non-economic behaviour. Such behaviour by management workers is unacceptable, irresponsible and unsanitary. In any case, the public health system is poor in terms of both income and cost, and it is particularly dissatisfaction among public health professionals who seek professional and ethical treatment and the delivery of all health services for citizens and citizens, as well as for others who are treated in Slovenia. On this point, in the LMŠ, we ask why the Government of Janez Janš did not, in particular, follow measures to strengthen the existing public health system to rationalise the functioning of the health system with existing resources in the field of health. The measures did not track the establishment of a health network according to standards and standards that would allow the Ministry of Health to be transparent over the employment or lack of capacity, both in equipment and in personnel, and enable monitoring of the productivity of individual health teams across regions. Thus, health workers could also be properly rewarded by quality and quantity. Patients throughout Slovenia have the right to equal treatment according to standards and norms, and it is therefore the last time we have taken this seriously. Rather than being targeted in this direction, the measures in this law are aimed at the inclusion of private individuals in the health system. This, according to the Commission of Inquiry, will further weaken the public health system in the case of the General Hospital, Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. The fact is that the law on emergency measures in the field of health does not follow this mid-term report, which clearly points to irregularities that result in the untransparent and uneconomic management of public health institutions in health care. The measures in the law and the findings of this report are thus contrary. So I wonder how measures can successfully work on the stability of this health system, which is definitely breaking the stitches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Mr Bojana Muršič, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have before us an interim report from the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme and in the area of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The Commission analysed public procurement orders for orthopaedic medical material at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Nova Gorica. On the basis of the hearings of witnesses and materials, there have been some findings that suggest possible non-transparency and non-economic treatment of public finances. The conclusions are set out in as many as 30 points. For the unregulated situation and untransparent and unconscionable treatment of public finances, the blame may be prescribed to the management of the general hospital, but will have to be decided by the competent authorities. The Commission notes that the procurement and management legislation is not regulated. The health material market in Slovenia is disorderly and is easily irregular. Furthermore, we can read in the report that the already mentioned hospital may not have had properly regulated internal acts and regulations. There is a suspicion of a breach of the roof law on public procurement procedures, suspicion against interests and suspicion of the objective political responsibilities of the competent public functions. This is just a few of the conclusions the Commission has drawn in its final conclusions and conclusions. The proposed decision, which we will decide today, has two main points or messages. It is necessary to amend or supplement the law governing public procurement and to send to the National Assembly, as soon as possible, a legislative proposal governing the areas of public procurement, which will contain all nine recommendations or recommendations from the Commission. We have two amendments and a supplement to the Public Procurement Act tabled in the legislative process. The first was invested by the Government and will be decided today by the other Members and Members of the ruling coalition. We have no reservations in the proposed decision of the Group of Social Democrats, but we note that the final content of the laws is formed at the meetings of the competent working bodies and at the plenary meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. We have before us a draft of the second interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. After first investigating the circumstances, mistakes and decay of child cardiology, the Commission focused in the second part on the procurement of medical equipment, which has been studied so far in the case of the General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. Thus, we have before us an interim report on the operation of purchases at this hospital for the period 2007 to 2018. The interim report aims to synthesize conclusions and propose solutions that would improve the procurement procedures themselves and control the use of public funds in these procurements. The general hospital in Novi Gorica has been repeatedly alerted by various authorities over the years to errors and their elimination in procurement and procurement procedures. It was thus pointed out, for example, by the Court of Auditors in 2004, the audit report of the selected auditor, the Accounting and Business Consulting of Milena Gorjup, p. p., in 2011, the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Health for the period from 1. 5. 2011 to 30. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final surveillance report was issued in 2016. Of course, we must not let go of individuals, public and anonymous, who have warned of mistakes. As is the case with the testimony of the witnesses and documents obtained by the Commission, such as witnesses from Mr Mihelič, Mrs Rebecca, the witnesses also said that several comments were made in the way of managing public procurement, particularly when the registrations used the codes of the products in the supplier's catalogue. The Head of Public Procurement, Mrs Bizjak, also pointed out that public procurement procedures were inadequate, but apparently not heard or not fast enough. According to the evidence obtained, the situation did not significantly change until Mrs Štefančič's departure from the post of Head of Pharmacy and the arrival of the external contractor in the field of public procurement in 2015. It is unheard of that despite the warnings from different levels, it has not moved much and the disputed practices have continued at least until 2015. Public procurement proceedings were carried out in contravention of applicable public procurement legislation. They have also been implemented contrary to the legislation in force because of the lack of documents and records. There is also a fragmentation of the contract in several smaller ones with a view to enforcing the laws and accurately describing the characteristics of the contract item with a view to the possibility of the selection of the solely selected supplier and so on. We've heard a lot on this committee. All of this was possible because the internal acts were not already harmonised and the acquisition was done in too many places. Such and similar findings, which have been pointed out by different stakeholders and are also summarised by our parliamentary commission, also point to the lack of supervision by the institution and the competent ministry. It is necessary to highlight some facts that are not sufficiently addressed by the report under consideration. Let me start with the internal files. Of course, they are important, they need to be regulated, but this does not mean that actors entrusted with certain tasks, in particular in this case, with the task of public procurement, would not be able to carry out the procurement procedure more effectively and legally if they followed all the letters of the law, if they were not already the spirit of the Public Procurement Act and other relevant legislation. A worker with a high degree of integrity and ethical activity who understands that he is in the service of all the inhabitants of the country is difficult to convince that he would work contrary to his conscience and contrary to the law. Therefore, the reasons for the infringement are to be sought in the personnel themselves, on the one hand in their ethical choices, and on the other hand there may also be insufficient knowledge of the legislation. None of these characteristics can be acquired overnight; they are the product of planned effort and fulfillment. When both of them are at an extremely low level, of course, we are all still at a disadvantage. It is therefore a key planned human resources policy and positive selection that allows for the advancement of truly verified and professional staff. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure a proper rotation in responsible jobs, which is also one of the findings of our investigation, otherwise some unwitting links that pose a potential threat to public procurement may also be created. It is therefore the moment of connection and, on the other hand, the exposure of certain personnel. In the healthcare system, doctors are more or less the last in the decision makers' chain. Support services in the hospital, including those in charge of ordering materials, can be removed from doctors even when it comes to their own professional tasks. In particular, for example, in the field of public procurement. As these services do not interfere with the area of professional treatment, doctors must not interfere with the area of competence. We are back in the relationship and integrity and ethical decisions of a particular individual in a specific job. Indicating catalogue numbers instead of describing the characteristics, and only the most urgent and necessary ones, does not mean so much for the workers who directly executed the orders, but for the doctors themselves who favoured the precise manufacturer and for their pressure on the workers who prepared the invitation to tender. The Witnesses also confessed. It also follows from the documentary documentation of the contracts awarded that the detailed characteristics, when it was not the catalogue numbers of the material that they wanted a specific product from a particular manufacturer in the context of public tenders, indicate such a specificity of knowledge that only a specialist doctor can have. Of course, buyers are not only under pressure from certain doctors, they can also be carried out by a management structure. It is therefore a whole system that does not have effective levers to ensure quality of work and automatic detection of deviations. It is clear that the quality criteria for different jobs are different and require continuous monitoring and adaptation in a changing environment, but such a system is not impossible. That it was possible to work differently, there are also individual exceptions at home and, above all, abroad, to which our media publicly reminds us and we read about them in our media many times. Since the procurement issue is therefore rather complex, the investigator proposes centralised procurement and or the introduction of reference prices. In Levika, in the programme document for the last elections 2018, we formed a position on this health issue when we proposed a medicine for corruption and high fees in the delivery of medical materials. By setting up a public company for the purchase of medical materials that would bring out private intermediaries, this company's profits would in fact go back directly to the health system and in fact these orders would be much more transparent, efficient and even more profitable. The introduction of reference prices has also proved effective in some medicinal products, and the question is whether a more detailed analysis of the European market would lead to even more favourable prices. In view of the EU Presidency period, Slovenia could also highlight the advantage of this centralised procurement within the European framework and also take the first steps towards implementing such a project. There is still time, and I think this project can even wake up to life. They would have done much already with the obligation of direct orders from manufacturers and the regulation of margins in retailers. To make it difficult for the latter in Slovenia, it has also proved to be in such momentous moments as the lack of equipment at the beginning of the epidemic, when it seems that in our country every such direct order is unwanted and almost prohibited. I've got a few things I'd like to introduce, but I'm afraid I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna finish up slowly. In view of all that I have already said, or even what we have concluded on this committee, and I think we have been effective, yet it is precisely because of all these systemic things that are happening that we will abstain in this decision in Levica. However, I hope that we will then formally support or support the second time, because I think it will be necessary for the Commission to give some clearer directives on certain public procurements. Because what we've heard in these various testimonies was, frankly, after 30 years of independence or even our independent countries almost tasteless to other citizens, what is happening in public procurement at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report, on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision. The list has been cut to the shortest possible extent. We have only two more speakers, Mr Andrej Chernigoj and Mag. Carmen Furman. Mr. Chernigoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. The establishment and in-depth work of the Investigative Commission on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material has proved to be correct and justified. I would like here to commend the work of the commission of inquiry and all the experts. The fact that the work under investigation was very difficult also speaks of the fact that it was also necessary to hire a forensic expert and a neurologist who, somehow, reviewed all the data, all the contracts and, above all, the non-systematic work that was done in this hospital. In this commission of inquiry, they initially focused on one hospital, such as the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca Nova Gorica. I must say that I am coming alone and spent most of my time in the Vipavska Valley and to me this general hospital is alpha and omega in health care in the Republic of Slovenia. I have to say that when I've been monitoring witnesses who don't remember, they're losing their memory of the guilty witness, I've lost confidence in this system a little bit, and I think something like this is going to happen to citizens and citizens too, unfortunately. Here I would like to commend once again the work of the commission itself, which invited 16 Witnesses. I have to say, there were some interesting things or flowers. I found Primsel, his director and all-powerful connections, including related ones, to be particularly interesting to me. Much work has been done, as they would say in the countryside, domestically, but perhaps it would offend these people in the countryside. I must say that if I say a little in jest, this unusual public private-partnership in the form of a mother and daughter is bizarre in this area and I have to say here as a member of the National Assembly and also as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia that this interesting practice somehow does not go into my memory. I will support the proposal for a decision. Above all, I think we should carry out a special audit in all hospitals in the near future. The auditors should know the content, the subject matter in Slovenia and abroad, the contracting authority and the payer and the audit should not be the hospital itself or the hospital’s supervisory authorities, but should be the Ministry of Health or even better than the Government. The situation is serious and needs to be properly addressed, and hospitals cannot review themselves because the birds on the branch are already chirping to revise [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your time's up. There's more magic in the word. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I thank all my colleagues for their views and also my colleague Montenegro for the debate in the context of the work of our investigative commission. I still need to respond a little bit to the position of my colleague from the Left, who is also a member of our investigative commission. As far as I know, or as far as I can remember, he's been very creatively involved in the sessions themselves. However, certain statements from your point of view, see, my colleague, have raised concerns about the content of the referral decision, which is being considered today at the end of this interim report. You have also received an interim report as a member of the Commission for a preliminary examination, a review, you have had more than a week, if I am not mistaken for ten days of time, you yourself participated in these meetings of the Commission of Inquiry, so that you get the report so that you can also propose some corrections or perhaps, I don't know, add your ideas on how legislation should change according to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry. Now there are some flat-rate indications that you cannot confirm this, because somehow some other directives would still be put in. You know, I'm for you to say it specifically when you get it, it's your job, you suggest, you complete it. You have neither proposed nor complemented, so that I hope that in the next interim report or in the final report we will be so creative all together that what you or you think is missing in the report, you propose, and first, there will be a wider debate and vote within the Commission, and then later, if the matter is voted on, also at the meeting of the National Assembly. And maybe this is a lesson, a reference price. These are designed or are to be constructed on the basis of prices of comparable other countries within the European Union. Finally, allow me to take this opportunity to thank all the members and their deputies who work within the Commission of Inquiry for their truly creative cooperation and constructive work. There are still a few challenges ahead, and I believe that we will work in the same way in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Since Mrs Carmen Furman, as president of the commission of inquiry, has just had the floor, I ask if she wants another word in her concluding work. No, no, no. Then we close this first part. I ask if anyone else has an interest in the time-sharing debate. Mr. Bostian Korazzi. If the president checks in, she'll get her word after you. Mr. Korazia, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Dear Mrs. Carmen Furman! When we talked about these public contracts, or even the possibilities, when we were at these witnessing meetings, we found that in fact, most of the problems that have occurred or even the Witnesses have presented things to us have arisen on many occasions because the possibility of awarding contracts on several points or of issuing public contracts as such. And here, too, I see the biggest problem when we talk about these things, that it would be really good, that the final decentralised order should be lifted, which I think, even if I understand correctly from your debate, that it is also working in this direction or that this point will happen sooner or later. I must admit that we have cooperated constructively, but I think it is also right that a person has some of his or her concerns or perceptions of things or content. So that I respect your opinion, I will not object in any way at all, but you must respect my opinion or our opinion in this case, because a lot of things about these matters, or even those testimony on these committees, could be said or discussed in this direction. In fact, this is one of the major problems, which I have also personally identified, as well as what we have talked about, that this health management is also a problem that is not clearly defined. On many occasions, doctors who have witnessed or have been directors or are still directors are very competent as specialists, but they have been very poorly competent or even incompetent to run a hospital in this case. In this direction, I would also like the Commission to continue to work, in particular, with some conclusions that might even be proposed to the government at some point in time to allow things to move forward in this direction. As I must say, there have been no conflicts on these commissions that we have had. Mrs. Furman, you have been so impulsive against me. I don't know why else, because I've never had a fight with you. So yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The last one gets the word "proposer." Time sharing is just once, and, buddy, you didn't raise your hand first. So she has a word as the last Mrs. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much for that last word. Look, my dear fellow Korazi, I respect your opinion and any other opinion. I would only ask you to add an argument next time, given that you are a member of the commission. After all, this is the work of the members of the commission if we are investigating something for several months. However, I would be very happy if the members of this committee, when they have an opinion, also argue, but not generally, reject flat-rate matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the discussion on the interim report, on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision and we will therefore decide on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.05 p.m. and resumed at 14.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6.a, 6.b, 6.c, 45., 49., 46., 47., 14, 16, 34., 21, 22, 23, 25, 26., 28, 31, 40., 41., 42., 43., 44. and 50. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th A item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 23. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6.B item on the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on prudential supervision of investment firms under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 12. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 12. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 45th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 12. Seven. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Chapter 6. 1. 4. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the home labour body or at the meeting of the assembly would make the motion for a resolution inconsistent. Luka Mesec, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We will vote against this resolution in graves for two reasons. The first is that the resolution, which should address the start of reforms towards the decarbonisation of Slovenian society and the country, is highly unambitious. For example, greenhouse emissions in agriculture are expected to decrease by only 1% by 2030 under this strategy. In transport, although we know we have to get to zero, by 2030 we should reduce only good 10% of the greenhouse emissions. It's similar in other sectors. The entire burden of decarbonising this country lies somewhere after 2030, or even after 2040, by the fact that climate change is already a reality. We're in one of the biggest heat waves. Recently, in Ljubljana, the temperature has never fallen below 25 degrees Fahrenheit [25 ° C]. But of course we can survive that. The problem is what is happening right now in the west of Canada, where deep in the north the temperature has jumped for several weeks to more than 50 degrees Celsius, and what is happening in the north course. Everything shows that we have already crossed the point where the global climate is becoming unpredictable, and we will slowly find ourselves in the world when climate stability as we have known it will no longer exist. This will not only have a bad effect on nature, but it will have a bad impact on the rest of our lives, including people on this planet. To talk about a strategy that says it will reduce exhaust emissions by 1% in one of the key sectors by 2030, while we have a common European objective of reducing emissions by 55% by this year, it is completely unrealistic. The only serious thing you are now bound to do with the amendment to this law is to start administrative procedures for the construction of a second block of nuclear power. I am not an enemy of nuclear energy myself, but I will say this: the nuclear power plant is not built in such a way that it meets 50 points at some summer meeting, in a resolution that has passed any public debate, a provision will be inserted in order to initiate administrative procedures. So a good decade and a half ago, you started building a thermoelectric plant, and we know how this story ended or how much it would cost us before we got to the epilogue. This is not how it's done, these are billions of projects. At the same time, it must be said that nuclear energy, although in principle this is not a high carbon footprint energy, cannot in itself be a response to climate change, as it appears, and there is no other answer in this resolution. That's why we can't support her in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 49, for 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 49th item of the agenda – Intermediate report on the accountability of public officials in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material at the General Hospital of Dr. Franca Derganca Nova Gorica. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the interim report on pages 65 to 122. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the Commission of Inquiry on page 127. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 46th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Joint Biennial Report on the work of the Commission for the supervision of the Information and Security Services for 2018 and 2019. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 47th item of the agenda, this is the Commission's report on the monitoring of labour intelligence and security services for 2020. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Law under the ordinary procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is suitable for further consideration. Luke Moon has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. In Levika we will oppose this law because it is the first stone in the tax reform it intends to carry out this autumn. This tax reform is one of the tax reforms of the Janša governments and is harmful on the whole line. In the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, the first thing to be seen is how tax oasis are understood and defined. So far, tax havens have been subject to countries that are not members of the European Union, where the general rate of taxation of profits is lower than 12,5 %. They went to the tax oasis list. After this, it is added that whether such a country with a profit tax rate of less than 12,5 % is on the list of tax havens is followed by a new decision by the Minister. I imagine that some comrade of Snezič who operates in a friendly country that could qualify as a tax oasis will achieve at the Ministry that it is not a tax haven, and we will be able to continue to read along the highways how you can avoid taxes in Slovenia if you open a company in Bosnia. Correct me if you don't. Secondly, what's interesting is how you understand the taxation of profits. We all know that taxation of profits has been a matter for many years, both in the European Union and around the world. At the moment, the wind is finally turning in a different direction. US President Biden announced that taxation of profits would increase from 21% to 28%. We kind of found ourselves in a regime that works in the opposite direction. We had Janša's first government, which reduced profit taxation from 25% to 20%, we had the second Janša government, which introduced a policy of extremely generous tax reliefs and allowed some companies to completely avoid paying profits, have a level 0. Between 2013 and 2016, due to these reforms, the overall profit margin between Slovenian companies was between 11% and 12% in all three years. So we would have qualified ourselves as a tax oasis if we were to look at this criterion. What are you doing now? You will introduce a new 30 million vacations for private companies. We know what the effects will be. Fewer developing ones, however, will continue to lack money in the state budget for health care, for housing and for railways. But this 30 million is just the beginning, and in autumn we are looking forward to a reform that will slowly take about a billion bites into public finances. We're going to oppose everything. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 39. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services in the framework of the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act under the ordinary procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Nataša Sukić has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. We know that the issue of the public procurement system is most related to transparency and corruption. In particular, small-value orders are problematic, which are extremely non-transparent, difficult to track, and the overall problem is also the adaptation of tendering conditions, which, of course, are associated with corruption risks. Of course, problems do not arise when procedures are carried out in accordance with certain applicable rules, but where these rules are enforced or even infringed. No new law can really eliminate this problem, not the one that can worry us. We can be concerned that the Government is proposing changes that will only increase corruption risks. Higher thresholds for low-value contracts have been established since last year in anti-Korona legislation, but you had no serious argument at the time why. Now you're trying to make this situation permanent in the law of the mother. Let me also remind you of the results of the recent survey by Trasparency International on how citizens of the European Union feel about corruption in their country. These results should be taken seriously by the government. 51% of the population and population of Slovenia thinks that corruption has increased in our country over the past 12 months. A larger proportion was recorded only in Cyprus. So we are second in the European Union in a degree of mistrust. Does this concern our government? Apparently not, not at all. The increase in the thresholds for low-value orders is actually a cynical response to this. And what will be the consequences? A large number of purchases of goods and services delivered without calls for proposals and corruption risk will only be increased. We will, of course, strongly oppose this bill in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Land Book in the framework of the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance under the ordinary procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 3. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service under the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 28th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources in the framework of the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army under the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 51, for 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. The Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Slovenia The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 79, against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 41. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Sweden on the suspension of the validity of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of transactions with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 79, against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 42. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Finland on the suspension of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the suspension of the validity of the agreement and the protection of the investment. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 80, against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 43. Republic of Austria, Portugal, Portugal, Slovenia, Republic of Malta, Republic of Croatia, Republic of Cyprus, Republic of Latvia, Republic of Latvia, Republic of Latvia, Republic of Lithuania, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Republic of Malta, Republic of Italy, Republic of Croatia, Republic of Latvia, Republic of Latvia, Republic of Lithuania, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Bulgaria, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia, Republic of Slovenia The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members, 81, against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 44. At the end of the day, this is a counterproposal of a law on the ratification of amended and amended acts of world postal relations. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading of the draft law, and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 50. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a candidate for Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 16 June 2021, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed the candidate Dr Damjan Kukovec to the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg will be taken together with the vote on 50.b and 50.c., immediately after the debate on agenda item 50.c. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor. On 21 June 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governors be appointed to the vacant seat. Irena Waterman Jean. I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic, following talks with the candidates who applied for the seat of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor and after consulting the heads of the parliamentary groups, decided to propose to the Members and Members of the National Assembly that the Vice-Governor be appointed as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Irena Vodopivoc Jean, university-graduate economist, master of science. Mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean currently serves as Vice Governor of Banka Slovenije. After several years of work at Banka Slovenije, she initially performed important tasks of the Ministry of Finance, and from 2011 until the election to Vice-Governorship, she was employed at the Association of Banka Slovenije as Deputy Director, including managing risk management areas in banks, bank accounting and reporting, internal and external audits and tax advice. During the six-year term of office of the Deputy Governor, she was, inter alia, the Deputy Governor of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the representative of the Slovenian Central Bank on the Economic and Financial Committee of the Council of the European Union, the Deputy Governor of the Management Board of the Centre for Excellence in Finance. Since September 2019, it has been a responsibility for the supervision of banking, system control and regulation and the central credit register. Together with its colleagues, it strengthened the visibility and credibility of the Slovenian central banking profession within the European Union and in contact with international organisations and new members of the European family. He regularly publishes his professional work and research findings in a number of publications that are available on Banka Slovenije's website. Mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean has been trained in many prominent banking institutions, including the International Monetary Fund in the United States, and has been a member of a number of committees and commissions of the European Commission, the Council of the European Union and the OECD. At the public presentation of her candidacy, she presented a look at the central challenges of Banka Slovenije. The first, in her view, is the crucial role of monetary policy in the euro area, which must remain supportive and provide incentives for economic recovery and the sustainability of public finances. At the same time, with the increasing importance of climate risks, it is in its opinion that socially responsible sustainable investment will need to be strengthened. Another important area is the continued supervision of banking and the ability of banks to adapt to changing business circumstances, increased competition and financial technological changes as soon as possible. A major challenge, however, is, in her view, to consider ways of engaging in productively large amounts of financial resources in the field of the prominent role of the population. The President of the Republic estimates he'll be a mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean has also made an important contribution in advance to the professional, efficient and transparent functioning and international cooperation of the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with its mandate and strategy. It is therefore proposed to become a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije Vice-Governorka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governors will be taken together with the vote on 50a. And 50c. points, immediately after the debate at 50c. agenda items. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 28 June 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Janez Krajnc be elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	The President of the Republic shall, after informing the President of the Constitutional Court of the expiry of his term of office, propose this third time to the National Assembly of the Candidate for the Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Following a thorough reflection, a large number of discussions and consultations held, the President of the Republic decided that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitutional Court Act, which allows him to propose candidates for this place also outside the public call, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the position of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Krajc, Doctor of Legal Sciences, the Decent Professor of Roman Law and Legal History at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, and for German legal terminology at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, an extraordinary member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Dr. Janez Krajnc is undoubtedly one of the most visible legal experts in our country, which also enjoys great reputation in international legal circles. After his degree and a doctoral study, he was first elected professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, then an extraordinary professor and in 1992 a regular professor. He was a researcher at the University of New York, Carlos III University in Madrid, and as an invited guest professor, he taught at the University of Poitiers and at the University of Graz. He served as a prodecan and three dean at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. An international forum has been running at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana since its establishment in 1994. Currently, at the University of Ljubljana, the President of the Ethics Commission is. Dr. Krajnc was, among other things, a member of the Presidency and the President of the European Union of Law Schools, as well as a member and President of the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. He was editor of the first foreign legal journal in Slovenia Law Review and is still a member of the editorial board of some professional legal journals at home and abroad. His bibliography is over 600 units. He is undoubtedly the greatest connoisseur and authority of Roman law in our country. His most important work is the monograph of Roman law, which has already been published in four editions. In 2010, he won the Zois Award for High Achievement in Scientific Research. Dr. Krajnc is the bearer of high domestic and foreign national decorations: the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, the knight of the French Legion of Honor and the knight of the order of the academic palm trees. Recipient of the Austrian Honor Cross for Science and the Art of the First Order. He is an honorary doctor of the University of Poitiers and the University of Leipzig. In 2017 the University of Ljubljana awarded him the title of Deserving Professor, in 2019 he was elected an extraordinary member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Dr. Janez Krajnc enjoys the reputation of an esteemed and excellent legal expert with a high degree of personal integrity. It is distinguished by rich decades of experience in academic, research and other areas of legal science and legal history. As he stressed in the public switch, he will also continue to be committed to the principle of staying at the legal level, where there are no ideological issues, emotionalisation and bias. It wants to preserve the principles and acquisitions that form the basis of the Slovenian Constitution. The President of the Republic is convinced that if elected, Dr Kranjc will undoubtedly make an important contribution to the work and role of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest judicial authority for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country. He therefore proposes to the National Assembly that he appoint the Beneficent Professor Dr. Kranjc as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court needs a judge who is decorated with a sense of justice, a commitment to human rights and freedoms, and an understanding of modern concepts in law. The candidate, 72-year-old Professor Dr. Kranjc, is certainly an authority in the field of Roman law. But we are asked whether the expertise in the field of Roman law is sufficient for a constitutional judge, that is indeed what we need today, not just the Constitutional Court, but the State, society, people, especially in view of the current climates, when government parties deliberately subdue the rule of law and deliberately undermine the foundations of democracy, and in their conduct it is increasingly common to follow the elements of kleptocracy. According to LMŠ, the candidate is not what the Constitutional Court needs, what the country needs, what people need. We are also asked whether in these uncertain times for human rights and freedoms and democracy in the Constitutional Court we can allow for the election of a person who has extremely conservative views on all social and political issues. We're sure as hell not. We would certainly expect the candidate to have very clear views on current issues, but we did not hear them at the presentation or it was more than all blurry. Regarding the constitutional decision on the current and dangerous law on communicable diseases, he said: “It is the same as it is.” He said he didn't know what happened when he took the presidency. He acted evasively and safely if I was mild. The candidate of the SDS party and thus the coalition has not been identified to anything. Sorry, a few years ago, he identified himself with the public support of Janez Janša in the Patrio case. And that's all. We do not know how he feels about the decrees by which the government has consistently restricted human rights. What he thinks about some of the current issues related to the lack of respect for the rule of law, and we do not know what his position is on the ban on referendums. We have repeatedly stated in the LMŠ that the Constitutional Court must consist of judges and judges who understand the role of this institution as a defender of human rights and freedoms and who, among other things, will be able and know how to set a border that must not be crossed. For a constitutional judge, we do not want someone who, even for a moment, would have expressed opposition, doubts about certain rights already acquired, or weighed them, to whom something belongs, and not to whom. On the contrary, we want, and this also separates us from the SDS and the NSI, we expect the strengthening of rights and their growth and understanding of living situations, present and not least modern. We expect justice, we expect the autonomy of judges and judges. In the opinion of the LMŠ, the President of the Republic has not proposed a suitable candidate this time either. He suggested someone who is very similar to him in his non-expression, but it is time for us to return to the present from the past, which is personalized by the Prime Minister. It is time for a candidate who can look ahead and understand the modern concepts of law that are the consequences of rapid development. In LMŠ we are convinced that the candidate is not such a person. On the contrary. I could live in the past with the Prime Minister, which is dangerous. And that is why today's vote is still important. That is why we also publicly say in the LMŠ that we will vote in secret against the candidate for a constitutional judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! When the state takes over the regime we have today in Slovenia, the company will determine why we actually have a Constitutional Court. Although President Pahor has chosen the opportunity to propose the candidate himself, as we have also proposed to him several times, our assessment is that this time the choice was quite wrong. In the past, we have seen that the President of the Republic, with compromises and concessions to the right, has actually put the Constitutional Court in a situation in which we today, when we have clearly defined constitutional judges, who are short on cheerleading to certain political parties, exactly, say, double Dr. Jaklic. Mr Krajnc, a candidate for a constitutional judge, is indeed an expert in Roman law, but his views on social development and social development have also been consistent for the past two thousand years. What we were able to find in our discussions with former colleagues, students, including those who completed the studies and continued them, his views on the equality of women in society, to equality between classes, if you like – you could read today how he opposed the fact that representatives of employees would have a voice in the university Senate and so on – belong in some other times, in times like two thousand years ago when we had castes in this society. But today, the Constitutional Court, once again, because of the regime in which we live, should have different constitutional judges, should have constitutional judges who understand the importance of human rights, who understand what freedoms and rights have been allocated in the last century, who understand what current social events mean, even in the context of the coronacrisy. It is precisely the Constitutional Court that, because of the current government, the current regime, is likely to have much work to do. The already mentioned law on communicable diseases has shown that the authorities can go across borders, and the Constitutional Court is the one who, like one last instance in our country, can say that these boundaries have been violated. Unfortunately, however, the proposal put forward by the President of the Republic to the National Assembly casts considerable doubt on the possibility of carrying out such a task. As it is said, because of its conservative views, which can be confirmed by a number of sources in private, and very intertwined or non-existent public positions, unless he was able to take a very active stand on the side of Janez Janša in the case of Patrio, we can only draw the conclusion that Mr Krajnc is a candidate for the current regime and, as such, is absolutely inappropriate for a judge of the Constitutional Court. All votes of the Left Party will go against this candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a joint vote on the Proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, the Proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor and the Proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia and Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly on the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor and the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Franc Breznik, SDS, Andreja Zabret, LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija, Left and Blaž Pavlin, NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? No, no, no. we are moving to a vote or a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 85 votes against 2. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member coming to the Chair's table and giving its name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or the word AGAIN on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor will be appointed, if the majority of all Members and Members vote in favour, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that during a secret vote in the Chamber persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 3 p.m. for 40 minutes and will continue until 16 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4:50 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.24 p.m. and resumed at 16.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mrs. Kovac! We continue with the adjourned session and the 50th item of the agenda, the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a candidate for Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. I am reading further the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of Dr Damjan Kukovec as Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 13 July 2021. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 ballots were delivered, no votes were valid. There were 89 votes in favour, 74 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Damjan Kukovec was elected candidate for Judgeship in the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg by a majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations, Dr. Damian Kukovec. We continue to consider the proposal to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor. Let me read this record. The vote took place today in the Houses of the National Assembly. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 ballots were delivered, no votes were valid. There were 89 votes in favour, 67 votes against, 22 votes against. Based on the outcome, the vote is mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean by a majority of the votes of all Members appointed as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor. The term of office shall begin to run seven. Ten. 2021. Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia - Vice-Governor mag. Irni Waterbender Jean congratulations and I wish her a successful job. We continue to examine the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes. The vote was open to the National Assembly on 13. Seven. 2021. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 88 ballots were valid. Forty-five members voted against. The candidate, Dr. Janez Kranjc, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he was not elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Since Dr Janez Kranjc has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, elections shall be held on the basis of a new proposal by the President of the Republic. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal to Appoint an Advocate of the principle of equality. On 21 June 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed that the National Assembly appoint Miho Lobnik as an advocate of the principle of equality. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! A five-year term of office shall expire on 25 October this year, in favour of the principle of equality. At the invitation of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic has received one nomination from the current Advocate of the principle of equality of Mr Miha Lobnik. Following discussions and consultations with the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as an advocate, Miho Lobnik, a university graduate sociologist, who had been active and recognized in various areas of civil society's activities related to individual circumstances of discrimination before his first appointment. In 2016, his proposal for a personal signature candidate was supported by 59 candidates and candidates from various spheres of social life in Slovenia. During the previous term of office, Miha Lobnik established a new body in the role of advocate of the principle of equality, provided for by the adopted law on protection against discrimination. He has done more than successfully. Slovenia has progressed from a Member of the Union, which has been lagging behind in this area, to the status of a country which has an exemplary institutional function in this sensitive and difficult area. The well-placement of the Advocate in the context of the related institutions of the Member States of the European Union also confirms the election of Miha Lobnik to the Executive Committee of the European Equality Authorities in October 2019. Miha Lobnik, among other things, has demonstrated excellent organisational and managerial skills by ensuring that the new body has the basic conditions for the legitimate, professional and efficient functioning of the new body. Today, the advocate is involved in constructive and close cooperation with other state institutions, he has arranged for an inclusive dialogue with external stakeholders and an effective organisation of work within the institution. A system of support and advice is in place for all those who turn to the body of the advocate in their tribulations. As he pointed out in the public presentation, they help and advise all those who feel that they have been treated unevenly because of personal circumstances that they have not chosen. At the same time, it systematically monitors the situation in the field of discrimination, informs the public of its possibilities and makes recommendations. In this important area of equality, the Republic of Slovenia has gained reputation and visibility in the international public. The candidate estimates that there is more discrimination in our society than there is to be reported, so he believes that there should be fundamental principles for a vision of the action of the advocate in the future, particularly dialogue and inclusive cooperation with all vulnerable groups, the media and the public, and all other stakeholders, while at the same time carrying out high-quality and organisational dialogue tasks. The President of the Republic estimates that Mr Miha Lobnik, in view of his successful work and the movements he has achieved as the current advocate of the principle of equality, will also carry out the entrusted task in advance with the highest degree of expertise and diligence. It therefore proposes to the National Assembly to elect Miho Lobnik as advocate of the principle of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the principle of equality for a period of five years Miha Lobnik. His mandate begins on 26 October 2021. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Stanka Živič as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Vladimir Horvat, President of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. The Council of Justice also held proceedings concerning the application for a Supreme Court Judge in the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court for candidate Stanko Zivič. The Council of Justice carried out the selection procedure in the three stages prescribed. In the first stage, he verified the fulfilment of the tendering conditions of both applicants and, in the second stage, carried out an assessment of the eligible candidates and, in the third stage, the choice itself on the basis of the interview. Following such a procedure, it had to take into account all objective legal criteria and criteria for the selection of judges, including this highest judicial position, taking into account the judicial career of the candidates applied for. As regards the candidate Stanka Zivič, he noted that the candidate has a long-standing successful judicial career and a higher average expertise in the field of criminal law and high performance. He has served as a judge for more than 32 years, of which more than fourteen years have served as a senior judge in the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. As early as 2016, the Council of Justice found that Stanka Živič is a superior judge, who, after her performance and quality of work, has consistently and positively deviated from her colleagues and has therefore progressed faster towards the position of a senior judge of the Council. The latest assessment of the judicial service also confirms that it is an experienced judge who is responsible and committed to his profession. It is sovereign and impartial in decision-making, its decision-making ability in complex and complex cases, the quality of its decisions, the ability to reason and the ability to express in writing and verbal terms are experienced at the level of a higher judge. The additional candidate is also awarded an adjustment and professional attitude towards residence colleagues, judicial staff and clients. That is why the Council of Justice proposes to appoint her to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Senior Judge Stanka Zivič has a long career to her, but unfortunately, she was intertwined with double judgements and scandals. She was appointed a judge in the mid-1980s, but we did not get an answer where Zivič performed two years of judicial traineeship before she became a judge, which is now and then, under the Law on Courts, a requirement for admission to judicial service. At the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, they say that they do not have specific information where and when she conducted the judicial traineeship, nor does the Ministry of Justice have this information. Zivič's history was joined by an unusual decision in the proceedings against priest France Klopčič, who was accused of sexual abuse by a girl eight years earlier in 2012. The priest from Preska Klopčič did not accept the offer of the prosecution to settle for a minor sentence and insisted that he was innocent. The Court of First Instance also pardoned the priest, but the Supreme Court, where the rapporteur Judge Zivičeva was, without being examined by the same evidence, turned the exoneration judgment into a multiannual prison sentence at the cabinet meeting. The Supreme Court later annulled this decision due to a cardinal error in the proceedings and demanded a new trial before a fully amended Chamber. The principle of directity and contradiction was violated. Similarly, the unusual trial of Judge Zivičeva would be in the case of Novič, where she was a rapporteur. In this case, the complaint to counsel Milka Novič that Janko Jamnik did not end up in front of the ViaBona in December 2014 in front of the ViaBona restaurant with two shots to the head, the Senate in which Ziviča was in prison refused and extended the detention to the accused. The Supreme Court subsequently annulled these judgments and demanded a retrial. Finally, Mr. Novelt was acquitted of all charges. On top of that, Stanka Zivič, who forgave the bankruptcy manager Branet Goršet, was the abuse of the position on the case of HKS Sicura, a regular party participant at which the judges associated with the administrators, which shows a clear conflict of interest. On the basis of all the above-mentioned cases and the summary judgments, where the decisions of Živič at higher rates were often rejected, we doubt in the SDS the suitability of Stanka Živič for the Supreme Judge. The integrity of independence, impartiality are qualities necessary for the Supreme Judges and they are not met by the judge. In the SDS we will vote against the appointment of Stanka Zivič as supreme judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. Dear Mr. Vladimir Horvat, would you like to discuss this further? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Where the judge conducted the judicial internship, as I know, she performed it in Ljubljana. With regard to the specific cases that have been presented, I have previously pointed out that the Council of Justice cannot judge individual cases. This is about the appearance of impartiality and also about independence alone and the autonomy of the judge in specific cases. The judicial work is always checked through a system of regular and extraordinary legal remedies. The Council of Justice therefore always considers the full judicial work or judicial career of individual candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Stanka Živič at the Supreme Court of Slovenia. Colleague Masha Kociper, explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Procedural. Please, President, if, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, you can give me 15 minutes to consult the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. for 21 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 17.06 and resumed at 17.21.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting. We're moving to the vote. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SAB Group, I say that we will vote in favour of the approval or appointment of a judge to the post of Supreme Court. It is unacceptable that in the course of a multi-year career of a judge, his work is left to individual judgements on a case-by-case basis. I don't know the lady well enough to judge her work, and I don't hope so. However, her work was judged, as it should, through her career path, through her advancements, the achievement of standards and so forth by the Council of Justice, which judged that she was an appropriate candidate. The fact that politics comes and in a few cases, the criminal judge has hundreds of such cases in 30 years, estimates that someone is suitable or inappropriate is totally unacceptable. The priest was forgiven first, and then convicted. Give me a break, will you?Oh, my God! Do you know how many times this happens? The fact that someone has been convicted in spite of the cavalries and that such a conviction has been carried out means that all the evidence has apparently been given. I can think of this because it was said at the MVK that this judge, after an accident, participated in some kind of property, I don't even know if she was judging or was only in any Senate that ruled the Novič case, and therefore is no longer suitable for the SDS party as a supreme judge. We in the SAB party will confirm both proposals for the Supreme Judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 42 to 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is not to be applauded. I find this rather sad for this Parliament. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of magi. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Vladimir Horvat, President of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Like I said before. [[microphone off]] The selection board highlights a long-standing successful judicial career in the field of criminal law, as well as a high level of expertise in professional meetings and in the field of publicist activity at home and abroad. The candidate has served as a judge in the penal area for more than 23 years, of which more than 15 years have served as a senior judge in the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court in Maribor. At the same time, he is also more professionally active. In addition to the master’s title, which has deepened the knowledge of criminal law at academic level, there are a number of professional articles and scientific contributions from the field of criminal law at conferences at home and abroad. He is also involved in the preparation of the general part of the Penal Code and has been invited to a group of authors to comment on the Criminal Procedure Act. I would also like to point out that the criminal department of the Supreme Court has a staff gap. In a short period of time, two judges will retire and the Council of Justice has also merged two proceedings and has yet to carry out an additional standing procedure in the event of an additional invitation to tender, which is all based on the documentation submitted. On the basis of objective criteria, and also in this case on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the candidate's career path, the Council decided to propose the appointment of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we point out many times that a fundamental change in the justice system is needed not only in the substantive sense but also in the field of human resources policy. The fact is that the effectiveness of justice in Slovenia is significantly lower than the average in the Member States of the European Union. Slovenia is often at the forefront of human rights violations. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly pointed out that in many cases judicial proceedings take an unreasonable period. Judges who do not provide an impartial trial and cause an obvious appearance of bias are often not excluded from court proceedings. That is exactly the case with Judge Karakash, whom we will not support in the SDS Group as a candidate. And it is because of such cases that 70% of people do not trust in the justice system in Slovenia. The judiciary should only respond to this by providing quality human resources, by actively analysing the system and eliminating or sanctioning bad work, as is usually the case in other areas. Mr Karakash, candidate for the Supreme Judge, participated in the Senate, which ruled on the expulsion of Judge Žirovnik on the Kangler case, where it was clear that it was a conflict of interest. And if the judge is not expelled from the decision, the condition of fair and impartial trial or appearance of impartiality will not be ensured. Mr. Žirovnik was before he became Judge, Director of the Owl. Mr Kangler was then a Member and President of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, which supervised Mr Žirovnik and the Sovo. When Mr Žirovnik became a judge and was appointed for example Kangler, Mr Kangler's representative referred to the conflict of interest and should be removed from the proceedings. Here Mr Karakash, as chairman of the Senate, did not perform his duties under a law which, in such a case, provides for the appointment of a judge who may be biased. In the impartiality of Judge Žirovnik, who signed all the orders for covert measures against France Kangler, the Mursko-bedroom judge Natalija Goldinski Husar questioned the fact that the evidence was obtained in her opinion by violating the defendant's right to an impartial trial. On this basis, the prosecution withdrew from prosecution. This is a bold case against the former Member and the mayor against whom 25 proceedings have been brought, but they have all fallen before the prosecution, in the court, one even in the Supreme Court, and in no case has Mr Kangler been convicted or the decisions have been annulled. The Council of Justice has already proposed Mr Karakash as supreme judge at the end of 2016, but has not received support in the National Assembly. Back then, we Members asked the Council of Justice to clarify the dilemmas that we highlighted, but there were no answers, nor was there any answers this time. Mr Marko Bosnjak, now a judge in the European Court of Human Rights, said at the time that Mr Kangler had been severely violated in these proceedings. However, this procedure was later repealed. The same negative attitude towards the conduct of the prosecution and the court in the Kangler case was expressed by former Constitutional Judge Dr. Cyril Ribičič. Five years ago, only one member voted in favour of Mr Karakash at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and 12 members voted against. At the meeting of the National Assembly, 32 votes in favour and 36 votes in favour, so that Mr Karakash was not elected supreme judge. Members of the SDS, NSI, Desus, SAB and several SD Members voted against. We will not support Mr Karakash in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Dear Mr. Vladimir Horvat, would you like to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Alexander Karakash. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We will also vote in favour of the SAB Group here. The explanation is similar to the previous one with the following addition. I cannot say, of course, 100%, but I can say 90% that we will vote for it also because the SDS Group here has been deceiving. I was present on the MVK Committee, where they first claimed that Mr Karakash had participated as a judge in one of the proceedings against Mr Kangler. The representative of the Council of Justice denied this and it was clear from the representative of the Council that Mr Karakaš was one of the members of the Senate, the Senate ruling of several judges who had ruled on the expulsion proved in one of the proceedings, that the true basic Senate had said that some of the evidence should not be excluded and that, due to the complaint, the Board of Appeal had decided on the matter, and in this Chamber the poor man was what his name was, Mr Karakash, who did not even judge in any of Kangler's cases, only the poor man was in one of Kangler's cases in the Senate, who did not decide to exclude one of the evidence because he was so convinced. I hear for the first time that the Senate decides to replace the judge, that's for the President of the Court to decide. So there's still deception in addition to everything. However, I see that no criminal judge who has ever just approached any of Kangler's 25 cases, and even if he wasn't completely guilty, he won't be able to be elected Judge of the Supreme Court. Shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, he has the word Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. As I have said several times and as the former President of the Constitutional Court has warned. The fact that we in the National Assembly implore judges and judges of the regular courts is the residential of the old system and the one mind. I personally believe that we should go into constitutional change and that the third branch of power, with its own autonomy, with its own responsibility, aware of the difficulties it has, will long for its people, if I so express myself. Thank you. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court in the Koper District Court. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Polona Veberič as a judge at the District Court in the District Court in Koper. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Polona Veberič as Judge of the District Court in the Koper District Court. There are 85 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to appoint five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board for the period until the end of the term of office of the members appointed by the decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board of 14. 12. 2017, appoints mag. Alexander Kotnik. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a Member and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to dismiss a member of Jerco Korče in the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission and Brana Golubović as a member. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of the members of the assembly vote for it. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. I inform you that at 5:50 p.m., the 78th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin.
