ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole from 9 a.m. to 15 p.m., Bogdan Barovic, Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlich and Mag. Branko Grimes. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY – This is on the proposal for a law supplementing the law on detective activity, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. The proposal for a law is set out at the first meeting of the 20th session. Seven. 2010 addressed the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, have a nice day before the start of my presentation! The latest amendments to the law on detective activity have put aside the restriction that only Slovenian citizens can obtain a license to carry out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Certain obstacles to the provision of individual detective services to foreigners have also changed. According to the new Slovenian space, it is also open to the operations of foreign detectives, according to the European Union or the Swiss Confederation. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group has already joined in the process of enacting the law with warnings from the State Council Committee on State Procedure, which at that time expressed the idea of deleting the condition of the active knowledge of the Slovenian language for carrying out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia, because this is not in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution under which the official language of the Slovenian language is used. We also agreed that Slovenian consumers have the right to communicate in their mother tongue. Because in the Slovenian People's Party Group we appreciate Slovenian language and because we want our institutions to give more attention to language policy and care for the use of their own language, the Slovenian language at home and the institutions of the European Union in the future, we will today support the proposal of the State Council to supplement the law on detective activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The previous amendment to the law on detective activity was adopted in March of this year by the State Council. Members of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, who, in addition to removing the condition of citizenship, also removed the condition of knowledge of the Slovenian language for carrying out the detective activity, expressly opposed. The condition of active control of the Slovenian language is one of the key conditions for the quality of carrying out specific activities such as detectives. Despite the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is a free movement of labour one of its fundamental freedoms, we in the Slovenian National Party Group feel that the condition of active knowledge of Slovenian language in carrying out detective activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should be reintroduced into the law under consideration. We therefore support the current novel of the National Council, which places the active management of the Slovenian language as a condition for obtaining a license to carry out detective activities. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides clearly and unequivocally that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. Moreover, the law does not limit the exercise of activities by other citizens of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation to a certain condition of Slovenian knowledge in carrying out a detective activity, since each Member State of the European Union may freely lay down the conditions for the exercise of a particular profession in its territory. It is only necessary to respect the principle of equality, so that the same conditions apply to domestic and foreign citizens. We will therefore not support the decision of the home working body in the Slovenian National Party Group. In doing so, we would like to appeal again to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay more attention to the preservation of the national language, which is undoubtedly the basis of every nation and country, including Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The law governing detective activity must contain restrictions based on the protection of public interest. The conditions for obtaining licences and service cards must be transparent and clear, and the protection of public interest is strong because it is an activity in which it can interfere with human rights and which has a strong impact on one of human fundamental rights and goods: the security and privacy of the individual. Among the documents referring to the request for language knowledge, let us mention the code of conduct approved by the group of coordinators by the Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, in which the Commission, as a recommended national practice with regard to language learning requirements in relation to the above-mentioned case-law, recommends that recognition of professional qualifications is not subject to language skills unless it is part of qualifications, such as logopeds, and that the principle of proportionality be respected. Only on a case-by-case basis should it be checked that the language knowledge is proportionate or that the language knowledge requirement is not systematically applied. We believe that for a profession such as a detective, we will not be able to justify and justify the requirements for the prescribed active knowledge of the Slovenian language or the requirement for systematic examination of the knowledge of the Slovenian language before the European Commission. In the field of detective activity, public interest does not require regulation of this issue, as communication between potential foreign detectives can also be provided in a different way, such as through an interpreter or translator. The choice of a detective should be left to the market and the contracting authority of the detective activity should choose whether to hire a detective who knows a particular language to carry out the detective activity, that is, a Slovenian language. In preparation, a new law on detective activity, which will address some of the inconsistencies created by several amendments and additions, will also specify more precisely the training of detectives and the conduct of a detective examination, which will be a prerequisite for obtaining a license to carry out detective activities. The law will be dealt with in the ordinary legal procedure, but the provisions relating to the fulfilment of the conditions of active knowledge of the Slovenian language because of the described and reasoned discrimination as a condition for obtaining a licence do not intend to change, since any restrictions which do not concern grounds of public interest, such as the protection of the life and health of persons, public order, public security or the protection of property, do not comply with the applicable legal principles. Therefore, we do not support the proposed law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Detective Activity, submitted to the National Council for consideration by the State Council, reintroduces the condition of the active knowledge of the Slovenian language for obtaining a licence for carrying out detective activities, adopted in April 2010 by the new law on detective activities and deleted it. Active knowledge of the Slovenian language is thus the first condition for carrying out activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia due to knowledge of relevant material, but also due to the possibility of quality communication. The SD Group joins the Government's opinion and does not support the proposed law. The basic objective of the law is to comply with the Internal Market Services Directive. In view of the basic objectives of this Directive, the introduction of the requirement of active knowledge of the Slovenian language as a condition for obtaining a licence would be disproportionate to the objectives pursued. The SD Group also considers that the requirement for active knowledge of the domestic language does not justify any pre-restriction in the acquisition of licences for the conduct of activities defined by the Directive, including a detective activity. The legal practice of the European courts confirms this. In some judgments, the Court stated that systematic verification of language skills is not necessary in advance when the protection of individuals is provided by other measures. The official language means that the authorities of the state administration operate in these languages, not that a detective operating in Slovenia needs to know these languages. The explanation of the bill clearly states that the translation of documents into Slovenian is required to obtain a licence and the right to carry out the activities of foreign detectives. Similarly, a detective who does not know the Slovenian language will have to operate in the Slovenian language directly through a translator or interpreter. We advocate the use of the Slovenian language and other official languages of the Republic of Slovenia before the authorities of the state administration and in business with the parties. The same must be actively mastered by the Slovenian language of persons who issue public powers - inspectors, police officers. By no means can we, on the basis of the tasks to be performed by the detective, claim by law that the detectives exercise public powers where a legitimate or proportionate requirement for knowledge of the Slovenian language would be exercised. The verification of language skills is not linked to the recognition procedure relating to professional qualifications. Systematic testing of language skills is therefore not necessary in advance where other measures are provided to ensure the protection of consumers and the proper implementation of legislation. The Courts point out that the requirement for language knowledge must be proportionate to what is necessary to carry out the profession in the host country. However, the principle of proportionality excludes systematic or standardised verification of language skills. Moreover, such a requirement discriminates against persons from EU Member States, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. The Law on the Public Use of Slovenian in Article 7 provides that knowledge of Slovenian is necessary for individual professions or jobs in public authorities and bodies of local self-government and for holders of public powers. One is the exercise of public powers and the other is professional qualifications and licences. The providers, the providers of detective services, should themselves endeavour to obtain as many customers as possible and the customer may decide who it chooses to perform a service for it. This will be in the interest of the detective himself to act in a way that will be as competitive as possible and will learn the Slovenian language if he decides that he needs it to carry out his activities. We do not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activities, as it is said, but we do need to mention the Government's intention to fully regulate the scope of the security services, the rights and duties of operators and their status. The questions we have so far are yet to be met. The regime currently adopted does not need to be changed in the direction proposed by the State Council at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u10	Your Honor, the President. Your Honor, Minister. Dear fellows! First, I find out that the government has no position because she hasn't told him. And now we follow our position. As a proposal for a new law on detective activity, the Council of State proposes to reintroduce the condition of active control of the Slovenian language during the conditions for obtaining a detective's license. This condition is the last novelty proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, outlined on the basis of compliance with the conditions of non-discrimination. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly drew attention to the issue of the deletion of the condition of active control of the Slovenian language. He also drew attention to the issue by the Council of State, which voted veto on the government's bill of marriage. The Slovenian language is a value, which we strongly like to stress in public, and we prefer to forget that when we are placed before we comply with European legislation. Without the Slovenian language, we simply cannot talk about preserving the Slovenian identity, culture and also the country. After all, the Slovenian language is also protected by the Slovenian Constitution. We are therefore wondering why the original proponents so deemed to have denied their mother tongue and their national language. It is certainly difficult to understand that they have so easily deviated from the requirement to actively control the Slovenian language between the conditions for obtaining a detective's license. The Directive of the European Union is also undeniably clear in this regard that it should not be required from the State to take such measures as would be contrary to the interests of preserving its language and preserving cultural or linguistic diversity, provided that we quote this Directive in more detail. With the proposal of the Council of State to reintroduce the active control of the Slovenian language into the conditions for obtaining the license of a detective who, unfortunately, did not receive the support of the Government and Members of the coalition on the committee, would not have had a detrimental effect, but would have protected the Slovenian language, which is also protected by the Constitution. Slovenian citizens and citizens are likely to rightly expect to be able to communicate with the detective in their own country in their official language if it comes to him. A foreign detective will also have to speak and control him according to the work he does. It will also be clear that there will be no misunderstandings in the agreement or even worse. It is easy to imagine that inappropriate or difficult language communication would result in additional unpleasant inconveniences that the detective’s work in itself brings. In the SDS Group for these reasons, we believe that the Slovenian language as well as the users of detective services should be protected, so that in Slovenia they will carry out the detective activity of persons who actively control the Slovenian language, which would also be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we will support such a novelty of the law on detective activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. However, I would point out that the Committee of Members has not adopted the second reading and therefore, in accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it follows from the presentation of the views of the groups of Members that this procedure is terminated. In this procedure, the Government no longer has a chance to speak. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item – Defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on public meetings, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Bojan Kontic. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on public meetings was submitted to the Committee by a group of Members with a first-signed Bojan Kontic. The Committee considered it at its 20th session. Seven. 2010 However, the College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 65th session. 6. 2010 provided that the law would be dealt with in a simplified manner. The members and members of the Committee received as material a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations and the opinion of the Government. On behalf of the applicants, a further explanation was provided by the Member of the Commission, Dr Luka Juri. He explained that the basic objective of the bill is to supplement Article 14 of the Law on Public Assembly, so that the organisation of public meetings is burdened by the need for the consent of the owner when it comes to meeting on a public surface which is of a nature of public good and is intended to gather people and use them freely, and the implementation of the meeting is not contrary to its interest. Mrs Horvatova, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said in her presentation of their opinion that the Legislative and Legal Service in relation to the law submitted considers that it disproportionately restricts property rights to the public good. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further said that the addition of the proposed amendment to Article 14, paragraph 14, to the text that this provision applied only to public meetings and not to public events, which would contribute to greater clarity of the legislative text. The representative of the Government, Deputy Director-General at the Ministry of the Interior, Mrs Iris Jeglič presented the position of the Government, which supports this bill. A written opinion was also submitted. The draft law was given the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure, which concludes that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. The Committee also adopted the amendment to Article 1 in accordance with a notice from the Legal and Legislative Service, adding the text that the provision of this law applies only to public meetings and not to public events. On the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the amendment and then on the articles together. The draft law was fully and unanimously supported. The bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u14	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law. In view of the fact that in some cases local communities have already renounced the issue of consent and thus tried to restrict the right of peaceful elections and public assemblies through the Constitution, the law will provide greater clarity on the provisions of Article 14 of the Law on Public Assembly. The consent of the owner or owner or manager or the land manager is therefore not necessary if a meeting on a public surface is to be held, which has the character of a built public good and is intended to gather people and its free use, and the implementation of the meeting is not contrary to its purpose. This amendment to the law does not therefore apply to the organisation of public meetings on a public good, such as markets, playgrounds, parking lots, cemeteryes, parks, local roads, as these areas are not intended for the free use and collection of people, but are built for a specific purpose and therefore will still need the consent of local communities for these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be moved by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! With regard to public events and public meetings, where a large number of persons are usually gathered, let me first point out that it is the primary duty of the State to ensure such measures, so that the life and health of both participants and others are not compromised by public transport, and that the environment is not unduly burdened. In this light, the current law on public gatherings is established. Despite good law, there are in practice ambiguities regarding the application of public gatherings on land owned or managed by the local community. The organiser of the public meeting shall, inter alia, provide the owner's or the manager's consent and proof of the notification of the local community. Given that both consent and notification often touch the same entity, this is a local community, it is a reasonable proposal made by this amendment to relieve the organizer of a public meeting of the need for the consent of the owner or manager when it comes to publicly accessible land and the meeting does not limit the normal course of activity. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such legislation will help to facilitate implementation in practice, to remove the confusion that has arisen in this regard, and also to relieve the organiser in terms of making it easier to obtain the necessary documentation, so we will also unanimously support the proposal that we cosign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u18	Your Honor! The Public Assembly Act already allows for the free collection of citizens and lays down the procedure for applying for public assembly. The proposal for a new Law on Public Collections, which seeks to regulate the exercise of the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and public assembly at public meetings, is of the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, but does not impose any restrictions that are permissible under Article 42 of the Constitution only in cases of threats to fundamental values such as State security, public safety and the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases. The law in force in Article 14 provides that the organiser must also attach the consent of the owner or manager of the land where the meeting is organised to the application for the authorisation of the public meeting and proof that the meeting has been notified by the local community. Since meetings are largely organised on public surfaces, the current local community arrangement allows them to refuse to give up their consent and thus prevent meetings from happening when, perhaps for certain reasons, they assess that they do not want such meetings. The basic objective of the proposal to supplement the Law on Public Collections is therefore to regulate the amendment of Article 14 of the Law on Public Collections in such a way that the organization of public meetings will no longer require the consent of the owner when it comes to publicly accessible land and the meeting does not limit the normal course of activity that occurs on such land or land that does not damage it. The proposed amendment to the Act complements Article 14 by specifically laying down the conditions for the implementation of a public meeting if it is organised on a public surface which has the character of a built public good and is intended for the general use and collection of people. The position of the applicants is that the substantive law is not being amended, but is only being clarified more precisely due to compliance with Article 42 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to public assembly, and the proposal of the law seeks to clarify in particular the applicable legal dictatorship for public meetings and not for public events. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Collections.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u20	Hello again! The right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is guaranteed in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the legal restrictions on this right are permissible if this requires the security of the State, public safety or safety against the spread of communicable diseases. The right to assembly and association stems from the principle of democracy and is closely linked to freedom of expression. The way in which the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies is exercised is governed by the law on public meetings, which provides, inter alia, that everyone has the right to organise and attend public meetings and public events. The obligation to obtain the consent of the owner, the land manager or the place where the meeting is organised is a secured ownership right, but the consent of the local community is necessary under the applicable law only in cases where the meeting takes place on otherwise public areas, which are not intended for the free use and collection of citizens. For example, a public parking lot, vegetables, playgrounds and so on. We believe that if a meeting is organised on a public surface, which is of a public good nature and is intended for the general use of people and their collection, the local community, as the owner or user of such a place of gathering of people, cannot limit. The second paragraph of Article 19 of the Real Law provides that, in this case, goods intended for general, equal use of citizens are to be used equally. Above public goods, no one has an absolute ownership right, which is also a real law code in the same article, inter alia, that public goods are a good thing that everyone uses in accordance with its purpose. Thus, if a meeting is held on a public surface of public good and no one has absolute ownership rights, the right to public assembly is stronger in this case than the ownership right of the congregation or the local community. The Law thus provides that the consent of the congregation is not necessary if the meeting is organised on a public surface, which is also intended to gather people and use them freely, such as markets, and the implementation of the meeting is not contrary to its purpose. The organisation of and participation in a public meeting is a political right and it is therefore permissible to impose a minimum barrier where this requires the security of the State or public safety or security against the spread of communicable diseases, which other legal arrangements allow. However, the local community will only be able to give up its consent in cases of inadmissible use which would oppose the purpose and the legal regime on the property itself. Both the State and the local community must ensure that fundamental human rights can be realized, especially when universally accessible and all related property are used for this purpose. The proposed amendment of the law provides for greater clarity in the legal provision and, last but not least, the clarity of the legislation currently in force also provides a warning to the Ombudsman. For these reasons, we support the proposal of the Law on Complementation of the Law on Public Collections in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. The Group of Members and Members proposing the amendment of the Law on Public Collections proposes to supplement Article 14 of the Law on Public Collections by discharging the need for the consent of the owner when it comes to meeting on a public surface which is of a public good nature and which is intended to gather people and use them freely, and the implementation of the meeting is not contrary to its purpose. This should address the confusion that has arisen in practice in the event of a declaration of public gathering on land where the owner or manager is a local community. At the time of the notification of the meeting, the organiser shall provide the information to be carried out pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Public Collections and shall also give the consent of the owner or operator of the land or the place where the meeting or event is organised and evidence that the local community has informed the local community of the meeting or of the event. In practice, there were different interpretations when a public meeting took place on land where the owner of the local community is, whether there is a need for agreement in this case or only to inform the local community. However, in spite of the appearance of desirable indications in the explanation and the proposals for a solution that the public meeting organiser is also administratively burdened, it should be stressed that, in practice, there will be a significant need for greater attention and duty on the part of the competent authorities involved in the public meetings, public meetings or public events in order to avoid harm to people and damage to public goods. The fact is that organising and participating in a public meeting is a constitutional right and therefore it is only possible to set minimum barriers, such as human security, state security and public benefit. However, the local community will be able to deny consent in cases of illicit use which would oppose the purpose and the legal regime on the property itself. The State and the local community must provide opportunities for the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms, particularly in cases where generally accessible property is used for this purpose. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, an amendment has been adopted on the Committee, that the proposed regulation applies only to public meetings and not to public events, and that the law constitutes a sufficient guarantee that there will be no harm to people and damage to public goods, the legal text is more specific and so the law is appropriate, as it follows the constitutional right to organise a public meeting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the law or we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u24	Dear President, Honourable Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Collections is to regulate Article 14 of the Law by discharging the need for the consent of the owner when it comes to publicly accessible land and meeting does not limit the normal course of activity that occurs on such land and does not damage the land. Finally, some recent developments, such as those in Cyprus, have pointed out clearly the need for regulation or clear and constitutionally harmonised definitions of that article, but we also suggest that others who, in the absence of adequate and restrictive interpretation of the law, have reflected the arbitrary abuse of that law, and the clear purpose of the local authorities to restrict the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens to public collection and expression not only for rational or understandable reasons that lead to the security of people and the protection of public and private property. In accordance with Article 14, the consent of the owner or owner or land manager is not necessary if a meeting on a public surface is to be held, which is of a public nature and is intended to gather and use people, and the meeting is not contrary to its purpose. The law now in force allowed local communities to refuse or give their consent and thus prevent meetings from happening when, for example, for political or other reasons, they assess that they do not want such meetings. All of this raises the question of how property rights are regulated on these surfaces. While the obligation to obtain the consent of the owner or the operator of the land where the meeting is organised is a secured property right, the ownership right may also be limited under certain conditions. Consent is required under the applicable law only in cases where a meeting takes place on other public areas, but which are not intended for the free use and collection of citizens, such as public parking, playgrounds and so on. Where a meeting is organised on a public surface which is of a public good nature, no one may have absolute property rights on such a surface, so the right to public gathering is stronger than the property right of the municipality and the meeting must be organised on a market or other area which is an open space surrounded by buildings and suitable for meeting and gathering people. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the amendment of Article 14 introduces greater clarity into the law, because it was precisely because of the vagueness of the provision mentioned that it was in practice that the mayor did not want to give consent without justification for the meeting. We also wish to draw attention to the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies already provided in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 42nd Article. The Emissary Group will really support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposers tabled a proposal for a law on public gatherings in order to relieve the need for the consent of the owner when it comes to a meeting on a public surface which has the character of a built public good and is intended to gather people and use it freely, and the implementation of the meeting is not contrary to its purpose. It is now in force that a discretionary option is left to the local community to deny consent by ad hoc explanations, thus preventing public meetings from being held when, for political or other reasons, it considers that it does not want such a meeting. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia already guarantees the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies if they are not contrary to the security of the State or public security. In this respect, we will support the proposed amendment to the law so that there will no longer be restrictions on constitutional rights on the part of one, once another, local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Seven. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — Second defence of the law on the application of public funds rights, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds is to create a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. A more transparent and simpler system of social transfers will enable those who really need to be helped to avoid the exploitation and misuse of the system. The new solutions are aimed at preventing the accumulation of social rights and the abolition of the system of related rights, changing the level and criteria for individual rights, with the aim of increasing incentives for work and reducing the traps of poverty and the unemployed. These goals will be achieved by establishing a circle of people based on the duty of survival. In the circle of persons who are taken into account in determining the material situation, the principle takes into account the spouse or person with whom the investor lives in a living community, which, under the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, is equivalent in legal effect to the marriage relationship, and the children and pastors who are obliged to live under law by investors or their partners. We will identify revenue based on the principle that all income and revenue should be taken into account, except those allocated for a specific purpose or intended to cover specific needs. As a property to be taken into account in determining the material situation, the law provides for immovable property over the value of a suitable dwelling or housing, personal and other vehicles, watercraft, commercial or cooperative ownership, securities, money in a transaction or other account, savings deposits and other cash following a client’s declaration and other immovable property. Social work centres will decide on those rights by law, in accordance with a specific order which the applicant is obliged to comply with. The procedure for rights from public funds is under way by decision at the Centre for Social Work, which is a single entry point. Rights shall be exercised by one application for an individual investor. The Centre for Social Work decides on all social transfers by one decision, which means a substantial simplification of the procedure, as well as a more friendly approach to citizens, beneficiaries. The Ministry of Social Affairs must establish a single information system to contain the data from the official databases necessary to decide on all rights from public funds by the time of application of this Act. This will make it easier to make decisions, as well as easier to plan policies to increase social inclusion, monitor the situation and carry out research and statistical activities. The main content solutions relate to four cash receipts and nine different subsidies. Let me put in particular the following. First of all, the kid's allowance. Children under the age of 18 will be entitled to it, and pupils will have a higher child allowance than primary schoolchildren. There is also a single income grade scale designed according to the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. The second important benefit is a state scholarship, pardon, state pension and a security allowance. State pensions and benefits and benefits under the law governing the social protection of mentally and physically affected persons are now transferred from the pension system. The State grant, however, is the third or fourth major monetary transfer. The beneficiaries will be students and students, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, after 18 years of age. The main part of the scholarship and the income according to the scholarship family are pooled essentially in the part of the scholarship which is increasing, so that it will amount to a maximum of €190, up to €70, depending on the income class plus the allowances added to the grant. The eligibility threshold is reduced to 64% of the average wage per family member from the current 64% of the minimum wage, which is around €591. In summary, I would point out that voting for this law means voting for more and higher state scholarships, for higher social assistance to those who do not have other resources to survive, for a more fair distribution of social benefits, and for more active work with beneficiaries of such aid, and for more friendly and effective access to social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 20th meeting on 30 June. 6. 2010 and at the first resumed meeting of 1. Seven. 2010 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a law on the enforcement of rights from public funds submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives and representatives of law-makers and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as a number of representatives of interested organisations and associations, attended the meetings of the Committee. The National Assembly shall consider the proposal for a law at its 24th session. 5. 2010 held a general debate and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a number of amendments have been tabled by qualified applicants. The Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, amendments to the SLS Group of Members by 8 and 59, and the Committee also adopted its amendments. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the main part of the comments was taken into account by the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, opinion of the municipalities, opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, opinion of the Association of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, association of pensioners and comments, and suggestions from the interested public, which in principle agree with the introduction of the so-called single entry point, but also point to some incomplete and excessive interference with the social security of citizens. In the introduction to the law, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law and in particular its main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups took greater account of the comments made by their services. At the same time, she drew attention to two key concerns that remained, namely the relation to the proposal of the Social Security Benefits Act, which is also under consideration. The point, which she considers to be of a key nature, is a comment on Article 4 of the draft law which commands the simultaneous application of other laws, if and when it contains other conditions for the acquisition of a particular right. This provision, according to the SPS, could be constitutionally disputed because the rule of law requires legal regulation to be so clear and transparent as to enable a rightful ignorant user to understand his legal position on the basis of law. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee and the most requested discussions focused on the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to the prevention, capture and verification of data, the verification of property and income, the working conditions of social work centres, the minimum income limit and the establishment of the minimum income of the family, the issue of fictitious property, the problem of single-parent families and the non-legislative community. A longer discussion was also held on Article 10, which identifies who, apart from the investor, is taken into account in determining the material situation. The representative of the ZPS reiterated some written comments on Article 10, the presumption of the non-legislative community. Representatives of the proposer and some of the advocates of such a solution stressed that in practice there are many abuses and that provision is intended to prevent the display of a false situation as to whether it is a family where only one of the parents actually cares for the child. The representatives of the ZPS considered that the alleged legal effect was not supposed to be a legal fictitious act. It is necessary to prove a negative fact, and in this way proof is extremely difficult, even impossible in certain cases. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the texts of the amended law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which includes amendments, have been prepared pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 24th extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We therefore turn to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 9. Seven. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have indeed tabled an amendment to Article 12 in the Slovenian Democratic Party to delete the third paragraph. The fact is, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are afraid of the day of the entry into force of this law. At this point, we are convinced that we still do not know exactly what the implementation of this law will look like or will be carried out in practice. Look, today we're going to be discussing two laws that put social rights at the crossroads. That's a fact. And the solutions set out in this Act provide that approximately 1/3 of the recipients of social assistance will be deleted from these recipients' lists. This is a large number of people who are exercising all these rights right now. We are confident that the exercise of rights will be hampered, we are talking about social rights. The procedures will be much more complex, there will be more verification, there will be a lot of justification that these people who need this help will also be entitled to it. I have already warned on the committee, and also in the first reading, which we had here in the National Assembly, about the increased administration at social work centres. The Committee made it clear that social work centres would be difficult to manage this extensive administrative work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that social work centres are primarily dedicated to tasks dealing with content itself, i.e. by helping those people who are in need of such and other assistance. The fact is, social work centres are constantly warning that they will not be able to do this work in the form envisaged. That's why I said in the introduction that I'm afraid of the day of this law. It is true that we have already prolonged the entry into force of this law, but it is still, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we have this opinion, full of some strangers, we do not know how they will be reflected in practice. See, if we are already talking about the social state which Slovenia is and should remain in the future, we need to know or our opinion is that the social state must be primarily fair to those who are entitled to this social assistance. By adopting this law, we make it difficult to exercise social rights. In our view, it would be right to allow easier access and thus to improve the social situation of all those who need it. The amendment of the law is based on the assumption that approximately 30% of the abuse of these social transfers should be. We don't believe these numbers. We believe this is happening, but those who need it should play a significant role. Imagine a man, a Slovenian who lost his job to go to a social work center for social assistance. I think he's already giving this first step a very difficult one and it's hard to do. The Slovenian is a proud man at heart, so we would expect to allow easier access by amending this legislation, but not by tightening the conditions. Imagine a man who will come to a social work centre and have to fill out a full set of records. Given that more than 40 different records will be pooled here, which will in fact form the basis for the granting of social assistance, such or other, whatever, this will pose a major problem. Once again, the biggest problem with the implementation of this law will be that the centres for social work of this work, at least after the representatives of the centres for social work, will not be able to do so. And that's the key and the main problem. Now, as I have already said, there will be significantly more verifications, and there will be substantial more justifications. Speaking of abuse itself, we are aware that they are, but abuses must not be the basis for the preparation of the law itself. This is a very sensitive area, it is a sensitive area of social transfers, it is those people who really have the least, and it would be good to open up the scissors so that they can get all these rights and resources that these people need as easily as possible. So once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are only afraid of the day of the entry into force of this law, when there will be a lot of negative roles when people are disappointed to leave the social work centres, disappointed at the decisions that will prove to have too much housing to get a social transfer. And this will be a key problem, the most comments will be made. Despite the prolonged beginning of this law, we believe that this law will bring more problems than good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Hello again! If we start at the very beginning, the key objective of the law is to create a more just and longer-term sustainability of the social state. This is the starting point of the law, and this is also confirmed by the articles themselves, which are intended to lead to this. Those of us who have deepened into this law clearly see that we do. The Ministry also provided certain calculations where it was clear that, in fact, those living in the worst socio-economic situation will be better. What raises these great doubts is the question of what happens when beneficiaries of a system that does not link eligibility to monetary social assistance and other benefits do not allow them to look into the actual situation or that individuals may be beyond a certain level, and then also to dismay and arouse the attention of those who live in their immediate vicinity, if we, in our work, cannot guarantee a certain socio-economic situation, you, I will say, in our immediate vicinity, have this option. This system of connectivity will be built on an electronic system, which we live in the 21st century, which enables us to do so. And just because there are no complications, the Ministry has taken another half-year of time to bring about full harmonisation, this means that this system will allow the pooling of these databases, while also reducing administrative procedures. [[..]] That makes sense if there's anything you can do in a uniform way with pooling bases! What happened to the user today? This user flew from one grantor or subsidy to another and again carried the papers and proved his socio-economic position with them. This decreases, so this system will be more user-friendly. The other thing is what it brings. This system undoubtedly brings about a fundamental change in our social assistance system. However, I warn you, this is not the first time that this has happened in Slovenia. In Slovenia we had this established in the 1980s, and the system before which everyone was afraid, before it was established, proved to be very good, very successful, but as we like to do, without evaluation and so on we abandoned it. And now, in the same philosophy, we're actually re-establishing it. That this system has also been considered by our current opposition Members, he tells us that a law has been drawn up in 2007 which he thought in a similar way. And of course at this time, it is said three years, it was this way that was well thought out, because you too set it up, complemented it, and certain dilemmas and concerns were resolved. Any system that is in place cannot fully anticipate all unknowns that occur. But I'm sure they're accounted for as much as possible in the system. However, if they are not fully abolished, the law can still be fixed in some way. Why is it that one third of the recipients are being deleted? You keep expressing your concerns that eligible beneficiaries of aid or subsidies will be eliminated. I have already said several times that I conducted a qualified study myself with a combination of five research methods across Slovenia. This research has shown that abuse is actually taking place. To the greatest extent, abuse occurs in the misrepresentation of the status of a single parent’s family. That's not the data I invented, that's the data I learned from the research. And if we are to be righteous, then we must stop these abuses. On the other hand, what I am constantly reminding the Ministry is that there are about one fifth of people who, under current laws, would be entitled to social assistance, and because of the disfavor of the system, because of the poor organisation of the system, because of the lack of links between the network of those involved in the aid system and the lack of assistance from those users. And this is most often the case with those people who are probably due to age, functional illiteracy, because of pride. The one you're talking about doesn't come to the system. Therefore, in the second phase, especially in the preparation of the Social Protection Act, we will have to consider what we will do to ensure that the system of justice is ensured in such a way that it is also for beneficiaries who belong to it and cannot receive it today. As I have already said, the data show that those beneficiaries in the worst socio-economic situation will receive more from the new system. They'll get more. And there's something else that seems very important to me. This model, which is established, provides for the principle of activation. See, with this same study, I have found that 80 % of those who are recipients of cash aid remain unemployed for one year or more, that is to say five years and even more, and is not included in society. The reasons for this are different. Many times it is also their poor psychophysical condition, disease, and so on. However, what we must strive to do is to enable as many people as possible to activate. Therefore, the principle of activation envisaged by this legislation is very good, as it assigns a basic level of social assistance, and it acknowledges that it does not take into account the income achieved by a person through his own activation and what we have achieved with additional amendments and which I think is particularly important – also taking into account if a person is involved in psychosocial assistance programmes. The worst part is that a person is permanently socially excluded. It is said that we must do everything we can to bring the possibility of activation closer to it, but, of course, by opening new options, I am predicting a law on social entrepreneurship, which should also open up employment opportunities for those who are more difficult to compete in the labour market to join society. Those of you who have worked with these people, I have had the opportunity to cooperate with them and work with them, I can say that this also has a major impact on the erosion of their personality structure, so I think it is very important that we include them. The idea of social work centres. The Ministry has repeatedly said that to some extent it will expand the number of employees and strengthen their activities by including those workers who have carried out similar activities, especially in the municipalities and in other services. This move is foreseen and reinforcement of the centres is envisaged. I understand, however, that the centres have expressed their concerns because in the past they have been given a large number of tasks, and thus their human resources capacity has not been strengthened. On the one hand, simplification of procedures due to the information system and, on the other hand, reinforcements with new staff are expected to lead to easier performance. It is also important to me that we trust the centres for social work, but I belong to that group of people who trust them that they will do their work not only as an administrative business, but also as a form of advice. There is also a linkage with employment agencies and so on, where solutions are to be actively sought to overcome the situation in which people are located. And if I say more about the older population, it is envisaged that the older population will not be able to activate them because of their age and their ability to work, so they assume a higher level of social security and a greater level of aid. I am convinced that this law is a step in the right direction. However, if certain errors, certain imperfections, indiscretions occur, we still have an opportunity to correct them. But, as I say, you yourself have found that the step towards building such a system is correct, and we confirm this with a law that in three years has come up with how best to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest in the debate, please apply. At the same time, I inform you that after this round of debates and debaters will also be announced by Mr Minister. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I have put a lot of effort on the committee itself, as well as in the debates on the acceptance or rejection of amendments, when we have also said a lot to each other. In opening, I must say that in the Group of Members we agree that structural changes in this area are necessary and necessary. That it is always necessary to make every effort to ensure that the social system is fair, that efforts must be made, which is not only in the public domain for many years now, but also in this Chamber, that some kind of uniform record must be established. I agree with this, and I have also acted on the committee in the debate and in the vote in this respect. We have tabled quite a few amendments, which unfortunately were not adopted, particularly in the area of state pension, which has already been mentioned several times today by the Minister. However, with regard to the state pension, we cannot agree. It's not just about rights, it's about a limited number of people who didn't have a chance in the past to come in any other way, I'd say, normal ways to a retirement pension. Certainly, the number of these people is rapidly decreasing, and in the future they will certainly not be much smaller and new ones will be coming, but they will now suddenly be suppressed into some social supplement which they will have to enforce by means of proof, as provided for by law, but will certainly pose a serious problem, such as, as we say, a suitable home for the family; especially in the countryside, this will be a major problem, according to my assessment. It is not a problem, for example, to sell apartments and dwellings somewhere in Ljubljana or its surroundings or on the coast, in some of the higher areas of our rural area, even where I come from, but this problem is significantly greater and many will be wronged by this minimum income, which is earned monthly. We are now considering the amendment to Article 12. Here, too, we have proposed the abolition of the 20th and 21st points at the Committee's hearing, where the contributions of humanitarian organisations and the contributions of charities are concerned. Here we considered that it would be good to exclude these contributions from the benefits, as we have already done in another law on our proposal, but unfortunately this has not been accepted on the Committee, but we also said that it makes no sense, given that the Government or the coalition has decided to settle the matter in such a way that it does not take into account, nor have we tabled the amendments again, so allow me to speak about these matters here in these few minutes that I have at my disposal. For the last time, and I also think that previous debaters have mentioned the recruitment of social work centres. I am pleased that our amendment was somehow included in the amendment of the coalition or also on the initiative of the Ministry to move the deadline for the application of this law to, I think, on 1 June next year, in order to be possible mainly in the institutions of the country with individual data and with an appropriate link with the centres for social work, so that this data can be used at all. But I'm sure there will be a big problem with the social work centres' staff force, or there is going to be a transfer of people from the municipalities, which sounds nice, but I'm afraid that this is going to be a problem for a crowd of small municipalities, which is probably going to be a little bit less of a problem in large municipalities where there are individual offices, which are also very well-staffed, and probably individuals are dealing with these problems only now, which some will go to social work centres. There it will certainly be easier, in smaller congregations, where individuals deal with many things and perhaps in just a few percent deal with the processing of these data and with the giving of opinions, and it will certainly be harder there. That's one problem. Another problem is the availability of data. But as it is said, it is good that the deadline for the application or application of this law has been moved, so that, even today, social work centres will obtain, in normal electronic form, all the information that is available to each country of the institution, which is also officially available to them. We have already discussed this problem quite a bit on the committee, and we have found that it is also necessary to change the housing law. I think there has already been some kind of initiative to make a difference in the area of housing law, particularly in this work, which is important for the realisation of this law. As far as our biggest problem is concerned, this is certainly the abolition of the state pension, the abolition of some of the rights acquired, which will now essentially fall away. Given that the Minister will say that this social benefit will be even higher than this state pension, yes, but it could be, in addition to the state pension, if necessary, also depending on the status, on the position of the individual, including this social allowance. Therefore, we regret that this will happen, because we believe that this state pension is one of the extremely positive things that has happened for this segment of the population, I think if I have the right information, about 17,000 recipients. I've told you who they are before. This change took place about ten years ago, and at that time, the National Assembly, where I worked together, with a large majority of this provision or accepted this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. We generally agree that things need to be arranged differently. As has been found, this has already been the case with our government. Since the system is impenetrable, complex, and always limping on the same matters, we control very poorly — where money goes and how money goes — so we agree that a change of law or law is needed if we are not concerned. The Ministry only emphasises, and everyone else, that in order for the system to be successful and to function, it is necessary to establish a central record or an information system that will also give support to this new way: to pool 20 different records and so on. In the balance sheet of the budget, the Ministry reduced funds on the e-social line. Therefore, we are concerned that we will get into a situation such as the student diet, when we have also extended the date of implementation of the law, but still today the system does not work – it works experimentally in Primorskie, not throughout Slovenia as it should. That it won't happen to us like this here. Although I know that student diet is a matter of student organisation, the ministry is the one that controls it. And if it's not on one system, I'm going to say, establish order or enforce it, we can be afraid that it's going to be even harder here because it's more recipients, more complex things than it is in that part. And if we enforce the law in half a year, we would expect the system to work at least now on an experimental basis, to see whether the matter works or not, and not then to deal with it when there is a collapse and there will be a whole lot of things wrong, and to correct the mistakes quickly, to choose then what kind of companies that will suddenly manage things like no one else in this country and so on. That's why we're worried about these things, and we're warning them about them. Social work centres have warned that there will be quite a few problems and that if they want to implement the system, they need 300 new employees. While the Ministry says 27 workers will be transferred from the municipalities. When congregations were being established and new congregations were being set up, we took no one anywhere, but we hired many new ones, and we feel that it is likely that the same thing will happen in this case. We will impose so many new obligations on the centres, then it will happen that the centres will not be able to do so and the matter will have to be resolved quickly, meaning with new people, who will then be reintroduced for two months, and the question of what will happen to social transfers in the meantime. We would like to see if we are going into such a big change, and this is a big change, and we support it, in general, it seems to us that the entry point is in one place and are probably the most suitable centres for social work, but we cannot put them before the fact that they are done. The system should enter into force on the day that everyone is trained, the records must be regulated, the information system must work, but not that things do not work as they should. My colleague said that those who now receive social benefits will receive more. We have heard on the committee a different calculation, I think by Mr Strehovac, that is not the case, so it would probably be a matter for a really thorough look and it could also be set up, as I said, an experimental system where the recipients can get their own data, whether they will be justified or not, precisely because of all these points that will be taken into account, who is justified and who is not entitled. Now there are many new facts that will be taken into account and the recipients – no one knows whether they will still be justified or not, as a colleague has already said because of, I don't know, the size of the apartment or the like. We know that the records are, but the processing of this, the analysis and the linkage of these are probably not that simple, even if we delay the implementation of the law for six months. That's how I support our amendment. I hope things are really so far-fetched and that my fears here are superfluous.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u40	Nice greeting to all in attendance! In the debate on the amendment to Article 12, the fear was expressed that matters would not be carried out in the way they were intended, but that is an extremely technical and professional question. We're counting on them to be. Of course, fear is also present and a certain discomfort in itself, as I have already heard from experts at social work centres – and I have also heard it in contact with them – and a positive expectation that changes will also bring a significant difference in work for them, in order to make it easier to justify their professional decisions, which have so far been subject to criticism that the granting of assistance is untransparent, irrational and even unfair. The law therefore brings some of the key issues that we have been talking about for years now and in fact, this is a single entry point and the principle that all incomes are counted. Only specific purposes and matters relating to the coverage of specific needs are excluded. Otherwise, it is the right starting point for everything to be considered and for the individual’s income to be taken into account. There have also been, as we know, misuses, misrepresentations, and in this direction, efforts have also been made to make these records more complete and to make it easier for professional workers to work, not to prove for themselves the existence of a particular community, there will also be a certain activity on the part of users. He is also afraid that he will bring more or less marriage to an individual. In full, I think, in the long run, it will bring more and, above all, this aid will be more justly allocated, despite everything. I can't get past the scholarships, the state scholarships, their fund will increase significantly, and there will be more recipients. The argument of student organisations which rejects the restriction of student work loses its argument in these measures. At the same time, it must be said that as many as 7,000 scholarships have not been used in the past period, that is to say, the situation of students and students will improve; it is correct that we have approached this before the student work is actually limited. This approach is correct and I hope that in other areas we will also get more rational and fairer allocations of social support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The key purpose of this law is to be clearly pointed out in the beginning. This is not a reduction of rights from social transfers, but the key purpose of this law is to more effectively and fairly distribute the allocation of social assistance. This needs to be said clearly and loudly in the introduction to the debate on this law, because it is impossible to ignore what people tell us when we talk to them that power in this area is also seen as an injustice; and not just one, because people who bring their children into kindergarten can see that the contribution to kindergartens can be different from those who live better than those who live worse, but who know, in the context of how we handle this area today, that they have a lower dose of it. Today, we know that many social rights are defined in different laws because we do not have a uniform definition of the circle of persons involved in contributing to a better social status of an investor for a particular social right under law. Today we know that we do not have a uniform approach to how to define income, because the different social rights defined in different laws define in a different way the income counted for the calculation of social rights. Today we know that we do not have a uniform definition of property under different laws. Therefore, in order to exercise a certain right in the calculation, it refers to different assets, and in this way an unjustified specific social transfer may also occur, or to someone who is eligible, this social transfer may not be granted. And to avoid all these anomalies that we can meet today, the approach of this law is to deal with a single entry point where all data are collected in one place and decide on rights in one place – as an exercise of rights from public funds. And this approach seems to me to be true. However, certain records are definitely necessary for this to be regulated. And here the ministry, the professional services and social work centres, and of course all those who will have to ensure this use of different records, are facing a difficult task. And through the debate, already before and on the committee, the Ministry has provided, and also in relation to these comments and warnings, only implementation of the implementation of this law has been suspended. There are also warnings about the staffing of the Centre for Social Work. There is a great responsibility on the local community, the ministry and social work centres to find quick and satisfactory responses to the fact that the transfer of these staff from local communities to the social work centre will be so successful that these tasks can be achieved. When we are talking today about supporting this law, we need to ask ourselves whether we still want an untransparent system or whether we want to regulate it in a transparent way. And the answer, at least for me, is clear – we want to arrange social transfers in a transparent way. Let us add to this a very important fact, which needs to be added here, that this law newly sets a minimum level of social security and sets its height at a level that ensures a decent life. This is what we are forgetting today, and within this ministry, a calculation of the minimum cost of living has been made within this government and the threshold for granting social assistance is placed at this level, which is higher, which is a key and very important element for ensuring the social security and decent life of individuals. Of course, knowledge and the objective of this law are very important to prevent any accumulation of social transfers due to the intransigence of the system. This means that the social rights would be justified by someone who would not be entitled to this by means of a transparent system, or that someone who could be entitled to some right would not be entitled to this right. In doing so, it should be noted and pointed out that this Act of Social Rights, or the exercise of rights from public funds, enforces them in a uniform way by collecting them in the register and does not distribute them across different cash registers. This is also very important for the pension fund, where all the financial payments made by individuals who have the nature of social transfer are transferred from pension funds, i.e. from addresses not linked to paid contributions in the active age, to the budget framework for the provision of social rights. It is also clear and clear here that the number of scholarships is increasing significantly and that the volume of funding is increasing significantly, and thus the difference is a good EUR 60 million, which will be allocated to grant scholarships. But when we talk about the amendment, because the debate on the amendment currently under way here is significantly broader than the contents of the amendment itself to Article 12, I would like to say only that it cannot be supported. It cannot be supported for a simple reason, because we have discussed Article 12 on the Committee and we have amended the text of this Article with the amendment adopted by the coalition groups, in this particular point referred to in this amendment, so that the response to your warning, which is in place, but that the content of this amendment, after it has been adopted, responds consistently to your concerns. Thus, the content of the amendment cannot be substantiated, but it should be pointed out that we have corrected this content on the Committee in such a way that your consideration is adequately resolved. If I finish. This is a law which is fundamentally different in the concept of social security in the Republic of Slovenia, which stems from taking care of an individual in order to guarantee him a decent life. It is a fair regulation of the social state, which should also be sustainable in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u44	Nicely greeted! It is only with great sensitivity that it is possible to amend legislation relating to social issues, and we are very aware of that. The anomaly is huge in this society, some of which have already been listed today. At the local level, we meet them. For example, a single elderly person lives in a hundred square feet [100 sq m] large apartment, cannot pay the costs and is socially endangered. Despite the efforts of the Centre for Social Work, the Housing Fund and so on to replace, a smaller apartment cannot be agreed on. There are still many such matters, and I think that this law will lead to an equalization of the conditions for those who need social assistance, so that this matter will finally be transparent and that there will be far fewer issues in the environment, including intolerance to fellow citizens at some levels. These were kindergartens and so on, where people know exactly who pays and who has a standard so that I don't list everything. I don't think that this law will solve all of this, too, and that some anomalies and some problems will still remain, but efforts are and I think the path is the right way. As we enforce this law, we must be careful that social work centres do not become more bureaucratic than they are today, so some changes in staff, transfer of personnel, education and so on will be needed. It takes some effort, but I don't think there's any reason we shouldn't approach it. I think that this is our task together to ensure that citizens and citizens have a decent life, including those who need social assistance to receive this social assistance from one place and that this threshold of social assistance is not cemented, but is adapted to economic situations and results further. I am convinced that the amendment to Article 12 cannot be accepted for one part of this amendment to be calculated in certain other articles of this Act and that this law will only help to regulate these situations, at least 90%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Well, since the amendment to Article 12 proved to be a practical starting point for a repeat of the general debate and a debate on the Committee. What could be heard is, of course, understandable: we are for change, but let nothing change. This way I can sum up the debate of two opposition Members. I am aware that it is extremely hard and responsible work before the centres for social work, but ten months before the introduction and implementation of a single entry point is the time which should, with the electronic competence and equipment of the public administration, be able to ensure that what is the aim of this law can be done. This is to introduce a single methodology whereby a single register is made of all benefits that individuals must take into account or that must be taken into account in the allocation of monetary benefits and subsidies and payments, in order to avoid what has been constantly said in the previous term, whatever we have adopted, any law "should be prevented from being misused". I will not support the amendment to Article 12, which would delete paragraph three. Why is that? Let's say what section 12 of the law is talking about. This is part of a chapter that speaks of those things which define how the material position of the beneficiary is determined. Article 12 speaks of which income is to be taken into account. And the income shall be accounted for by 23 different defined incomes, which shall also be referred to in this Article or this amendment, which wishes to delete this paragraph. It is simply that the competent Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance will define more precisely how these 23 items can be defined, which can be discussed as taking into account the valuable income of the family. This is because the incomes of the entire family or all household members reflect on monetary benefits or on subsidies and payments. The second paragraph then, of course, discusses what is also being taken into account. The deletion of this paragraph, once again, would in fact mean that we give up the precise determination of what is being taken into account and how it is taken into account. So I see the amendment only as an opportunity to talk about things and to scare people to a good degree, which is unacceptable for social transfers to be reduced by 1/3. That was also possible to hear in the debate, and that is not true. It's just that the benefits and subsidies will be found by the people who do. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. First, I will give my word to Minister Ivan Svetlik and then the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make some clarifications regarding the comments that have been made. First, about the amendment alone. So the amendment itself pointed to some inadequacy that we then corrected during the debate on the committee. It is not about looking for some new definition of individual types of income, as it has been written down, but about data on these incomes. So we land, we take the same income bases, the same from the bases that already exist. This article allows us to create, on this very basis, a suitable basis for the information system to be able, as necessary, to be designed and to operate. In short, the deletion is out of the question, but it is an appropriate definition already contained in Article 12 correction. So from this point of view of this amendment, we cannot support it on our part. In view of the allegations that I think they are going too far for half the beneficiaries to be deleted, I think that is not true, even though we have communicated both to the public and to the Members in the drafting of the law and in its justification. Let me give you just a few examples. We estimate that the recipients of financial social assistance will be about 25,000 more than they are today, on the basis of this law, that the recipients of the state grant will be about 20,000 more than today, that the recipients of the protection allowance will be about the same as today, but their structure will change, and so on. Even if you look at the size, size of the budget for this year, for 2010, for all of these transfers, compared to what we are planning for 2011, you will find that there is much more funding planned, around 120 million more resources, so that these transfers can be secured under new laws. We hope, of course, that there will be no substantial downturns in the preparation of the 2011 budget. All of this shows that it is not a reduction in the number of recipients and not a reduction in the volume of funds for these purposes, but vice versa, to increase them and also to increase more resources. It is true, however, that an individual will not appear twice or three times as a party at the social work centre: once, for example, as one who seeks a child's allowance and also for a state scholarship and so on, because the system will regulate and simplify these matters. The argument that these laws will lead to more administration, that people will be exposed to greater requirements for proof, then that they will have to provide certain data, is, I think, completely incorrect, because one of the fundamental objectives of this law is to establish, as we have said, a single entry point where one role and then one decision decides on the beneficiaries of all transfers to which an individual is entitled. Thus, he will not have to go to different institutions, to different places, not to put up any more applications, but to do so with one role in one place. This will be taken care of by an appropriate information system called E-social. We are preparing it in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. Both the Minister and I are leading the project board, which is carrying out this very important development task, and we believe that, in view of the course of events, everything will also be ready in good time to connect, according to the current record, around 48 databases, so that they will then be accessible online to advisers at social work centres. This is also what ensures less administration, faster decision-making, faster insight into the overall socio-economic situation of an individual and also faster and better quality and a more equitable assessment of his position, as well as a fairer allocation of what belongs to him. Following the implementation plan we have, this system is expected to start operating at the end of February, early in March next year. The trial period is set for a period of three months, so that all possible shortcomings and difficulties can be addressed at that time. Let me say that this is not a system that is completely out of the blue, because the current so-called information system of social work centres connects all those bases that relate to benefits to transfers that the centres are already assigning to individuals, and includes six external databases, so that experience in this area is already very rich, so that we do not doubt the expertise of the experts who are helping us in this. As regards the issue of social work centres, their willingness or unwillingness, let me say that a very difficult period will be just at the time of the introduction of this new system, we are all aware of this, so we have also drawn up a specific implementation plan containing both human resources and organisational activities that are needed to do so, a new logistics of work within these centres will need to be trained by all advisers, and all of this will be done in the course of this year. We are also aware that the centres will need to be strengthened, because of these changes in the law itself, much less work will be done or there will be no more work on these transfers in the current municipalities. About 300 people in the municipalities today deal with these transfers, not all of them for full-time work, our estimate is that there are up to 200 people working full-time with these transfers. We will talk to individual municipalities, find out how much free human resources they have at the expense of amending this law, and I believe that the municipality will not be interested in funding someone for whom they do not have any work, because our common goal is to make public administration more effective in the wider sense. Well, let me also mention the programme that we will activate this fall, says the programme for the inclusion of an additional 100 faculty students for social work, which will significantly strengthen these centres, so that they can be staffed when these activities need to be carried out. We are talking about another possibility, namely that for this transitional period, when work will be the most, a few additional people, adequately qualified, would be activated through a programme of public works. The question that often opens up in this debate is that the centre for social work is a kind of institution that individuals don't like to visit, that somehow stigmatises them. I must say that employment agencies or employment agencies and social work centres have long been no longer such an institution. Even today, government scholarships are granted to people through social work centres and it is perfectly normal for them to visit this institution when they need them. By transferring all transfers to social work centres through a single entry point, this stigmatising effect, as far as it is concerned, will completely fall away. I would like to take another look at what I and Mr President have already discussed with the Member of Parliament when it comes to the issue of state pensions. So, this amendment is in this law, parallel with the amendment or preparation of amendments to pension legislation, where one basic principle is that all payments, all transfers from pension registers that do not have the basis for the corresponding payments, the corresponding contributions, are transferred to the social security system. Thus, for this principled reason, this change has also been made. I understand or we understand that state pensions have been and are some kind of achievement from the past, I can even say in the direction of a citizen's income for each individual in this country. Unfortunately, this idea, this concept has not been broken down so far, and we are also assessing in the current situation that there is probably little chance that we can implement it in a short time, so we need to build other systems that will be financially sustainable and, of course, fair at the same time. What is important about this is that, indeed, those recipients of the state pension, Mr President himself stressed, those recipients of the state pension who really need this aid, which are largely dependent on it, do not have other resources to make such assistance significantly greater for them: from about €180 today to €450 in the future, if they do not have other resources. Like, of course, checking the possibility of covering the cost of living from other sources also applies to other citizens of Slovenia. Of course, there is a dilemma here, whether in just one case we can go after an individual without taking into account his situation throughout the household. This can be done when contributions were paid on his part, such as personal contributions to the pension. In this case, unfortunately, we do not find that people have not paid for this state pension and therefore we cannot apply this principle equally to them, so we must also take into account the property situation of the partner or the household in which that person lives. This also means that some of these state pensions will no longer be received in the future, given that their partner is a recipient of high, for example, pensions or that he has property that is significantly above the level that this law defines. Surely one of the main issues is the role of real estate. I must immediately say that taking into account real estate already exists in individual social transfers, so that this is not a completely new matter, but it is true that we want to take into account real estate as a potential source of income consistently in all social transfers, because this is what also leads to the fact that the system will be fair that we do not have some people who do not take this into account when they receive it, and in other cases this would be taken into account. For this reason, it seems to me that it is important, in principle, that we use this source of income consistently. Once again, it must be said that it is not the entire value of real estate, but it is the value or potential income that this property can give. This one is fundamentally different: perhaps in the main city of the country, or in large cities, or somewhere in the countryside. The assessment of potential income is also significantly different. Of course, it also varies according to age of real estate, size, etc. This, of course, will be taken into account from this point of view. I would also like to point out that if we are talking about a just social system and social justice, and we have taken this into account in the solutions to this law, that the social work centres will take into account the situation of an individual who determines that he has property, especially when it comes to older persons who often cannot obtain it alone, because of different circumstances, even because of the location, they cannot get it into active form. This possibility is that they continue to receive all the benefits, but of course they allow a mark on this property, which already exists today. In fact, someone who has gone to a nursing home does not have another source, or someone else does not cover these costs, and this property is also burdened with the proper marking. This case is not entirely new. However, it is important that this solution will also contribute, let us hope, to a more lively transport and real estate economy, and, last but not least, it will be able to provide some more social housing to the municipalities on a long-term basis because we find that they are constantly lacking. Perhaps the question of what this legislation means to an individual. Of course, there is a big change and individuals will have at the outset some questions about what all of this can mean for them, the possibility of an informational calculation that an individual can also get, and the establishment of an e-social information system will allow for the establishment of this e-business between centres and individuals in the future. That is the potential that this solution offers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 12? Report. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is true what the Minister said that we went a little wider in the debate than the amendment itself, but the honourable Minister, I would just like to warn you that you are very confident of your right, which I respect, you are very confident that this law will live as you have now explained. But I promise you that when this law comes into force, I will remind you of your conviction that it is exactly as it was written in the law, that such a reality will be on the ground itself. The fact is, there are major and fundamental changes. I'm sure we all agree, but I feel like we're listening, but we don't. We have never said that the intention of marriage is not good, it certainly is, not least that it has already been prepared, at least the drafts prepared in the previous term, because it is actually necessary to implement this in such a way, at least as is now envisaged. But what are we actually talking about today? We are talking about the fact that the profession, the centres for social work, are pointing out the inadequacies of this law. We have all witnessed, or have been, members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, that the debate itself took place for a very long time. Many experts were involved, including representatives of social work centres, who pointed out exactly the things I'm talking about today. We are talking about a single record that we are not yet sure will truly be what they say it will be. More than 40 bases will need to be integrated into one point. If we just remember that overnight, due to the information system, there have been 7 000 more deleted due to a reform of the information system, it is simple for me to ask whether we will be able to establish all these records in one place this year, as is still available until this law comes into force, as the law provides. Look, a month ago, you were convinced that the law could enter into force with 1. 1. but now you have found that it might be good to extend for 6 months. We agree, but we are still talking about the warnings of the profession – these remarks did not grow on our herb. When we listened on the committee representatives for social work – what they said: "This is impossible. It's impossible! We're gonna be understaffed, we're gonna be hard to implement, we're gonna be officials, we're gonna be administrators. We will no longer do the work for which we have been educated." These were warnings on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. And what can I say? I believe in the profession. I have no reason not to believe you who have prepared this law, but nevertheless: one is a theory, and the other is a practice. And people who spoke on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons spoke on the basis of experience. And that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u51	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I thank the Minister for an extensive response to either my own or our subject, which has already been presented on the committee. But I still have a few things to say. Above all, I suppose there will be great problems with the state pension in remote areas, where small farms, where something will necessarily have to be done, are likely to be registered by the congregation, or by those who are expected, as in homes, as you have rightly found. But it's also about smaller craftsmen and so on. So, the problem will be in these remote areas where there is some official property, but this property certainly does not bring anything. Therefore, the situation of these people will suddenly change: from one permanent income, the income of an individual, for whom we received a great consensus ten years ago, it will now suddenly dry up and we will also have statistically more social problems as a result. Statistically, there will certainly be more social problems, even though I believe or so, in the bill, that the matter will be resolved in the way you expect, with social criteria. So it seems to me that we are going a step back, and in those people who have not really paid into the system in the past, in many cases they have not even had this option, but in these people we are going to go a step back on social security, and in the end, which is not entirely irrelevant, in the sense of social security or the neglect of individuals. I thought I had to stop by. However, I thank you for the answer you gave to my debate, both today and at the Committee's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u53	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate on the amendments. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 13. Seven. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — Second defence of the bill on social security benefits, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u54	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Once again, honourable Members and Members! The purpose of this law is primarily to reduce the risk of poverty by raising the basic amount of financial social assistance. Therefore, a new value is set for the basic amount of minimum income, or the gap between the amount of social transfers that are indexed on the basis of the overall increase in the cost of living or needs and the basic cost of living purchased by the people at the bottom of the income scale in order to meet their needs. The second objective is to allocate the budget more efficiently also according to the criterion of duration of social hazard, which is to introduce two levels, a minimum income to cover basic costs of living plus a security allowance. And the third objective is to promote the work of recipients of social assistance, those recipients who are, of course, capable of work. Our aim is to implement the principle of 'payable to work' or to encourage these recipients to do more work or to maintain and motivate them to work. The main solutions brought by this law would be highlighted as the following. First time. For recipients of temporary cash social assistance, which do not have income for a limited period, cash social assistance continues to be introduced, increasing from the current 226 to almost 289 euros or around 27%. However, for those recipients who receive financial social assistance for a longer period, an additional security allowance may be introduced which may be €450 per month for an individual who lives alone and does not have other resources. The equivalent scale for determining the minimum income for individual family members is also changed. Different for different. I would like to point out that in particular it raises the so-called "child tender" to 0.7 in the case of secondary school students to almost 0.9 and 0.89. Some other weightings are also changing, which will be newly identified after this situation of the entire family or household as a unit being observed when it comes to beneficiaries of financial social assistance. Under this law, the Interinstitutional Commission between the Centre for Social Work and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall be established with a view to resolving circumstances affecting the unemployment and social hardship of unemployed beneficiaries of financial social assistance, in order to assess the situation of the individual as quickly as possible and to assist him in this situation. New subsidies for employers are added when they employ recipients of monetary social assistance, and we also introduce a minimum income allowance for employment. Thus, individuals who themselves will be able to generate some income that will want to be activated will be encouraged to do so, and this basic aid will not be withdrawn or reduced. In addition, this law introduces a more flexible demonstration of the intentional use of exceptional financial assistance, as well as the easing of penalties for unintended consumption compared to the current situation. As already mentioned in the previous debate, this law marks the prohibition on the disposal and burden of assets for beneficiaries of a fixed-term or permanent security allowance, beneficiaries of permanent cash social assistance, as well as beneficiaries of long-term financial assistance, i.e. those who have received this aid at least 24 times over the last three years. I would also like to point out that there is an improvement in the legal provisions in force in the definition of monetary social assistance when it comes to single parental families, or by introducing the assumption of the existence of an extra-marital community. That is, when it comes to two persons who have not entered into a marriage, regardless of the duration of the marriage, if they are born or adopted by a common child, it is not a single parent’s family, and there is no reason why the marriage community would be invalid. We also want to reduce the potential abuses that we have been alerted to so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at the first meeting of the 20th session of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Seven. 2010 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a law on social security benefits submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the bill-maker, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service and a number of representatives of interested organisations and associations. On the basis of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was held. The National Assembly held that debate at its 24th extraordinary meeting on 26 May 2010 and adopted the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Social Security Benefits was appropriate for further consideration. In accordance with Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a number of amendments have been tabled by qualified applicants. The Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The legislative and legal service has also made specific comments to the draft law, a major part of these comments has been taken into account by the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, proposals for amendments to the Faculty of Social Work, the position of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the comments of the Social Chamber of Slovenia, and proposals for amendments to the Committee followed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted by the Committee. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law and in particular its main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups took greater account of the comments made by their services. At the same time, it drew attention to the proposed definition of the non-legislative community referred to in Article 9 of the bill. This differs from the definition contained in the applicable law on marriage and family relations in Article 12, paragraph 1, and is identical to the content of the definition contained in the proposal for a family code in Article 4, paragraph 1 and 2. Since the proposal of the Family Code has not yet been adopted, it is legal systemically disputed that the draft law under consideration provides for a different definition of the non-legislative community as contained in the law in force. It also explained that the purpose of preventing abuse was an acceptable objective, but not with the same criteria, and that proving the abuse of the existence of an extra-marital community would be extremely difficult, since the individual would have to prove for himself that he was not in an extra-marital community or that there were reasons why the extra-marital community would be invalid. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 8, 9, 42 and 49 of the draft law. The discussion focused on the basic amount of the minimum income, the monetary social assistance to which the single person is entitled, the obligation of the beneficiary of the financial social assistance to accept any employment and the beneficiaries of the protective allowance. A longer discussion was held on the issue of the basic amount of minimum income, where the representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia said that the union insisted on raising the basic amount of minimum income from 288,81 euros to 308,06 euros. The amount set out in Article 8 of the bill is considered insufficient and does not allow for decent survival. Some members and members of the Committee felt that people receiving this minimum income should be stimulated to activate themselves and will then receive a higher amount, as foreseen in the proposal for a law. It was explained by the Ministry representative that it was necessary to work to ensure that the person who was able to work would not be in a position for long when he needed financial social assistance. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law on the exercise of rights from public funds in which they have been incorporated is prepared [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 24th extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the position of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 9. Seven. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the amendment we tabled. At the same time, I would like to say a few other things, which I have already mentioned at the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we agree that there is a need to adopt new solutions here and that it is right that this law has come about because we ourselves find that the law that was adopted before this is very outdated. We also estimate that the economic situation in Slovenia is deteriorating, and the vulnerability of individual groups and families is increasing. The number of recipients of cash social assistance also increased significantly in 2009. Also due to the weakness of the system, and in particular to the inability to identify the full picture of the income and property of individuals and the lack of supervision, the possibility of misuse of these financial social assistance was high. Also, without financial social assistance, too many have been left to those who actually need it at the expense of those who can skillfully exploit the shortcomings of the system in their favour. The system is also administratively outdated and complicated. We are also convinced that certain rights that have the character of social transfers are regulated in one place and that this is the right decision. For example, the security allowance and state pensions, that the amounts of the minimum income are increasing as the current amount is no longer adequate to the actual situation and does not allow survival. Which seems problematic to us, but I'd like to point out that. The law, according to our assessment, does not regulate the social protection system in a comprehensive way. So that the social protection system is not fully regulated, and that part of the activity is also concerned, we ask ourselves whether the exclusive non-regulation of this area is only financial. It is estimated that additional administration is also unnecessary, that the system of granting monetary social assistance and a security allowance is irritated by the establishment of commissions, and not all the necessary human resources are provided on the other hand, especially here I am referring to the transfer of personnel from the PSIZ. The largest group of recipients of monetary social assistance is of the unemployed. The bill foresees that a special committee will be formed to decide on their rights, which will draw up an opinion. So, reintroduction of some commissions and additional administrations. Then I see a problem in information support. No appropriate information support is provided. The law provides that social work centres will obtain data from 25 different types of institutions, which are sometimes hidden by more institutions, such as different local community administrative units, credit institutions, for example, for the purpose of deciding the right. Nor are all the sub-laws that must be issued for the application of this law prepared, and here we see one big problem and we estimate that this law will be extremely difficult to implement in practice. The financial implications here are very vague and things are lacking. Then, income determination – the child's allowance is included in the income. One of the biggest problems of the current regime, of course, is the possible misuse of the family’s income, which will not be resolved by this law, due to inadequate consideration of the family’s income. Property, real estate, can only be taken into account after the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate has been enacted, and we do not have this law at this time. Arrangement of the protective additive. Once again, the proposal assumes that 15 000 300 fewer recipients of the protection allowance will be in force; now 46 000, then 1/3 less. According to the current system, beneficiaries of all kinds of pensions, old age, disability, family, widowhood are now entitled to the protection allowance, now those over 63 years of age are said to be women, and over 65 years of age men. Such a solution also prejudges the solutions from STIZ, the conditions for retirement. So he's already talking about what's supposed to happen in a time period, that some law would be passed from where what I'm talking about would be determined. Then we are also convinced that the implementation of this law, as I said earlier, will not achieve its purpose, because I am sure that the law will not be enforceable. Representatives of social work centres have also made it very clear on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled how they see this situation, and they themselves have said that this task will not come to fruition. Despite the fact that some workers are going to be employed by 30 employees, I think they're going to be employed from the STD to the social work centre. I think we have about 50 centres for social work, somehow this number is – the exact number is 62; so we have 62 centres for social work, and on the other hand 30 workers from the PIC will be employed to these centres. And what the representatives of the centres have said there, they are confident that this task will not be taken. These are all the dilemmas and problems that concern the Slovenian Democratic Party in adopting this law. I know that even if these amendments are adopted, they will not improve the law so that they can say that this law is quality enough to follow its intentions. Once again, I say that the law is going in the right direction, it has many good solutions, and the biggest problem we see is that we are confident that the law will not be feasible. Moreover, if you remember, Mr Minister, the Economic and Social Council has also said that you have not reconciled the matter with it. It also disturbs us that virtually all this legislation, which is now coming to Parliament, is not in line with the Economic and Social Council. Once again, we will also support the amendment we have tabled to Article 6. However, the reasons for this amendment are as follows: the fourth paragraph of Article 6 provides that the recipient or recipient of financial social assistance and a protective allowance may not be in a more favourable social position than that provided by work or on the basis of work rights. Since it follows from Article 6 that this Article governs only beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and provides for the beneficiaries of a protective allowance under Article 7, it makes sense that the text of the protective allowance referred to in Article 6, paragraph 4, is deleted and transferred to Article 7. We will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u59	Anybody else want to talk about Article 6? Mr. President. Here you go. I would ask you to limit yourself to the debate on the amendment to Article 6. I allowed a little too much discussion earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u60	I hope I'm not going to be a sample case to be interrupted, because a trifle would go away, but thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. So once again a warm greeting, a greeting to everyone! So, now it is difficult to limit itself to a debate on a certain little article, even for the reason that there was a clear position already at the committee meeting itself, which, as you know, took place late at night in the middle of the night, we did not, once again, stress, even put the amendments back into this law because there was no hope of any success. So I'll allow myself if you don't interrupt me, just a few sentences about other things. Above all, I would like to stress the following. Otherwise, the report says that I withdrew the amendment to Article 49, but I don't know if I really withdrew it because I forgot a little, but I didn't get a magnetogram. I have been explained that the matter is regulated by this law, so I would like to hear again from the Minister in what way. So, it's a protective allowance for those farmers who get a pension under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers. In this regard, six months ago or a year ago, we tabled a proposal to amend the law, which was rejected. This is a small number of farmers who are not entitled to a protective allowance. However, they were elderly farmers — just as I had discussed the family’s pension before — who are becoming fewer and fewer, their numbers no longer go back to the thousands but to the hundreds. However, they are owners or their successors have farms that generate extremely small incomes, making their incomes and pensions minimal. For this reason, we have proposed that, irrespective of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, the beneficiaries of the social security allowance are also farmers, pension beneficiaries under the Age Insurance Act. At that time, you answered me that this would be resolved in the context of this social programme, but I would point out that there would be a similar problem, as we mentioned earlier about rural properties, in this case it is even more pronounced where such real estates or small farms do not bring not only any income, but it is not possible to conduct any other proceedings, sales or anything. These are individual cases mainly in rural areas that are extremely difficult to solve. But they will certainly be difficult to save social work centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u61	Mr. Minister Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. If I start with the last question put by Mr President. We argued that the change you proposed was not necessary because we would treat farmers, farmers after insurance from agricultural activities in exactly the same way as all other pensioners. And it is in this case that a number of these people, older farmers on small farms who do not actually have any more resources to survive, will today be much better off than before. Of course, here we come back to that previous debate about how to proceed in a specific case. The individual has the opportunity to hand over his assets, which is encouraged by the agricultural sector, the Agricultural Activity Act, and even have specific programmes to grant a specific subsidy or special remuneration to the individual who hands over the farm to his or her successors. In this case he has no more property and if he has as little pension as he normally has, he will be entitled in any case to a security allowance, unless, of course, he has any other income. Thus, we feel that this group of pensioners will be able to do better. Of course, a person may not choose to surrender his property further in order to alienate him, in this case the marking or consideration, as previously explained, of this income, even when it comes to the eligibility of a protective allowance, as is taken into account for each recipient of a protective allowance. It is true, however, that if this income is small, this income will not continue to prevent this pension from increasing to a certain amount, depending on what the individual has in this form. Here, in principle, this issue is dealt with consistently in this way. So, whether an individual covers his or her living expenses alone, if he or she is unable to do so, can use his or her property, if the property cannot be used, it is still possible to record the property and, in the final instance, the consequences come with the protective and other benefits. The second question was how we regulate the whole social security area. Three laws are meant, two laws are now under consideration, the third law is coming, this is the Social Protection Act. The dilemma that has always been present here is whether in one complex law to resolve everything or to go gradually. Now that you point out that it will be difficult to enforce these laws to be gradual, this argument suggests that we should break this area down to as many reasonable, rounded wholes as possible, so that we can also effectively introduce these laws, if we came with only one law, problems in the sense that you are warning would be even greater, and the concern you are expressing would be even more justified. Of course, I must also say right away that our belief that we will be able to do this and that we will succeed is normal and must be expressed, because if we had doubts about these solutions, we would probably not have submitted them to the National Assembly. The issue of commissions which, in cooperation with the Centre for Social Work and the Employment Service, will address the issues of individuals receiving social assistance can also be open, but I must say that this is a modern practice when it is now an attempt for recipients of monetary compensation to prepare their employment plan and in line with this plan also imposes certain obligations on the individual, activities which must be carried out in order to get back to work as soon as possible. Well, a similar practice should be established between these two institutions, the Centre for Social Work and the Employment Institute, when it comes to recipients of financial social assistance, those who are able to work. And it's about trying to help people, so they can help themselves as soon as possible with their economic activity. With regard to the issue of sub-legislative rules, the Government would not confirm these laws if at least they were not prepared in the draft; some are already prepared in detail; others are in drafts and will certainly be ready in time, so that there is no doubt here. Involvement of a child's allowance in income, this is certainly a change, but this also increases the weight for a child in the family from 0.3, as I said, to 0.7, for individual statuses as well as more. For example, in high school students at 0.89, which means that we consider a high school student almost as much as a single person in such a household, such a family where social threats are involved. We consider him more like another adult, and this is precisely to make more money available to these young people in this case because they need them more for their development, so that they can adequately cover the costs of their education. We have studied this issue thoroughly for a long time, and we have also decided on such a solution. The Property Valuation Act, I think it has been around 4 years since it was adopted, but it is true that the real estate value database is now being established and we have ensured that this base will also be accessible to us from all aspects necessary, i.e. for interactive use, at the beginning of next year. Thus we are provided by the Ministry of Environment and Space and, of course, by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which establishes this base. In the Economic and Social Council, we presented both laws. However, as I have already stated, there was not much interest in our disappointment or surprise by the members of the Economic and Social Council to discuss these issues. However, they were both presented and if there were an interest in further discussion on these issues, which are being resolved by these two laws, they would certainly devote more time to the Economic and Social Council than to the two legal issues, but, as it is said, there was no such interest. To reopen the issue of the staff of social work centres, you have pointed out another source of personnel, not particularly large, PPIZ, but something human resources will also be released there. We also count on these and all those who come from the municipalities and from this special traineeship programme for university graduates for social work. Thus, by the time we prepare for the start of the implementation of the law, social work centres will be strengthened and people will also be trained to ensure that both laws can be properly implemented. It is true, and we do not deny that any systemic change is, and it will also be, accompanied by certain uncertainties, that an additional issue can be raised in the experimental age, but we are doing it in all areas in a similar way. I believe, however, that all the preparations we have made in relation to these two laws so far have been sufficiently thorough to have enough involved, we also have enough practice involved, as experts who have prepared these laws are involved in these groups, so that they point to any open issues. It is also normal that those professional workers who are elephants and will decide to implement these laws are the most concerned in their own way, because they will have to change their way of working, because training will be necessary before we can start working again and therefore also their additional engagement, but this is happening in all areas where changes are introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman, if you'll excuse me, you've already come forward. Otherwise, the application is pending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have warned before that we must limit ourselves to the amendment or to Article 6. This is very difficult, and I will try to really limit myself only to him, because Article 6 speaks only of who is the beneficiary of monetary social assistance. In addition, the law distributes everything that needs to be done in order to include a person over 65 years of age or a woman over 63 years of age, in any institution where payment is required, of course. But this is already what Mr President pointed out earlier when we spoke on the committee once about the potential for the sale of real estate and he has pointed out wickedly to my contribution that every property can be sold, but at the right price. And as a joke, he said, "Yes, but in Koper and Portorozh". It's a little joke, a little bit for real, but we'll talk about it later. I will not support the amendment to Article 6 because there is nothing wrong with this Article 6 which determines who is the recipient of monetary social assistance. However, it is very important that, by means of this law, and in my view from this article onward, we try to achieve order in this area, so that social assistance coming from several sources is concentrated in one source, that it is under control and that it is known how much financial resources the state, institutions and all those who care about it are allocated to a particular person. The security supplement, which is supposed to be general, universal and unique, in my opinion is truly orderly, because cooperation between social work centres and employment agencies saves many strangers who have been present in this area so far. It is also true that we must ensure that only those unable to care for their livelihood are covered by this law. I am so sure that the playing of this law will actually be impossible. And if, as the Minister has explained in the introduction to this document, I am sure that everything in it is what we need right now. Thus, we will no longer listen to statements that someone can also get 1,200 euros in various aids in this country and earn much more than someone who goes to work every day, works eight hours, tries to keep this job, and thus survives his family. I think this article is perfectly fine and sufficient because, as it is said, it merely predicts who he will be and how he will receive money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u65	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It should be said that the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is a repetition of the amendment tabled by the same parliamentary group at the Committee's meeting. It is, however, an amendment to an article that discusses who is entitled to financial social assistance. This is referred to in Article 6 and Article 7 speaks of who is entitled to a protective allowance. The article has only four paragraphs and is, in my opinion, very logical, because it first imposes on each individual the care to provide for the means of survival itself, then defines, in the second and third paragraphs, who is entitled to financial social assistance, and the fourth paragraph is actually the bridge from Article 6 to Article 7. And how do I see him? I see it simply so that the social state must provide every human being, even when it is not capable of doing so itself, with the basic means of survival. The security allowance is linked to the receipt of financial social assistance. And both together, cash social assistance and a security allowance, an individual receiving it or a beneficiary must not put in a better position than an employed person. So, that person, that man who lives off his work or his work rights. While this opens up a possible debate on whether this could be put into a different context and, for example, Article 6 without this paragraph, then Article 7 and together add these two rights and define this principle. But it seems to me that there is nothing wrong with this place, because here only the legislator's will is expressed that these two benefits cannot put the beneficiary in a better position than the one who survives with his work or rights from work. Research or findings show that many people who depend on social benefits are better off than they would have been offered employment for minimum income or even when some do not have guaranteed or minimum income, even though this is in conflict with the law. The drawing up of a protective supplement would not, in this case, bring any such dimension that would have any effect on height. It's just a principled definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mrs. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I have nothing to add to what my colleagues have said about the amendments, so I wouldn't waste my time. It was clear, however, that there was a desire to talk more about the law itself, so I should be allowed to say something about it. The fundamental purpose of this law is to regulate conditions for ensuring an adequate level of life security for those who cannot afford it. See, for many years, operators in the area have been reminded that the minimum level of social security is highly overestimated. They also ordered the research, read the results, and nothing happened. A new minister came in and essentially raised the minimum level of social security by 27% on the basis of this law, allowing people to actively seek a way out of their own situation and not to be taken into account for sin and deduct from what they acquire, but to be considered on the basis of that. And what the unions have pointed out is that the level that is defined is too low, given that at the minimum level, this is €288, we also add, I will say, the activation supplement, we get exactly the amount that they wanted to have. So that's what we're talking about? We are talking about the need, however, to ensure an adequate level of social security for everyone in this society, but to create conditions for them to participate actively and not to be pushed to the brink of society. Of course, the question is whether we are offering a broad enough palette for this inclusion, this is a question and we need to talk about it, but the basic purpose of the law, and the mechanisms to do so are the right ones. I would really not like to repeat what has been said about the human resources of operators. I think that the operators themselves have confirmed in the debate that they have done their utmost by extending the deadline, by simplifying the overall mechanisms, how they will be able to identify the instruments, and also by strengthening their base. I think the one who will bear the greatest burden upon the enforcement of this and the previous law is certainly the Ministry. Praise and sin will fall on them. They seem to be aware of their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u69	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 6? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We will, or I will, of course, support this amendment. For one simple reason, because I believe that the law itself is not assigned, and at least here something could be done in this area. I will read one issue recently published when the President of the Union of Roma Communities of Slovenia said: "With this we are more than 6 000 from the Balkans of immigrant Roma, who have Slovenian citizenship, that is, the same rights as other Slovenians." And if these gentlemen receive 500 euros a month of support, it amounts to three million euros a month or 36 million euros a year. In this situation in which the country is now a country, I think we should think a little bit more about these matters in this area. In short, the country is throwing sand into the eyes with some quasi-laws that are not going to fix anything, but they're just going to deepen things and provide more money in the system to the one who doesn't want to do it, so at least this amendment is going to fix it to some extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u71	I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 6, so I am putting Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS Group to the debate. Check-in is on. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u72	Mr President! Of course, I will support this amendment's proposal, but I would like to say a few sentences earlier, as the Committee president said that this law follows this trend to raise the minimum level of social security for our citizens and citizens. I don't think there's anyone here at the National Assembly who would object. We are all aware of this and it is logical that all parliamentary groups must strive to ensure that their citizens and citizens have minimum social security. Mr President, I'm sorry, I hope you won't interrupt me, because if everyone can say everything now, then I'd ask you nicely to let me, but I'll be brief, and I won't be dragging things around for much longer. The problem that I have previously highlighted is that nothing helps us if we are here talking about ensuring a minimum level of social security for our citizens and citizens if we adopt a law that will not be life-threatening, a law that will not be enforceable. Nothing helps me if we get papers on the table to get instructions from the social work center and then they can't make it happen. Then what we are doing here is really a waste of time, because we have simply constantly warned in our parliamentary group that it is necessary to prepare legislation that is acceptable, which can be implemented. In his earlier implementation, the Minister made the following very clear, among other things: that there are quite a few laws that are being prepared and which are already bound to this law and directly linked to this law – they are not yet being adopted. I don't know how we can now adopt a law that already contains solutions that will be laid down by some other laws that are still in the drafts. I don't get it. I don't get it. What, though, if those laws do not give effect to these provisions, and that law will not go in this direction? Mr Minister, this is mainly about those years, 63 women or 65 men – you know what I'm talking about. That's the problem. There are things that will be very difficult to reconcile with the social council, and the question is how will the vote be in this House. This law contains those solutions that are proposed in another legislation, and in addition a whole bunch of open issues, a whole bunch of sub-legislative acts, because on the one hand we are talking about sub-legislative acts that are part of this legislation and on the other hand we are talking about laws that are drafts in preparation. Some of the provisions in those draft laws already cover this law. That's what I don't think is right. As far as the committees are concerned. I am sure that every new commission is an additional administration, that no one will tell me, and also an additional financial burden. We already have a lot of problems with budgeting, etc., and again, new agencies, new commissions, etc. It always seems to me that things are much more complicated than finding solutions that would be cheaper, better and better for these citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also proposed an amendment to Article 12, which I have already mentioned to support, namely that the second paragraph of Article 12 should be deleted, provided that a more detailed explanation of the income referred to in the first paragraph of the preceding paragraph is determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for Social Protection, hereinafter referred to as 'the Minister responsible for Social Protection', in agreement with the Minister or Minister for Finance, hereinafter referred to as 'the Minister responsible for Finance'. All of these incomes are based on different substantive laws and regulations, where they are specified in more detail. Re-definition of these incomes is unnecessary only for the purposes of this Act and would create additional confusion in cases where the definition would differ from those already established. If the definitions were the same, it would be a build-up of regulations, which makes no sense. Therefore, once again, we will support the proposal of our amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u73	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just as I will not support the amendment to Article 6, I will not. But Mr Pojbich actually made my job easier. He read the explanation, which was also written to the amendment of the same parliamentary group which we received for consideration at the meeting of the Committee. And then the bill did say so, and now the amended bill states this second paragraph, which we would like to delete: "A more detailed definition of income data referred to in the first point of the preceding paragraph is determined by the Minister or Minister..." And so on. This is said to be a more detailed definition of income data. These revenues are set out in Article 12, paragraph 26, and it is right for the Minister to define income data as to how these common databases will be collected at a single entry point. I think that this correction has now removed the thought of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and it is good to read things carefully. I understand that we also want to discuss things more generally at the plenary session, because the law, however, has been dealt with in detail on a committee where the required number has been included, not just a small number, but amendments that have also emerged on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service, so I think that the text has now been cleared. Of course, I also remain in this law, as in the previous one, in the claim that the centres for social work are responsible. However, I am sure that in the country of Slovenia we will be able, in addition to sufficient technological equipment, to provide sufficient work for willing and trained government officials, who will also do their job for the benefit of service users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u75	Mr. Minister Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to answer a question that Mr Pojbič asked. First, with regard to the right to a protective supplement at 63 and 65 years of age. This right here in this law is not related to the current or not to the future pension law. However, it is a matter of defining it in such a way that someone who does not count on a pension that is greater than the amount of the protective allowance would not be stimulated to want to retire earlier. This is an instrument that we feel is still needed in these times when we are striving for longer work. As regards this amendment to Article 12. For the same reason as in the previous case, of course, we cannot support it. In the event that you allow, Mr Vice-President, Article 6, and if you want to change anything in terms of what is proposed, you should also open Article 7, which we have not done. Thus, this correction, which in essence does not bring about a major change in substance, is not necessary. Perhaps that is all we can say, Mr Pojbič, is that we are ready to implement this legislation. You insist that we're not. Now we have one jobless octopus, and we can hire her for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u77	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you. Very briefly. When it comes to explanations of vote, then I'll tell you everything I think about the law and the articles by the length and thread. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u79	Now, about Article 12. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u80	Now for the 12th. Thank you. Article 12 speaks only of what is considered to be own income under this law and then speaks also of what is not counted as own income under this law or under Article 12. This is where all the details are listed. If the debate on Article 12 were spread over these 26 and other points, then this would be a good contribution, but unfortunately it is not. Therefore, I will not support my colleague from the SDS of this amendment to Article 12. And another point of when the Minister of Finance should be involved is what this article contains. We know when and how the task of the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled is to provide for funds in the budget, and precisely from this law these resources will be defined and this is the basis for the implementation of the budget under this heading. That's why I can't support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u83	The 12th Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u84	That's right, on the 12th. Mr. Minister, the problems that this law will open, no unemployed octopus will be able to patch up. Trust me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u85	I'm closing the debate on the amendments. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 13. Seven. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u86	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, representatives and representatives of the Government, Minister, Ministers! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND ENTITIES With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be determined on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's parliamentary question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who raises the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. If the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within thirty days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Dr. Mr Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I also inform you that you have received an overview of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question to Prime Minister Borut Pahor will be asked first by Jože Tanko of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! Honourable President of the Strategic Energy Council, the Strategic Economic Council, the Strategic Decentralisation Council, the Council for Slovenians in place and around the world, probably the future President of the Strategic Tourism Council, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government! At the end of 2008, your Government received a government that had stable public finances and the second smallest debt in the region. It had better conditions for dealing with the economic crisis than, for example, Poland. Slovenia was among the most successful countries in the European Union in 2004-2008. The measures of the then government and coalition contributed greatly, as well as a cooperative approach, as it also invited the opposition to draft the reform laws. The response is good and all parties, except for the Liberal Democracy, have joined the development partnership. Today's a bad day. The need for cooperation is even greater than it has ever been. A year and a half ago, 15. 1. 2009, you have also received a written proposal from the SDS for Partnership 2+10. On 31 May last year, the president of the SDS sent you a letter re-offering his participation. In your immediate response, you wrote that you would first like to consider your decision with the coalition presidents of the parties. And that's what's left of it. Your partners' responses were interesting. Katarina Kresal said that the crisis must not end parliamentary democracy, nor the division of applications to the opposition and coalition, that the burden lies primarily with the Government and that we need decisive, swift and professional decisions. As a result of the whole type of indictments, there are not many elements to Ultra’s story regarding such a hope. Realising his relationship with anyone is obviously linked to his relationship with Ultra. You have recently called on the opposition to participate in the presentation of a disastrously poor budget balance. I'm asking: Is your offer to cooperate with the opposition this time, for the first time, sincere and serious, the second time, coalitionly coordinated, and the third time, operationally developed, so that it can be sent to parliamentary parties in writing? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u88	Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u89	In response to your question, let me focus on the part concerning the willingness of the political parties represented in the National Assembly to cooperate in the resolution of the economic and social crisis. As you know, I have made a sincere effort to do so since the beginning of my mandate, starting with my inaugural speech, in which I said that the experience of the previous mandate could be a good incentive for similar cooperation in this. Perhaps especially because the circumstances of the crisis are not only internal but also external. To a certain extent, we can influence the environment in which the Slovenian economy is being restored and strengthened, but partly not. At that time, I also called on representatives of all political parties to talk. The conversation was first held in December 2008 at the edge of our decision on some important decisions concerning Croatia. At that time, there were several different opinions on whether the parties should begin to discuss a document that would justify such a partnership, or whether we should take a pragmatic approach to cooperating on individual measures and visions of the Government or the opposition. The meeting of representatives of parliamentary parties at the beginning of the following year took precedence over the view that we should be practical and pragmatic. There's been a crisis, and we know it today, it's certainly unpredictable. We knew that, on the basis of experience from the previous mandate, we could waste anyone's time in preparing a document on how we would work together. And my proposal at the time was, let's take part in specific current issues, and perhaps this cooperation to this extent will strengthen confidence and also the ambition of all to finally reach a final document on this cooperation, which will have long-term guidelines for the development of Slovenia. After this meeting, which, by the way, had co-ordinated with the opposition on the government's austerity measures, which was late in the winter of 2009, a vote on Croatia's entry into NATO took place in the National Assembly. We know the complications, it was a question of linking the vote, where a two-thirds majority, i.e. your cooperation, was needed, with the question of deciding the coalition majority on the final account for 2007. At that time, there were likely sincere resentments on both sides that were unfair or unwise to make each other’s decisions. However, this has undermined some of the barely built-up confidence of political parties in the need for cooperation. And I later responded to your President's letter and reiterated my desire to cooperate and to participate where we ended up. And this is my offer today: let's work together where we're done. Without trying to harmonise a text before and as a condition for cooperation. Let the title of this text be Partnership for Development or Slovenia 2 plus 10 or anything else. If politics deals very much with the document, we will all be wasting the time and energy needed to coordinate concrete solutions and the long-term strategies or reforms ahead. That's about how I answered your president in a letter. There's probably no secret that I invited him to the interview last week, I hope this conversation comes. With one of the other presidents of the parliamentary parties, there has been an interview, and I hope that today, my colleague Radovan will accept my proposal to meet with him as President of the Slovenian People's Party next week. It is my desire to determine whether, given the willingness of the partners in the coalition, we will come back to a situation where we would simply sit at the table, identify what are the priorities - practical and strategic - and specifically agree on certain projects, how we will work together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Tanko's answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I find that there was no answer to the three questions I asked. In doing so, I would like to remind you that, even in the previous term, the opposition has repeatedly undermined each other's trust, especially before and during the Presidency of the European Union, as those governments have been thrown under their feet, and that coalition has never ceased their cooperation. If you only remember the Washington dispatch or, say, the famous petitions of journalists who found the basis in your pre-election program. Nor did the offer that we submitted have any written comments, no new offer has been submitted, the government has come up with a proposal for cooperation even less, and it is stuck somewhere. At the time, you wrote that you would consider this with your coalition presidents. And now we want to know what the results of this weighting are. We know that the next step has not been taken, and we know that Slovenia is in great trouble. Days ago you also had a coalition summit in Brdo, where all coalition presidents, many ministers, Members of Parliament were gathered, and you also addressed strategic topics. And perhaps one of these strategic issues would also be cooperation with the opposition in the preparation of the measures. Many of these things have been lost during this period and it is difficult to find anything in the actions of the previous government, which would give an argument for such behaviour. I'm asking: What are the next steps in implementing your initiative to cooperate with the opposition and when can we expect them? And I'm asking: Are you joining the Golobič opinion that Janšev’s proposal to participate in partnership is 2 plus 10 death for democracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u93	I don't want to have to go through my readings again, not answering my questions, and I'm gonna answer the last two right now. After my performance in the budget rebalancing, I kept my word and invited the president of the biggest opposition party to an interview. I also had the president of one of the other opposition parties, and I hope, as it is said, that the president of the opposition party, i.e. the SLS, may also be joining me in this initial interview for a long time. I am working towards these talks, and I hope that, on the basis of these interviews, I will be able to take the principle view among us in the Government, so that we can make practical and smart use of the time to discuss concrete issues, short-term and long-term issues. And a second time. I do not think that cooperation between the political forces, if they are in the opposition and in the coalition, is a threat to democratic order because it creates entropy of responsibility. Even if we cooperate, it is quite clear that the responsibility for running the country is here on this side of the National Assembly and that you have your responsibilities, in accordance with your responsibilities, in which the Government does not want and cannot cut. And now most importantly, Comrade Tanko. Fighting about cooperation is pointless. If we talk about cooperation, then we all talk together in good faith or we leave the discussion of cooperation. I speak in good faith. If the president of your party wants to accept my invitation to an interview, I will be pleased and adapt to his obligations. The same applies to fellow Radovan and the same applies to his fellow Victory. Then I will consult with my colleagues in the coalition and there will be a meeting of everyone, even in July. I'll be very pleased with that. I hope I answered your question. Let's be practical, the situation is too strategic to deal with ourselves, but we have to deal with the problems they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked five relatively short questions, none of them had any concrete answers. I asked whether the offer was serious and sincere, whether it was coalitionly coordinated and whether it was operationally developed, so that you could also forward it to parliamentary parties in writing. I also asked you about further steps in this, you have answered this in part, and I asked you about the opinion of your Minister Golobic and his attitude towards Janša's Partnership Initiative 2 plus 10 when he said it was probably the death of democracy. So with the answers, Mr. President, I'm not satisfied. Our initiative at the beginning of 2009 was serious and supported by concrete proposals. We had, and we also have, solutions that make sense to consider and also to consider. And there's no way past them with a swing of your hand. Regrettably, the proposals we tabled in the National Assembly have also been rejected every time by reasoning that they deepen the deficit, deepen public debt, are unbalanced, and that the government has better or even the best solutions. None of this has proved to be true, however, because the crisis is escalating and the deficit and public debt are growing without adopting one of our own proposals. You are the president of many strategic councils set up by the Government, you are indispensable in the Economic and Social Council, where solutions for work, legal, social, health, pension and other legislation are coordinated, and you also directly regulate the situation in the Clinical Centre, Slovenian Railways and perhaps elsewhere. And you may agree that social measures alone cannot trigger the economy and that together we must find answers to the challenges of this time. For us they will not be prepared by others, not Germany, not by anyone, but even though our exports have a great deal of weight in our structure. You also had a meeting at the Hill last week. There, as I understand it, you held a debate on a series of strategic issues, budget planning, labour legislation, health legislation, but you did not discuss such an important topic as cooperation with the opposition on key issues. At least that wasn't a message to the public. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government and see if this intention is serious or if it is merely a matter of eulogy. Much of this will also be seen by the coalition vote at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. On Jožet Tank's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the government's response to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 13 July, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav from the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government! Recently, via the media we have been familiar with such or other intentions of the Government for direct or direct sales, according to my assessment of Slovenian strategic state property. We are also aware of the organisational changes related to certain strategically important companies in the Republic of Slovenia. Here I am referring to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by a strategic partner and the renewed idea of establishing a large logistics holding company. With the consideration of the budget rebalancing for this year and the problems in public finances and the confirmation of the guarantees that have recently taken place in the National Assembly, activities related to certain strategic companies have fallen into a strange light. The financial and economic crisis cannot and must not be an alibi for the loss of a majority Slovenian share in the most important bank, and it must not be an alibi to do some stupidity by setting up some logistical mastodon to make the matter even less transparent than it is now. The serious countries of ownership of the largest banks have never, I stress, let go of their own hands. That's why, Mr. President, I'm interested in: Has your government adopted any strategy for the sale of state property or capital investments by the Republic of Slovenia that go beyond the framework of the State-owned property sales programmes for the period of the budgets adopted? Did you define any of these investments as investments of special or strategic importance during the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia? I want to know: Which one? What is the government's strategy with such strategic investments? By the way, to answer you, I'm sure I'll attend the meeting if you invite me. I already said that in the debate when we talked about the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u99	First of all, thank you very much for your answer regarding our close encounter after one has been done. I hope that there will also be a meeting with colleague Janez Janša and that we will then find out what is the most appropriate next step for joint cooperation. This will be necessary in view of the situation in the European Union and national economies, but this is not the subject of this issue. The subject of your question concerns three answers on my part. First time. I would remind you that the National Assembly has recently adopted a law on the management of capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. Now he's in government to prepare a strategy. My secretary-general and I have determined that this will be ready by autumn. My wish is to have it ready as soon as possible. The capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia will be established. At the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Economy today, I have already said that the choice of the people who will run this agency will be one of the most important human resources choices for the future of Slovenia, so we will pay all due attention to it. Now, to the question of my answer, it will be possible for the general public to judge my answer. First of all, let there be no fear or on the other hand that any decision regarding the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has been taken at any of the competent forums or levels of the Government. It is true, however, that we are consulting on this issue, which is also right. After all, the Slovenian state, the Government as the legal owner, is an important asset manager in this largest Slovenian bank. Our future of this bank, and probably of you, worries. It is concerned in this sense that what we can do in the legislative sense and in the decisions taken by the Government as the legal owner would enable it to become a successful and strong player in the regional area. To become that, he needs recapitalisation. The question that arises is whether the National Assembly will decide between the two key alternatives on a proposal from the Government that we will recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank from the budget, even if it is balance B - in fact this means an increase in the deficit, as has already been said today - or whether this need will be serviced by the entry of a new strategic partner or consortium of these partners. I understand that this debate, in the end, is also a political debate with all fairness. However, as President of the Government and my colleagues, we are striving to come before you with a proposal that would also be technically justified. And because we want to do so, we are talking and consulting with the administration of the Ljubljana Bank and with the Supervisory Council, what they think would be best for their business aspirations to be achieved. This is that the Ljubljana Bank would not only remain a national savings centre or become a national savings centre, but that with the necessary investment of money and new financial products it could become a slightly more successful financial player in the markets around us. This option is available to the bank, and this option can only be used through recapitalisation. Which way we're going to go, we're gonna make a decision here in this congregation. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, do not be too quick to worry about your decision-making. However, let me say, I hope you are equally eager to support the Government's efforts to prepare yourself very thoroughly for the decision we are about to make. And I want to prepare myself thoroughly for this decision. Let me tell you my personal opinion. My personal opinion has been for many years that the Slovenian economy must have as a small and open economy a bank in which the country has a majority share. Today, I am no longer of the same opinion. Today, I believe that the entry of a strategic partner who has a long-term desire for income and wants banks as a starting point for strengthening the banking share in the region would be wider, so that this would be useful for our national benefits. However, I am prepared to consult on this as well as on other issues. And I'm starting to let myself do this. And now I'd like to tell you the strategic reason for that. Slovenia, in particular, cannot finance our own development in the context of the economic crisis, which will obviously be longer than anyone has planned. The money in the capital market is enough in the global economy today, the only question is where, when, and whom we will let go and which investments to finance this development as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. Crane, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Last week, at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we discussed the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, but unfortunately, the participation of those invited from government parties was under any criticism, I must say. The Committee was attended only by Minister Križanič with the Secretary of State, there was no one from the Ministry of the Economy and also there was no Minister of Gaspari from the Office of the Government for Development and European Affairs. And part of the criticism to Minister Gaspari, who for some time has almost ignored the National Assembly.You were missing, by the way, also you who were invited, but, okay, I understand. That's why we stopped the meeting, too, because there wasn't a real interlocutor. The President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank said that recapitalisation was needed at a minimum of around 250 million, including up to 500 million. But he was pretty vague when he was talking about the reasons. Among the reasons he mentioned, among other things, bad loans. But, excuse me, anyhow, someone with a name and surname has approved credit based on some of the submitted bases, documents, evidence. The responsibility of individuals, administrations, supervisory boards, "risk of management" should be claimed, and so on, if not everything has been carried out in accordance with the internal rules of the bank, rather than giving to some, by the way, millions of rewards. I believe that it is imperative to consider merging the New Ljubljana Bank with the Triglav Insurance Office. This would create a strong financial pillar that would be much easier to resist in the banking and insurance markets. At the same time, such a financial institution would be a good marriage for entry into foreign markets., If I understand you correctly, President of the Government, you are thinking about recapitalising Nova Ljubljanska Banka by a foreign strategic partner. I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u102	I've given my personal opinion, and I hope that this will not be taken lightly. I think it's right that we have an honest conversation. That is what I said when we met at the first working meeting of the Governing Council or the senior representatives of the New Ljubljana Bank a long time ago. Also because I know that in the end this will be a political issue. However, I would like to see the policy decide on this and have all the responsibility to decide because it is now the majority owner of this bank to decide on the basis of professional arguments. As we say, we have two options. Whether we give the money to the taxpayer, perhaps worth half a billion euros, thus allowing for the strategic ambitions recorded by the Administration and the Supervisory Board in Strategy 2010/2015. Or to invite a strategic partner, Slovenia loses the majority stake in the bank, but retains the control share. Maintain the control share and make it impossible for a strategic partner to exhaust this bank in the future due to similar, comparable circumstances, as in early 2009, when the whole of Eastern Europe saw a wave of maternal exhaustion by Western European banks [[..]] We will continue to consult and there is no secret that we have different views in the government on this issue. My colleague Križanič, who is the competent minister, has different views on this. My question, which remains unanswered, is: Can a short and comprehensible study be made to answer the question whether Slovenia has any easier to overcome some of the problems of credit crunch, liquidity problems in the economy, since the country was the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank or not? Has this made it easier to regulate the recovery of the banking and financial system or not? Would a strategic partner be an obstacle to the government's intervention and regulation of the government of the banking and financial system in this regard? If the answer to this question is positive and clear, then it is likely that part of the professional and perhaps most political public will also decide that the bank will remain in majority state ownership, as far as the current consolidated share of assets is concerned, and thereby reassurance its interest in similar circumstances. However, it may turn out exactly the opposite, so that the control share would be completely sufficient to avoid burdening the budget and taxpayers' money, to invest it in other investments that would have a shorter-term return and would allow the bank to achieve those goals that the Slovenian Committees and the Slovenian economy wish to achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. You want a procedure? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that these are very important issues, and I would like to speak on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. My assessment is that at this time of crisis we may be making too many decisions. In particular, as regards the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as related to logistics holding. Consideration should also be given to the New Bank of Ljubljana regarding the disposal of unnecessary commercial property, much of it, and to the end of the number of possible recapitalisation, which, in my opinion, would be significantly lower in this case. And yet, once again, I stress, consider possible merger with insurance company Triglav. It is a merger that would give great synergies not only on the domestic market but also on the potential markets to which both institutions are being infiltrated. As for logistics holding, however, we must first answer the question of what is the biggest problem in Slovenia and logistics. Slovenia's biggest problem is in railway infrastructure. And my assessment is that by establishing a logistics mastodon to which we will artificially drag Luka Koper, we will not solve the problem of building a railway infrastructure. Unless Mr Mehdorn has a few billion euros in his pocket. That way, maybe. Otherwise, it's just an organisational change, the right answer as to how we're going to build rail infrastructure, but we don't have one. In any case, however, account should be taken of all the experiences, positive and negative that we have accumulated when building the highway cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 13 July 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by the winner of Jelinčič of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 2000, the Assembly of the Western European Union offered Slovenia the opportunity to establish an Aeronautical Museum of the Western European Union in our country. The Council of Europe, with the Presidency of Mr De Puig, confirmed this and applied this idea to the establishment of various European museums across European countries [[..]] It was a project in which approximately 450 people would be employed directly and that would involve some 2 000 jobs. In fact, this would begin the development of the entire Pomur region. Two visits from the Defence Committee of the Western European Union were in Slovenia, which agreed together. Nothing happened on our side until a police action by the Minister of the Interior took place, with night-to-night investigations of American anti-terrorist actions carried out in Afghanistan, and there they carried out during the afternoon and not at night, as they wanted to do in my case, when a three-and-a-six-year-old girl with fast-shooters at night was pushed against the wall by special forces and looked forward. It's a good thing the operational police thought differently than the police. The result was that no dog orgy photos were found, but they accused me and the former Minister of Bribery regarding the Aeronautics Museum. It was a very perfidious action which, on the one hand, aimed at discrediting the minister, on the other hand, the purpose of discrediting me as a political leader and, thirdly, the destruction of the only smart project that could save the pomur region of the flood. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister: What's with this whole bribery thing where I've been dragged and I've become a star on CNN, on the BBC, and all over the world? What about the Aeronautics Museum project itself? Will it or won't it, how far and how far and how is it going?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u108	On your second question, I'm not quite sure what you're more interested in right now. But with regard to your question about the investigation, let me say that this is done by the competent prosecutor and that the Slovenian government is not involved in this, nor is the competent minister involved. We'll be informed of the results, as is the legal order. What I have to say and I want to answer today is a principled and real relationship with your project, the Aeronautics Museum. It's not a new idea. We've known her for years. As I am of my own time, I am also sympathetic to this project today. As always, one and the most important question is asked, and this is the financial structure of such a project. I know that they are also interested in building or implementing such a project in neighbouring countries. If we could, and with private investors, certainly not only with the country, we certainly have the opportunity to negotiate directly with the European Commission the value of co-operation through the Cohesion Fund, that is about over €50 million if the financial structure were closed. And the second condition is that if the congregation responsible for determining the destination of land were to agree on this, then I think we could proceed with the project. I mean, up to some policy decisions and even budgetary policies have already been made. I see no reason not to continue with them. So there are two conditions. With regard to both of them, the Government will be in charge of this after receiving your question from the State Secretary, two have already done so. First time. Take a look at the financial aspects of this project with you. I do not think that it is necessary to speak out here so that we do not witness the only project that has certainly been planned in good faith, that it will also be carried out, and then, because of the circumstances, it has proved that without the help of a State such a project we would not be able to complete if the Government can and is in its power, it helps to complete such projects. Another time. Once we have assured private investors that they see a financial interest in such an Aeronautics Park because it is also of interest to other countries, and this shows that this can be an attractive investment, we will try to reach an agreement on destination with the local authorities as far as we can. You know that the Agriculture Ministry initially rejected some of the decisions involved. I think there's some flexibility on both sides that would have a tail and a head. In short, that good agricultural land could not be used to build such parks, but that a land that cannot serve another, such as such buildings, could also be found in this part of Slovenia or elsewhere, as other places in Slovenia, as you know, colleague Jelinčič, are interested in building this project. In the short run, you'll have the government's intention. I can only speak as president here now. The government in this composition has not yet decided on this project, a game for some principled decision of the government regarding the continuation of this project. However, my Secretary of State will consult you and ask you for any information on the interests of private investors, without whom you are now, despite the assistance of the European Commission, if they were reached through the Cohesion Fund, I cannot represent the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. That's right. It's a financial construct. The financial structure was built six years ago, and none of this was done. That is why 20 private companies and I personally invested our financial capital and established the Institute of Aeronautical Museum, which conducted a feasibility study. This feasibility study showed that the project would be paid in the 12 to 15 years. There is no project in Slovenia to be paid so quickly. The fact is, this is the so-called Aeronautics Park of Experience, as called by the Secretary. It should be known that there would also be the largest photovoltaic power plant in Europe, probably in the world. But nobody cares. The fact is that certain companies are still insisting on this project, although they do not see the possibility or a much more difficult possibility to finance, because I had prepared the financiers. The country could enter and enter only in this segment in order to obtain free exhibits from various European countries and other world countries in this museum. Here, however, the state did not want to help because the matter was driven by Jelinčič and not by any LDS or by Zares. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture also has a scissors and linen at its disposal. They decide that part of the earth, not the congregation. The Ministry did not hope to do so because of the severe attacks by the Minister of the Interior. One minister resigned and the other fears that he will be also investigated and perhaps imprisoned. Therefore, please, Prime Minister, I would like more specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u112	We will try to spend time until the beginning of the political autumn, until the September session on some of the useful things we as a country need. Let me say again, colleague Jelinčič, this is the essential starting point for all of our other definitions regarding domestic and foreign investments. Slovenia is a small economy to finance its own development in line with our expectations. We want to be a competitive economy, we want to have a socially connected society, ergo if we don't want to have a deficit, and no one wants to have a deficit, not a budget or an increased public debt, we are dependent on investments - domestic and, in particular, foreign investments. Let me tell you again. My experience in discussions with the leaders of various countries shows that there is enough and too much interest in the capital market for Slovenia. Our task is to relatively soon determine what, when and with whom we want to participate capital and investment in Slovenia. What we are prepared to offer in a private-public partnership, what we are prepared to offer to foreign investors in a long-term strategic partnership. This is our homework. I say - it is an interest, and we must relatively soon start to decide on these important issues. As far as your initiative is concerned, let me say that we look at it with affection, on the condition that it is financially sustainable, and I believe that if we reach agreement on some of the things that foreign investors want, based on my discussions, we can also get some financial assistance for this investment, not aid, but there is a financial interest in participating in this investment. [[..]] In the summer we will do some homework, and that is why I have rushed to appoint a new Minister of Economy, and I ask the National Assembly to decide this week. In September, in particular if there is an agreement between the leaders of parliamentary parties and the experts to meet at one, two substantive talks, I would like to present some ideas of a strategic nature, how to continue to drive development policy, not only to reduce the budget deficit, but to start reducing the dynamics of public debt, so that the servicing of public debt will be sustainable, so that we know exactly where we want foreign investment and which financial and business institutions we want to keep the majority share in.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The fact is, it's a public-private partnership. I've said that a few times. And it's an absolute financial sustainable investment. On the other hand, one wonders what investment is being made in Slovenia in the 12-15 years. Certainly there will be no building of a new thermal block in Šostjan, where 1.6 billion euros will disappear, which is significantly more than a project that would lead to the development of the Pomeranian region. The fact is, one wonders, earlier you mentioned other positions and other locations, whether the Government is even interested in the development of the Pomur region. The Slovenian Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy has published a book on the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region from 2010 to 2015, nothing like what we have been saying today is mentioned in this publication or far from being mentioned. I have a strong feeling that the Pomur region, when you made the law on the rescue of the Pomur region, fell off your shoulders and you think it's all over now and it's all going well. I think this is just the beginning. There's nothing going on in this segment. And if you really want to solve that end, do something. Foreign investors were willing to invest, but the Slovenian government was not willing to invest. So take steps now, find investors. It is evident that such investments, which reverse capital so quickly, have support in the world, but it is true that it is necessary to find it. It is true, however, that it is necessary in the government to have professional people, people who know a matter of reading, who understand an article that they can communicate economically with foreigners and who know how to find these financial resources that, I agree with you, in the world enough and much. Since I do not think that we have received any reply here, I propose that at one of the next meetings we consider the point on the development of the Pomeranian region in general, especially in relation to this largest rescue project of the Pomeranian region, this is with the Aeronautic Museum. And I ask you, Mr President, to put this initiative to the vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 13 July 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, in the light of recent events, such as the "Balkan Warrior" action, we would also like to point out, in the light of the pending court proceedings in the field of Taiwanese entrepreneurship, the need for the early regulation of the area of temporary confiscation or freezing of the suspect's assets in case of suspicion that this property could be obtained in an unlawful manner, as well as the subsequent permanent confiscation of this property, if it is found that the suspicion is justified. This is supposed to be the worst crimes in the area of money laundering, drugs, white goods, arms trafficking and the like, not all crimes. As we could read in the media about the "Balkan Warrior" affair, which was of international dimension, for example, in Serbia they already have such a law and were able to take appropriate action in recent events. Interestingly, this law was also helped to write by OECD representatives. The purpose of the seizure is to prevent the accused from selling such suspicious property or transferring money to family members during the pre-trial and criminal proceedings. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative to freeze the assets of a suspicious source in the first step, which is not regulated in our country. In the Group of Members, we have indeed prepared a number of large-scale issues, as we are about to see at this moment the resolution of this problem, and we have referred them to the competent ministries, here in particular the Ministry of Finance, but of course to others. In this initiative, we express our expectation that by autumn the Government will draft such a law and put it into practice, including professional consideration. Of course, we expect such a law to be passed by the new year, which would be necessary. We are aware of some problems, some concerns, but let me say that the assessment in the Council of Europe report on Slovenia has been recorded so that the budget can obtain some 400 million euros at an annual level. That's why I'm asking you: Are you aware of this pressing problem, which I do not doubt, and in what way can we expect the Government to approach a more appropriate and effective solution in this area? Many European countries already have such solutions, particularly as regards the reverse burden of proof, including Italy, Luxembourg, Denmark, Belgium, Ireland, Romania and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I ask for the answer of the Prime Minister of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u118	Since we were all able to see soon after the start of the crisis that it is not only economic and social dimensions, but also many others, we in the government, I think that we have already proved by our actions that we know that we are cutting down on, say, structural reforms also in the area of the modernisation of the rule of law. I think a few steps have been taken here. Perhaps I would mention here in the National Assembly a law on integrity, which shows the Government's absolute determination to try to follow the state-of-the-art experience of comparable countries by following those regulations that guarantee, I will say, the rule of law. First of all, to your question, the legislation already in force is, of course, allowing the seizure of property if it has been obtained by a criminal offence. Secondly, regardless of your question, I do not remember the exact reason, the Minister of Justice in the Government has already discussed the issue of updating our legislation with a novel that would bring back so-called reverse proof reading. I'm not a lawyer by profession, I don't want to go into questions that I haven't grown up with, I understand it's a professional, delicate question. There are countries that have one way or another saved this way. The fact is that, as some others, Slovenia, I understand, also advised the Council of Europe to study this. And the Minister of Justice convened a conference on open issues concerning the regulation of confiscation of property benefits for September this year, i.e. in two months. All of this leads to a decision or preparation by the Slovenian Government to update legislation everywhere where we believe we can take a step forward in ensuring the legal security of people and confidence in the instruments of the rule of law that we introduce by law and by constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Flower of the Lobster Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President. I am pleased that you have already begun to study these relatively difficult professional questions in the government. However, it is true that all studies show that the perpetrators of these most delicate crimes, which are intended to reduce countries in the European Union's area alone at annual level by between 1 and 1.6 trillion dollars per year or between 2 and 5% of the world's gross social product here. This is therefore an extremely important area. where, in fact, both countries and individuals feel that countries are powerless to do so. Studies show that the perpetrators are most sensitive to the fact that they are not actually burdened by any kind of punishment. When they return from prison, all this property still awaits them in one way or another. And this withdrawal has proved to be a very good and effective and, in fact, the most effective defence for these crimes. It is also important that what we have pointed out is the reverse burden of proof; the perpetrator who has been proven guilty in court or who is already a convict must prove in what way he acquired that part of the property, for which neither through his tax reports nor the tax paid proves how it was obtained. Here a number of questions are raised, but European practice is such and we have also found a number of judgments by the European Court of Human Rights, which make it clear that they do not see human rights violations occurring in this respect. Therefore, I hope that in the autumn it is really with such a draft proposal [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to say? [[Not]] . We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 18th meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, will first answer the question of Marijan Križman concerning the Osp Guard and the respective land. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u122	Mr President, Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, President of the Government! The decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was 18. 2. 1999 real estate transferred to the Ministry of the Interior and to the Ministry of the Interior and then to the Ministry of the Interior by way of a takeover record on 17. 3. 1999 provided for the use and management of the Centre for Education and Training Activities, which is within the Ministry of Education and Sport. The property consists of a lawn, a residential building and a yard. It is listed in the Land Book at the Administrative Court in Koper, the area of Ozp. The Centre for School and Educational Activities has begun to obtain project documentation for the reconstruction of the existing facility and the construction of an asset to this facility, for which the Centre has spent its own resources of EUR 19 000 453. The design documentation shall be designed and prepared for the acquisition of the building permit. In accordance with the amendment to the spatial development plan of the Centre for School and School Activities, which no longer foresees renewal, the sale of the property in question is under way. No interest was expressed after the internal market for real estate within the Government’s departments and a tender for public auction is being prepared. The Ministry of Education and Sport has received a letter from the Municipality of Koper proposing that the property be earmarked for the needs of the local community, i.e. in the spirit of which you ask the Member. The Ministry considers that resources are needed as a matter of priority to continue the remaining investment programmes of our Centre for School and School Activities, because budgetary resources are very modest. This is a significant change in the management circumstances and the availability of investment funds, and the CSD must urgently disinvest itself in this area, thus allowing for a new flow for other priorities. At the Ministry, we will explore the possibility of harmonising the procedure with the possible intention of the Municipality of Koper exercising the preliminary right if it is established in spatial acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Lukšič will also answer the question of the Mag. Majde Travel related to amendments to the rules on the management of textbook funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you. Madam Ambassador! The textbooks upset the Slovenian public, especially the publishers, because they estimated that the new regulation would cause great damage. It turns out that this is not the case, but the new regulation establishes a new order, in particular following the values of economic use of created property, such as textbooks, solidarity in the form of textbook funds, sustainable development, which means that textbooks are for multiple use and not just for one generation, and then we throw them away, quality and that textbooks are cheap. With the introduction of school funds in school policy, parents have been given the opportunity to pay only one third of the price in the form of money. And so it was possible for parents to value textbooks. Then the country entered and started paying this third through the budget. This amount was between €4 million and €5 million. In today's crisis, we have found that changing textbooks, as originally set out, especially at the turn of an eight-year-old to a nine-year-old, is no longer necessary for textbooks to be well preserved and it would be right to provide funds as good hosts only for usable and useless textbooks. That's what we've put in these rules. So the country pays only those textbooks that are used to the extent that they can no longer be used. If those who run it decide to replace all the books, all the textbooks in the schoolyard, then it is the burden of parents or donors or anyone else. The state won't cooperate here. The important thing is that the school world has to decide about this. The School Council must take a decision on this as a good host, and in this case parents who are in the school world also decide. The second part, which is important, is the issue of work volumes. Work volumes became widely used in Slovenian education when teaching funds were acquired. When publishers lost a share of the funds by teaching funds, say, at least a third, some estimate a whole two-thirds, which is probably excessive, but let's say a third, then they focused on the production of work volumes that were not in the textbook funds and had to be bought by parents for their children every year on a new one. And this number of work volumes has been greatly multiplied for individual objects. Gradually, it was the share that parents had to pay for textbooks, i.e. a third, and for work volumes in full, sometimes the same amount of funds as before when there were no textbook funds. As the number of work volumes in the various subjects increased and the price went unrelentingly up, we introduced the possibility that the world of parents would decide or agree to the price of textbooks, a set for a particular class. We have introduced a mechanism by which someone, the paying one, can stop the price. Of course, in the first year this has not yet happened, only some parents have taken this right to return the textbooks in the set to the teacher’s assessment. But mostly that didn't happen. But we've established this option. The choice of textbook and workbook remains with the teacher. Teacher's autonomy is still strong here. With regard to the price that parents eventually have to pay, parents also have the right to pronounce their judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Mr Minister, Mr President, for your word. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The story of textbooks seems to be without a happy ending. When we had only one textbook for each subject, the desire for a large number of textbooks was very intense. Now that teachers have the option to choose between different textbooks, we feel that this is what irritates the textbooks. I myself advocate the idea that it is better to have more quality textbooks and teachers before me to leave the choice of those who, to the greatest extent possible, ensure the achievement of the objectives of learning. Part of the problem is that a set of work volumes has been excluded from the Commission's decision-making powers. Because of the things you mentioned, Mr Minister, a hybrid appeared between the textbook and the workbook, because writing in the textbook caused the textbook to become useless in the following year. The problem is that, on the one hand, some items require work volumes and, on the other hand, work volumes, due to a relatively high price, will have an impact on the decision of parents, and they will agree. You, Mr. Secretary, are now between Scylla and the Caribbean. On the one hand, publishers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u127	Colleague of Doomsday, time is not measured because it's a mistake, but you've already spent two minutes to supplement and you need to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u128	I'll release the illustrative material and ask the minister: How are you going to get out of the accusations you're getting from the publishers and from the school authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you. Minister, how are you gonna get away with this?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u130	[[Laugh]] Exclusion is always a difficult matter, not part of a strategy. I just want to set up a system whereby those who pay will have a few words when deciding, at least on the price. That seems important to me. On the other hand, I will also ask the expert to reconsider where the mass use of work volumes leads. In addition, I should say that at the beginning of my term of office, I set up a committee for textbooks that included both co-workers at the Ministry and publishers, but after the first meeting it proved that this was in fact just some interesting dispute as to whether publishers would like to introduce textbooks for the bench for each year, and this was to be financed by the State, which would amount to between 10 million and 20 million in the budget. This was certainly not a matter of priority for the Ministry of Education during the crisis. We have now set up a new commission on the basis of a representative representative representative of the publishers, as proposed by the Subcommittee of the Publishing Committee at the Chamber of Commerce. And this task force started work. It has the task of finding an appropriate model to make textbooks and work volumes significantly cheaper – i.e. it now amounts to, say, an eighth grade of €300, textbooks plus work volumes – to see what it will be possible to use electronic textbooks and materials so that at least in this segment of work volumes we can start using already prepared electronic materials and at the same time start working electronic textbooks. And of course, to maintain quality, this is crucial to the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Because Dr. Franz Križanič will answer the unanswered questions of Daniel Krivec, Milenko Ziherl and Jožef Jerovska at the next meeting of the assembly. Also, due to the absence of unanswered parliamentary questions, Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar will answer Jožef Jerovška and Milenka Ziherl at the next meeting. We are moving on to the question of Members of Parliament and Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In September 2009, the government adopted a budget memorandum for 2010 and 2011 and wrote on page 27: "There is also a real estate tax law in preparation. It is planned to apply in 2011. The law will compensate for two existing taxes, compensation for the use of building land and property tax. A major change is expected to be a more comprehensive use of real estate in taxation through the Single National Real Estate Register at the Geodetic Authority and the determination of the tax base on the basis of the general market value found in the Mass Valuation System. The result of this change," this is important, "should be an increase of at least half a percent of the gross domestic product. As this is a matter of municipal income, it will also be necessary to adapt the law on the financing of municipalities and to redistribute income between municipal and state budgets for the benefit of the latter." With the introduction of a new tax, this will be a municipal revenue, while municipalities will receive less money from the budget, which means that this tax will be reflected in the national budget. You are already forecasting in the budget memorandum a new tax and additional tightening of the tax screw. In recent days, we have been able to see in the media that there will be a beginning of this issue in the autumn, so one question is asked. In a time of financial, economic crisis, when the state raises excise taxes that significantly exacerbate the business of economic operators and make it difficult, even the lives of citizens are more expensive, a new tax is expected, which will significantly increase the revenue of the state budget, which means that it will significantly withdraw from the pockets of people and the economy. What I'm interested in is: What concept will the Minister of Finance propose to the Government for adoption and consequently to the National Assembly? How much more income do you expect from taxation for economic operators and how much for households? How much will a household with an average accommodation, a two-bedroom apartment, or a single-family house, a four-bedroom family pay more tax after a new one? And I'm especially interested in: How much will the economy be burdened? Since the Minister is not here today, I expect an oral response at the next meeting. I hope that by then he can also serve with very specific information.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We'll let the minister know. Parliamentary question to Minister of Health Dorian Marusic will be asked by Andrej Magajna [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u134	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Both the proposal for a Health Act and the newly approved first reading of the RTV Act allow for profitable commercial market activity in public institutions in addition to public activities. In the designated law on RTV, operators of commercial market activities will be able to pay their basic salary. This is said to be further stimulated to work in commercial projects. I'm asking the minister: Will RTV also introduce in health care this model of stimulation, which is controversial for me, to pay prizes? I also ask the Minister: Will health care introduce a higher percentage of the moving stimulus work for the good of basic public health activities? I also ask: What instruments do you expect to discourage health care providers from directing their energy, human resources, financial potentials, equipment and investments into the market acquisition segment of public institutions? I hope that the question was clear, although it was a bit provocative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u135	Please, Minister of Health, Dr. Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u136	Dear Mr Magajna, thank you for this question. In a way, we are also disclosing the presentation of the amendment to members of the coalition, where I am trying to present my views on a more efficient organisation and restructuring of the health system. First, let us immediately clarify that it is already possible to carry out a market activity in the healthcare system. The rules are applied precisely in the Regulation on labour performance for the sale of goods and services and the market, that this activity is still used today as a percentage, to say that in 2009, 8,5 % of the funds were obtained in market activities, in hospitals 1.5 % as a minimum, and most of them in the CFSP 37,6 %. This does not imply that this is an important activity. I don't think it's transparent enough either. If we talk about how and what we want to put into the future. Very simple, public health institutions are first set up to carry out public health services, and this should therefore be one of the fundamental criteria. First of all, they must carry out this scope, but if there were to be free capacity in the light of the wider space of the European Union, then this activity could be allowed. If we somehow relate to the law on RTV or culture, I wonder why we would not allow it in the field of health care. If you ask me about stimulating work, I will try to convince you that the answer to the many problems that have arisen in the healthcare system – from weak or unspoken or unregulated standards, from paid balancing, on-call problems – is one of the possible outcomes, and I will also make the appropriate arguments, ensuring greater autonomy of operators. through leadership with a clear vision and mission, through the middle management. and the state remains the owner, the state only gives in the management of the management of the institutions and in the management of its activities. I believe that in the field of health, too, many countries of the European Union could be followed to ensure adequate accessibility, healthcare provision by means of variable or stimulating work. In particular, this model is used in countries where there is a relative or absolute shortage of healthcare professionals, doctors and nurses, which is a pressing problem in Slovenia. In my opinion, this is one possible solution that would allow for the sustainability of the healthcare system in the future. Strengthen parental ownership, incentives to carry out their activities primarily in their own establishment, in some way responds to at least some of this disstimulating investment in potential market activity. However, by introducing tools for evaluating technologies that will enable the establishment of a response network of the health system according to the needs of the population, they also respond to the fact that there would be no unreasonable investment, to an overrich public network that is not needed today, even at today's highway crossing, and in this way they have made more careful use of public funds for the necessary infrastructure, so that it is not necessarily used for market purposes as well. I believe and have many arguments that greater autonomy with stimulating, variable work could be one of the answers to the challenges in the healthcare system in the future. I expect, and in a way also an optimistic look in the coming weeks, when we will coordinate that the thesis will be supported and in the amendments will also come into the law that will then be presented in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u138	I thank you for your comprehensive response. Nevertheless, the emphasis on my question may be a little in the other direction. In fact, I do not mind, as I also said in the debate on the law on RTV, that part of the programmes is being marketed, for example, the advertising space markets the issuing of blankets to sell a good concert to other networks, and why not in health some apparatus that is not 100% used, marketed or obtained from this institution. I fear, however, the risk of spilling these public funds into private pockets. It's a kind of synchronization of actions, institutes. On the one hand, financial autonomy of institutions, commercial programs and awards. Rewarding those who will deal with these programs. There will be some temptation here that this part may increase disproportionately, in fact, that health workers will be too motivated for this part of the programme and, on the other hand, we are lacking exactly stimulation in this basic health work, in order to ensure that healthcare professionals are as committed as possible to what they are actually employed for. This is why I am talking about destimulation for these market programmes, contrary to the fact that they devote themselves to the greatest extent, that this is only an exception in some sense to the marketing of capacities that would otherwise not be used, but not to some clever mechanism through which public resources are actually channelled into private pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u140	Maybe a very short comment. We practically have very similar and shared views. I highlighted first the concern for the basic mission, i.e. the provision, implementation of the regular programme within the framework of the agreement and the signing of the agreement for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. However, if there were any available capacity, this could be implemented. However, the funds that might have been obtained in this way, I have already said that today's regulation makes this possible, can be used for stimulation. However, the primary mission of public institutions is, of course, the provision of public health services. We will have to strive to be able to ensure optimal business by connecting hospitals, health homes, and the question is, what will we later do with the free capacities? But that, I mean, it's been five, six, seven years since today. The primary concern for compulsory health insurance and the contract for the Institute of Health Insurance will be, and potential spare capacity could also be transferred to work on the market. It is true, however, that there is not much transparency here today, so we should settle this with the law, with the emphasis of scrutiny, which the law also defines, we could demarcate. Primaryly for what public institutions are set up, that is, public health service. Market activity only in free capacities, both infrastructure and personnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will also raise a question of the letter to Minister of Health Dorian Marusic [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Last week, we adopted a 2010 budget rebalancing, for which I already indicated in the debate that it was extremely incomprehensible, harmful and I thought it was against protection, rescue, and against health. It takes a significant share of the funds to firefighters, rescuers, health care, all those institutions that essentially save lives. Thus, the Ministry of Health, as we know, is the second largest source of significant funds, some ten million euros, almost 50 million euros in money has been reduced here, mostly for investments. In the very explanations, although it was awkward for me, probably for the public as well, it was reasoned that these investments were not essentially to be phased out or that the dynamics themselves would not be significantly delayed, but that they would try to complete the investments already started this year as a matter of priority, and everything else would be prolonged in 2011 and also in the continuation. When we study all these plans, all these plans, we see that, in fact, these explanations are unrealistic. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: How can we rightly expect the funds that I have so quickly accumulated, more than €50 million, which are then foreseen for 2011, for the Novo Mesto hospital, for the Trbovlje hospital, then for the emergency centre in Ljubljana and some of these very important institutions, where you point out that this could be built or continued in the following year with these investments, given that this year there is a sharp decline in funds for all of these projects, and given the macroeconomic indicators that they are planning or showing completely realistic, that economic movements will continue to deteriorate in the coming year, which means that we can expect even less money? How, then, can we hope that these resources will be urgently needed to start or continue investments in your department in order to make possible realisation? I don't actually believe this, unless you can tell me where these funds are going to come from right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u144	Dear Mr. Grill! The 2010 balance of the budget reduced the Ministry of Health's investment funds by €39.3 million. In part, this can be explained by possible ambitious investment plans this year, and therefore also by the way you received it, given the dynamics of spending in the first quarter of the year. This year's health investment programme will not be important. It is true, however, that when we negotiate for a rebalancing, we have also somehow committed ourselves to increasing them accordingly in 2011 if we are to maintain the established dynamics of past years. There are currently very intensive negotiations with the Ministry of Finance to ensure that, taking into account the urgency of the continuation of projects, those which have been reduced by the balance sheet this year are provided with an adequate level of budgetary resources for 2011. It is true, however, that the Government has adopted certain cuts in investment, and this also affects the health sector, and that certain projects are likely to be implemented by a delay. You've highlighted two areas. Above all, the area of the emergency centres and here I have to expose the DTS in Ljubljana and the emergency centres that will be set up in the Slovenian space. Let me make it public here that the emergency centres are still a priority, one of the important priorities of the government, and we hope that negotiations at the level of the European Union will be successful, that the European Commission will confirm the change of programmes and that in September these programmes will also be confirmed and placed and maintained in the national project. As evidence, the Ministry provides its share of the funds, as most of these projects will be built with the help of European funds. Financial resources are provided for the implementation of the DTS project in Ljubljana, but we are faced with a number of problems resulting from poorly prepared project documentation, unrealistic investment assessments, ownership issues. At that time, I am also solving certain outstanding problems from the past, such as land rights, construction imports and some other matters that are urgently needed to carry out the project already started. All those projects, which are more or less related to DTS and emergency centres, are under way. I can also expose energy rehabilitation here. That way, I can ensure that this part, which is focused on emergency centres, is of national interest and I also expect a lot of support from Parliament, will be implemented [[..]] According to the Government's priority, resources for 2011 will be set up and I hope that the Ministry of Health will get enough work so that projects can be carried out with appropriate dynamics in 2011. Probably not to the extent that it was set up years ago, but my assessment, at least after the acquisition of the Ministry, is rather unrealistic, is quite inflatable, so this year has not been able to do so, nor will it be possible to achieve this dynamic in the next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We have drawn attention to a sufficiently ambitious plan from your predecessor, who then tried to picture how successful he was in negotiating and providing funds for all these investments, and now we see that they are sometimes unrealistic. However, it is certainly also often tacturing in the sense that certain projects are being delayed, or at least the preparation of project documentation, that this also excuses the fact that there is a reason not to make such investments but, in fact, that there is a lack of money behind it. One of such projects or such a project is certainly a hospital in Novi Grad. I'm a little surprised here that this project is listed below the priority. Whoever knows this hospital, the internal hospital, the situation, which is very severe, difficult for patients and staff, and given that there is also an expected emergency, I think it would be worth, and probably some other, high priority. In particular, given that we have adopted a law to give EUR 400 million to Greece, and here the institutions that are essentially the key to providing health care, the care of Slovenian citizens are moving too far in this way. If I understand you correctly, this emergency or DTS in Ljubljana will be primarily financed this year with the money remaining in the budget fund, which is from the funds under the Law on Investments in Public Health Systems. However, I am afraid that according to the 2011 items, this is indicated in the NRP, but it is precisely those amounts that would be provided from this source, because these amounts are some 10 million euros, I am not sure that these funds will be able to be secured under this law. That's why I think [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] It will be very late, not just in 2012, but in later years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u147	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u148	I have highlighted major problems on the DTS project, which has somehow led to the establishment of the necessary funds in this year and next year. I will argue that this will not be the only priority in the Slovenian space. I would point out, however, that the emergency centre project, the part that the ministry has to provide, we have reserved, the largest part, which is just over 30 million, will be provided from European funds. If the negotiations are concluded in the autumn, I am sure that, on the basis of the projects prepared, we will be able to go into this realization, of course by European means, and this would mean an important improvement in the quality of treatment in the hospital health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u150	That's right, Mr. President. I am also grateful to you, Mr Minister, when you have indicated that they are already in the process of negotiating with the Ministry of Finance or with the Government, how to obtain as much funding as possible for 2011 and beyond, and also the remaining negotiations, so I think it would be particularly helpful for you and also in favour of this particular topic of investment or provision of funds in hospital infrastructure, which will probably only be held in September. It means that this would coincide, and I think it would be useful - I hope that the ruling coalition will support this – where we would highlight all the problems, problems, expectations and then find the best solution for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 13 July 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question asked by Dr. Roku Žarnic, Minister of the Environment, will be put by Jakob Preseknik. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister for Environment and Space Dr. Žarnic! During the last period, a number of domestic and international normative and value documents have been drawn up and adopted with the objectives and orientations of modern space regulation. After the historical use of natural materials and façade colours in various but non-forceable, tones that over the years have gained velvet patina and are pleasant to the eye, even when they are brightly lit, and when various decorative elements and patterns have been added, which have generally highlighted the construction elements and facade openings, modern colours have been used and the possibility of using strong, shiny and intense, saturated colours have been used. That's what I took after Professor Ziva Deu's thoughts or writing. The modern development of built structures is marked by rapid and visible changes. The increase in settlements, new urban patterns and building forms has also been added over the last period, which can also have a negative impact with its intensity on both the landscape's design experience and the well-being of people who are forced to live or move in the vicinity of these buildings. And that's the problem. In Slovenia, we have a normative problem of light pollution, although the problem of colouring of the built environment is partly regulated in municipal spatial documents, but obviously not enough to provide sufficient inspection services or, in the first place, sufficient training for investors, owners and contractors. Let me stress that self-voluntary use of inappropriate colors is certainly limited by the fact that use belongs to the owner, and beauty, especially to the outside, to all the world or to all those who move or move in the vicinity of these settlements or objects. As a result of this fact and the problems that arise, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Are you familiar with the issue of color pollution in the Ministry? What measures and normative solutions do you intend to propose to address this issue properly? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u153	Please, Mr. Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u154	Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Jacob the Presbyterian! First of all, thank you for an extremely interesting and up-to-date question. In response, however, I would like to refresh a little memory of the color of our environment and architecture. The concept of color pollution is a historical relative concept, because different civilizations have different colors. In this historical development, the style of intense and non-intense colours is different. In the current legislation of this, unfortunately, we do not have a definition and it is also the concept of colority and, for example, conditionally or unconditionally, some pollution with intense colors is extremely subjective and subject to individual judgement. The colourability of built objects in history varies from one civilization to another. The ancient trail was much more colorful, temples and buildings, which were white today, were once intense colors, and later this color was faded or removed in various ways. Throughout the centuries, colors faded, and the classical period of the 19th century, as an architectural beauty, emplaced marble ancient white. The medieval city building industry also knew intense colors. Pictures of fresco on city houses and also various other color combinations are known. As a result, after the 19th century, modern architecture legitimized uniformed whiteness and simplicity of shapes and planned forgetfulness of color. So much for history. Today, however, with the Spatial Planning Act of the facades of buildings and other conditions that define and shape the appearance of settlements and landscapes set out in the implementing part of the spatial acts of municipalities, as you yourself have said. The law in Article 3 of the spatial planning objectives stipulates that "intervention into space and spatial arrangements should be planned in such a way as to allow for the preservation of identifiable features of space." Directions from this area are also given in the spatial order of Slovenia. It often happens that the determination of the materials and colors of the objects or their individual parts is left only to a single spatial planner. In practice, building permits shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of spatial acts and, if they do not specify the colour of the facade, roofs, other elements, administrative authority, unfortunately, there is no basis for deciding this outside the provisions of the spatial act. The inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space, not for construction inspection and not for environmental inspection, do not have jurisdiction to control the colours of facades. The conditions laid down by municipal spatial acts shall be supervised by municipal inspections. However, we can add that for investment-maintenance works in buildings, including the construction of facades, the painting of facades and similar works, no building permit is required under the provisions of the Construction Act. Similarly, the construction inspector has no jurisdiction over such parts. We agree that more attention should be given to the issue. In this respect, our ministry has already prepared and carried out several workshops in the past with a professional and other interested public. However, individual content is also trying to be implemented into educational programmes at different levels. More attention will have to be paid to this problem in the future, and the legal framework may also need to be considered. For the time being, there is no legal basis for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u156	Mr. Minister, I thank you for that answer. The truth is, we've been talking about this recently, and the idea of putting the matter at the level of the question. I agree that everything, including the color of the facade, must, after all, be a professionally sound, professionally prepared decision. If we had enough influence on this spatial planners, designers would certainly not be able to meet such solutions that we meet in Slovenia today. So I'm afraid that sometimes the designer or planner is the owner or even worse, the performer of these works himself. That's the problem. Also, what you said was that the reconstruction of the facade does not require a building permit and that is why these disturbing elements come about. Even in the past, if I look at Slovenian reality, they were mainly natural materials. Technology's moving on. The materials are different. However, certain frameworks still need to remain. As it is said, I have also asked this question as an initiative for you, personally and at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, to consider this matter and prepare it, because the answer follows that we do not have it regulated in the country, an appropriate regulation that would solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would suggest that spatial planning also introduce some kind of color studies for certain areas, so that these problems of some extraordinary phenomena may be a little more calmed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Vito Rožej will ask the Member of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, especially Dr. Svetlik! The Social Protection Act has an extended article 18 defines the choice of a family assistant. Article 18(1) of this Law provides that the family assistant shall have the right to partial payment for lost income at the amount of the minimum wage or proportional part of the loss of income in the event of work with a shorter working time than the full one. This amount was aligned with the minimum wage on the first application of the legal provisions, the provision was later deleted by the adoption of the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals, as of 1 January 2007, and has since been aligned with the increase in the price of living needs twice a year, in July and January. The ones you're dealing with, you know that. This was also the reason why the amount of compensation to all those who received the minimum wage or remuneration decision as family assistants before that date was lagging behind. The difference was mainly increased when the minimum wage was raised in 2008 and now last in 2010. Individuals decided on this institute at various times and signed a status decision with the municipalities because the legislation was changing. We currently have three categories of family assistants in Slovenia, roughly speaking, which means that people are paid differently for the same job. Some are paid EUR 734 gross or EUR 574 net in accordance with the decision to perform the work of a family assistant, while others receive a minimum wage of EUR 578 gross or only EUR 453 net, which is below the poverty threshold calculated by the Government itself. However, it should be pointed out that social security contributions to these family assistants are paid in accordance with the rules governing these insurancees, which is the minimum wage. It's about a group of thousands of people, thousands of family helpers who care for people with disabilities with worse problems, and they're connected in society. As we are aware, there are some legal procedures in place in the country that can make the country stand more than it would cost to deal with the problem. Since it is forecast that the coordination of social transfers will be frozen in 2011 and 2012, these differences will continue to exist for a longer period of time and these family assistant benefits should be harmonised even before this freezing measure can be imposed. I ask the Minister, because there is obviously inequality between family assistants: Is such a situation acceptable in the country? Why are you such an existing state of affairs not overturned? When will the anomalies that cause this inequality be eliminated? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! It is true that the family assistants to whom the decision was issued until 31 December 2006 have a different legal address for receiving a partial loss of income payment than those to which the decision was issued after that date. These first ones are in the 89 family helpers group, and the rest are 618. This means that in fact we have two groups of family helpers who are entitled to a different partial payment for lost income in view of the fact that the decision was issued before 1. 1. 2007 or not. While everyone is in the same factual situation, the adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act has not adequately resolved this issue and we agree with the conclusion that this situation is inadequate and unacceptable. How do we deal with this issue? For the first time, I would like to say that we are preparing a law on long-term care and insurance for long-term care that will reorganize this material, which will reclassify the family assistant as a personal assistant with a slightly different status as family assistants now. So then the payment for this activity will also be different. Unfortunately, we will not be able to enforce this law before 2013, as the situation now shows. In the interim period until then, with regard to the amount of partial payment for the loss of income, family assistants will be dealt with in the new Social Protection Activities Act, which is also in preparation and which, hopefully, will enter into force next year. However, we are also not satisfied with this at the Ministry, so we would like to remove the situation by drafting an amendment to the Transfer Coordination Act, which would temporarily regulate this area and equalise both groups of family assistants. Our aim is to amend this law after a reduced procedure and then all family assistants will receive a nominally defined amount at the level of the current minimum wage or 90% of the current minimum wage. Which means that most of the family helpers who have lower incomes today would have picked up that income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Vito Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to see that, as you see for yourself, and that, as with us in the parliamentary group, you agree that in order to deal with this problem, there is actually a need for small legal changes to go through, as you say, after a reduced process. I am therefore interested because for the first time I have heard such a concrete proposal to amend the Transfer Coordination Act, when, perhaps even in months, if you can say, such legislation could change because in the Group of Members we have drawn up legislative changes that we believe would solve the problem in a similar way in the meantime. Although, as you can see, it is only possible to say 89 beneficiaries according to your data in quotations. In the meantime, as I have already mentioned, their social security is paid by the municipalities, full price, I will say, if the contributions from the minimum wage are the full price. However, I do not think that this congregation will be harmed in any way and that they do not have the means to cover this up, since they, on average, also have the ability to choose sufficient resources for these purposes. However, I seriously hope that, given the more than half a year's experience that we have with you in the dialogue and regulation of this area, these things would probably need to change from now on over a shorter period of time in order to be satisfactory for our Group of Members, and in particular for the affected beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Let me say, given the intention to settle this with the amendment of the law after a reduced procedure, this can be arranged in the early autumn months. It is also true that we have so far sought this opportunity elsewhere, especially in these social laws, which are also in the National Assembly, but it has proved to be an inappropriate solution, so that we have then, more than ideally seen, waited for this solution, but I think it will still come quickly and then the satisfaction of the family helpers will be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. France Tsukati will present the question to Minister of Health Dorian Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. All present! Last Friday, the National Assembly confirmed the amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which caused quite a stir in trade unions. Accounting for overtime allowances, such as night and holiday duty, has always been regulated in the collective agreement. Now, however, the government has bypassed the negotiations with the trade unions and has briefly enacted its idea. Therefore, FIDES predicted that doctors would mass consonants for overtime. They're supposed to be deposited at the FIDES and you'll have them on the table soon, Your Honor. At the same time, I do not ask you why the government, as the trade unions say, for the first time in Slovenia alone, completely interrupted social dialogue, so the government decided and we are used to it that nothing can surprise us in this government. I'm asking you something else: What part of public health activities do doctors perform outside of their regular working hours, such as on-calls, on-calls, substitutions and the like? And: How will you ensure the smooth functioning of the uninterrupted emergency medical service when the mass withdrawal of the consent of doctors for overtime goes beyond the legal limit that the employer may impose on the doctor for overtime? This limit is 170 hours per year, an average of 14 hours per month, which is more, can only be imposed on a doctor with his written consent. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u170	Dear Mr. President. Dear Member, Members! Thank you for that question. In particular, since it is focused only on the part that touches the health system and may be particularly difficult to deal with, it is not that difficult, namely, the Health Act specifies that health activities in the Republic of Slovenia must be organised in such a way that emergency medical care, including emergency rescue services, is always provided as soon as possible and as close as possible to their origin and during transport. It is also known what are the provisions of the Medical Services Act, a deontology that obliges doctors to work and offer emergency medical care. Thus, the first assessments that were made do not indicate that emergency medical care or emergency services could be affected. First of all, the question is how the entire service should be organised, i.e. regular work. But if I'm allowed, a slightly wider view, on-call service in the Slovenian space needs to be reorganized. I hope we agree here, we're both doctors, and it was on my list, but it wasn't a priority. Let me just scrub. Every day, every night there are 175 doctors on a secondary level, along with 225 other on-calls, at the primary level of about 80 on-call teams, and in my opinion it is really necessary to reorganise this, especially because there are fewer doctors and nurses in Slovenia and they need to be used significantly more in the framework of a regular program. When faced with the threats of Fides, we conducted certain interviews, asked the performers on a secondary level, and except for five or six of them — so we are talking about administrations with the leaders — should not be disturbed by regular work. Of course, this problem highlighted those 7 or 8 critical operators at the secondary level, which should otherwise be reorganised in the future. These are small or medium-sized hospitals. In the last two weeks, two directors have ensured that they have provided a way of working for the autumn months. In short, I am faced with a new challenge or such a reaction to the withdrawal we did not expect. There is likely to be such a scenario that operators will have to provide 24-hour work. Of course, since their income depends on the health insurance contract, which is linked to regular work, the administrations will have to find some way with the other doctors to do their regular work, perhaps through business contracts. We'll see what's going to happen. Either way, there's gonna be a twist. Today, the on-call service is operated through business contracts, and this may later be established for regular work. In any event, I should provide – and this is a concrete answer to your question – even according to the directors, the emergency services should not be compromised if the operators were to move to a part-time job. It could be a disruption of regular work. The first assessment of hospitals was that if everyone had actually withdrawn this consent, 150 doctors would be missing at the entire secondary level. However, I must point out that in the last two, three years of major reorganisations in this area, it has not been important to involve specialists whose number is growing very rapidly and approaching professionals at secondary level, nor has it been possible to follow some of the guidelines. Here I highlight the professional management of the Clinical Centre, the professional director, the President of the Health Council and even the Professional Council of the Clinical Centre, which encouraged me by the need for a reorganisation of the duty station, the need for standardised duty stations, and the need to establish national duty centres that provide high quality care for citizens. In short, the challenge is great, but I think I have provided a concrete answer to your question and a question of how the regular work will take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u171	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u172	Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, but you always mention emergency services in hospitals because the possibility of reorganization and flexibility are so much greater. I ask, in particular, the cases of smaller health homes. Any healthcare home must provide an emergency service outside the time of the regular infirmary, taking into account the hourly burden it is recognised to this end by 4.2 doctors. In particular, the ambulance work in the tournament takes place, in the morning, in the afternoon, but at night and at the holidays, the on-call service is 4.2 doctors. We have a series of smaller health care homes, which, of course, do not have employed doctors and have to do this work in addition to their regular outpatient work, i.e. in the overtime. In health care homes where less than 10 doctors are working with concessionaires, each of them must do at least half of the doctor’s work in addition to regular outpatient work. Medical homes with less than ten doctors along with concessionaires are quite something. Let me list them: Izola, Illyrian Bistrica, Sevnica, Cerknica, Idrija, Logatec, Kočevje, Ribnica, Hrastnik, Zagorje, Lenart, Ormož, Ljutomer, Metlika and Radlje. Nothing is much better for those health homes that have ten or twenty doctors. These are 20. In addition, colleagues on sick leave, maternity leave, etc. must also be replaced in advance. Mr Minister, in these cases, the Director of the School of Health will spend within two months the annual limit, 170 overtime, with which an individual may be burdened without his or her consent. So what is your plan in these cases? First of all, I mean basic health care, because there's no great flexibility here because of the lack of doctors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u174	With regard to the primary level, the problem may need to be solved from a healthcare home to a health home or from a congregation to a municipality, as you yourself have stated, by significantly increasing the involvement of concessionaires in the on-call service than at a secondary level. So much for responding to this supplement of yours. At the primary level, we have checked in particular the functioning of emergency medical care within the framework of the project we are running, and this project should therefore be implemented. You've exposed some small towns. So here too, we will have to think about bringing together on-call cities in the future. At least two or three of them are in regions where it will be necessary to join forces so that the duty station can be properly organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You want a procedural, procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u176	I have a procedural proposal just because I am not satisfied with an answer. Mr. Minister, when I listed 15 health homes with between 9 and 6 doctors, the concessionaries are included, taking into account and counting that everyone is on duty, that everyone is so young and on duty. In larger health homes we also have a case, such as the Ptuj Health Home has half the retired doctors, because there are no other doctors, even these concessionaries have to work for at least half the doctor only for overtime. At the same time, the end of social dialogue is something that is actually not bad, namely, unilaterally uncoordinated reduction of on-call payments or withdrawal of medical consent introduces elements of market legality. In the case of advanced medical work beyond the legal limit of 170 hours per year, the country will finally find that the cost of medical overtime alone can be lower until doctors who are ready to be on duty are found. Doctors will finally realise that the organisation and provision of uninterrupted emergency medical care is not their task, but is the responsibility of the Minister of Health and those paid by the State. In this regard, we can also expect to see the willingness to work overtime further, especially with doctors who, for example, received a net of 220 euros for 24 hours from Saturday morning to Sunday, for example, as recently described by a doctor from Logatco. There is no detectable response from your response, but we would be aware of the seriousness of the withdrawal of medical consent. Instead of respecting social dialogue when amending the Public Sector Wages Act, the Government will now have to conduct it in practice with each doctor in particular on the principle of supply and demand, which will certainly be much more difficult for the country, especially more expensive. You mentioned land contracts. It's a contractual relationship, I welcome it, but it'll be more expensive for the country. I can't imagine rationalisations in these on-call centres of smaller health homes by shutting down these centers. Are you going to shut down the Fisherman? Then there will be no doctor on duty from Kočev to Ljubljana at night and at holidays. Will you stop, say Cerknica, that there will be no doctor from Bloska Police to Logatco? I doubt that's possible. It's an account without the innkeeper. For this reason, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on your response, because [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Francet Tsukati to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marusic to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 13 July 2010, in the framework of the votes. Otherwise, because this scenario has been mislisted, all these votes will be held on Tuesday, 13 July 2010. Thank you very much. The question to Culture Minister Maja Širca will be asked by Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! The transparency of media ownership is getting worse during the current government and your ministry. Journalists' autonomy and freedom of speech and writing have deteriorated dramatically due to pressure from politicians, owners, administrations and some editors. Also, Minister Golobič, the president of your party, said on Friday that he knew "what is going on and what is going on with bribery in a country where bribery is very disruptive in politics and the media scene". The consequences are visible and horrifying. Independent experts and observers agree that so one-sided, often serviced government situations, especially in print media, have not yet been established in Slovenia alone. That's what the reporters tell us off-the-record. Clearly, it is not the journalists who are responsible for this, but the interest and pressure of politics. Recently, media outlets were shaken by the untransparent purchase of the evening watch by a computer company with four employees. The entire civilian public is convinced that this is a strawed owner. The affected journalists have asked you to declare business null and void under the Media Act. Since there was no trace of reaction, you can see that you agree with this and that this was carefully planned and according to policy instructions. Almost at the same time, the newspaper Dnevnik abolished the right of journalists' assets to a binding opinion when appointing a responsible editor. In this way the voice of journalists is completely silenced, the autonomy of journalists is limited, and journalists themselves are left to the will and pressure of owners and editors. The interest in controlling and influencing the writing of journalists is also seen through some of the last editorial appointments and no names. He is also concerned that it is only now that the summit of the largest journalistic association has come to light, after the press autonomy has been practically cleared up and eliminated, and he has been servile in support of the policy moves that have led to such a state of affairs. Madam Minister, I ask you: Who is the actual buyer or takeover of the Supper? Why don't you take action? Why are you silent or on the part of the owners when limiting journalistic autonomy and marrying freedom of speech in the media? Do they hold the information that all the events I ask you about have been carried out with respect to the behaviour and consensus of the current policy? I also ask about the bribery that your Minister, your President, has been talking about, and specifically, please state cases of bribery. I'm sure he informed you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you. Dear Member! You can ask Minister Gregor Golobič yourself. It's true that we should wait a little longer, but I won't answer in his name, and you'll face him on your own. The question is quite a question, so I'm going to start quickly at the end of the day who's the buyer of the Dinner. The questions may not exactly be addressed to me or I believe that you can have more information than we can, because the ministry received an application to agree to buy dinner, a certain part of the property share of the evening, on Friday afternoon. For a decision on consent or position, it shall have the basis of Article 58 of the Media Act, which shall specify at any time, how and why it may be agreed that, in which cases it is not possible, in which cases it may be given. That's what they say. The evening hasn't been bought yet. You don't have the exact data. The application for consent has just arrived. But I'm saying that you could have more, maybe, information, because, as we know from the media, there's a buyer from the Murska Sobota, whose owner was also a member of the SDS. And I believe you're closer to information than I am, because we're just going to take care of it at the Ministry of appropriate procedures. What about the transparency of ownership at the time of the current government? Very few consents were given, very much transparent, so to speak, when decisions were made when ownership shares, especially in smaller media, were changed for such and different reasons, which are all public and do not work under the table. Nor are they working in a way that was practiced during the previous government and which led to a certain tsunami in the field of journalism, which makes me believe that journalists today are embarrassed by the repeated rise of their profession. Because I believe that journalists are ashamed of the fact that, say, the director of the public media signs a contract with which to provide fabulous discharges, and then so on, when the deadline for its directorship has expired. I believe that journalists are also ashamed of the fact that important public media editors are sticking, I can say, to the trough long after their mandate has expired, and do not care about the 2011-2012 programme, it is said, for the future, for the programming content, but to ensure that certain contracts are properly occupied in stock. And go ahead. I believe that journalists are also ashamed of the fact that, let's say, in the public media, they don't care about autonomy but about the economy. For we know that such praiseworthy advertising shares that have been obtained within the football championship have, to a great extent, exceeded and brought great spoils, but at the same time also violated the legislation for which we know that the relevant procedures have already been initiated, because they were advertising shares over those established and permitted by law. Not to mention the use of covert advertising or the use of minors for advertising or content. In short, because we both believe that journalists are ashamed of such juggling with them, we both know that they will not care how untransparent or transparent those ownership changes will take place in the future because some tycoons have sunk and certain shares need to be changed. I agree with you yourselves if you believe that buying is questionable, that it is not transparent, or that it raises doubts and questions about buying company 3 Lan from Murska Sobota, which has only 44,000 profits for value, which is almost 9 million if we are talking about Dinner. And it makes sense to ask ourselves where and why it is possible that there is a scenario behind which we have also learned from the past. The so-called media experts were once appointed, and today they are experts, which I like to admit to them that the press profession has experts, but not so-called experts, and they have pointed out this fact correctly. I'm aware of it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I believe the press is ashamed of your juggling. For you answered with shame, and did not answer any specific questions. Nothing about the bribery that Mr Minister is talking about, because you are not a resortary minister, the government is not a collective body, they are not crimes to which everyone is obliged to react. Of course, on the basis of what you have been responding to today, it can be seen that you knew everything about the backgrounds of the media in the previous term when you were a Member of Parliament, but today you are not able to answer anything as a referee. So once again, I ask you in concrete terms: Does it hold information that, in the background of the purchase, the Director of Taluma, Mr Toplek, who is at the same time President of the NKBM Supervisory Board, Mr Glazer, Director of Perutina, and some others with a clear political background? If this is the case, it is a repetition of the Scrot script, and of course with the support of the authorities, because they are in such governmental positions. Most experts believe that this is a matter of public and state money laundering and transfer for private purposes. About the bribes. The pigeon knows a lot. You don't want any specific cases and you're protecting Minister Golobic. I'm asking: Is it also true that strong pressure was exerted on editors at the time of Lahovenik’s letter and resignation, in order to overwhelm the Lahove and relativize the Golobic? This has been clearly seen in some editorials, columns, and other newspapers in Youth, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u184	Dear Member Jerovšek! You don't have to be afraid to ask the one who has to give you an answer, say Mr Golobič, no, I'm not his lawyer, so bravely, go to him and ask him. He does not lie and give you the right answers or answers he knows to give. Evening. Who's in the background? As it is said, the role played by the Ministry of Culture came on Friday, Article 58 of the Law is unequivocal and speaks of when the Ministry of Culture must give consent for more than 20% of the ownership or management share or share of voting rights and when it cannot. And I believe that the company that asks for the approval of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with Article 58 of the Law will also tell the public not only the Ministry of Culture with credibility that it is possible not only to buy but also to manage in terms of a good master. And that's a real problem. Whether media owners are always good masters. For example, before Laško bought the newspaper company Delo had a work of 78 thousand, today or after this broke out, there are only 50,000 more items. I am not saying that it is only a poor or unaware master who owns the media and that it is here at work, even in recent times, when the media are thus transformed by electronic media content, a different time. But a good master also means understanding what a medium is. Not only is it more profitable, but it is especially for those who have to take care of autonomy, for the good health of the media space and for as plural a presence of media content as possible. Perhaps in the past it has already been much wasted, perhaps some today, including media professionals, say it would have been better if journalists themselves had part of ownership in their hands, and today some still call for a so-called social contract where the owner could have appeared as a good owner, along with those who make the media, that is to say with journalists, responsible editors, editors and so on. But for the time being, it is necessary to ensure that the master or those owners become not only the owner transparently and that they will not hide behind some potentially connected persons, but will then know properly, properly manage media content and take care of media autonomy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, because you have gone into arrogance and with your answers you undermine, and not only are you beginning the dignity of the journalists, as you mentioned, and the freedom of speech and writing in this country. Madam Minister, I'm not afraid of Mr. Golobic. It seems like you're afraid of him that that Zižko's opinion that this is Slovenian Stalin has worked so hard on you that you didn't hope to ask him which media, who's being bribed, if this is happening in this country. And you, Madam Minister, are the district minister. You must know that! You're supposed to be reacting from Friday! Bribery in the media [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u187	Lord Jerovšek, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u188	This answer was not given by the Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u189	can't answer and please don't argue with her [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u190	Let me get this straight. The Minister did not give this answer. But you should know him and know him, and of course he also does not want to talk transparently about acquisitions in media houses, and you are also making fun here, Madam Minister, from the press, from their calls for action, from your actions, and from your actions and your excuses for some other reasons, and therefore it is imperative that you discuss your so-intounded response and your incomplete response. Because I don't think it's time to make fun of the journalistic shit, the press dignitity, the freedom of speech and the written words to which all international institutions point, and you continue to act ignorantly, and in this mandate, as a resortary minister, you don't want to know anything. However, you are under the previous term of office. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u191	Mr Jerovšek, give your reasons to the Members and Members, for they will vote. Madam Minister will not vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u192	I hope that Members understand and are deeply aware of this problem, which is so strong in this country, that this time those journalists with whom you have had a direct relationship have always raised their voices in this country. [[...]] Unfortunately, your answer was not appropriate, given the seriousness of the problem. The sparrows are chirping that scary and worrying things are happening, but here you're moving around and you don't want to answer any specific questions. It happened the same way last time, and Mr Žarnic was not informed by the President of the Government about what he was talking to Berlusconi, and he is a referee minister. Your President also does not inform you of what is happening with this mass bribery, as Mr Golobič said. That's no problem for you, media bribery. Unfortunately, Members, I hope that they will agree that we have to clear this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Now he's gonna be a magician. Majda Potrat asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The financial crisis was followed by an economic crisis, with a slight delay, and also by a social crisis that has mainly affected the economically weakest groups. Not only do those who move a lot among people notice the pressures among people, but also various surveys and official statistics. Mr Minister, your actions or actions by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs were primarily aimed at overcoming the biggest problems of these groups that have been unemployed. At first, the measures came under great approval. Some other marriage proposals have, however, stopped reaping this approval. It seems as if those of us who once warned about poverty and the urgency of the assessment of when and where the threshold of poverty that you have defined is blackened out, that when Slovenia prospered economically, we were alerted to the phenomenon that has now grown, and we are also warning him with regret because we do not see it end so quickly. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I ask you again, you've justified your work several times in your performances, but I ask you again: What did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs do to protect the weakest and most vulnerable groups? And: Is it possible to attach to those who claim that social rights have been reduced? These two issues are particularly topical now that we are considering two laws that affect social rights and decide on social contributions and payments at this meeting of the National Assembly. Please systematically show us: What has actually been done for those most at risk of social conditions? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member! Let me mention the introduction that our ministry has taken measures and carried out activities in the past year to alleviate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, in the first place and at the beginning. Although it was less visible at the same time, it was also preparing for structural changes, which are now being gradually referred to the National Assembly. I must say that we are often faced with the obvious that individual social rights are being abolished and that the social state is falling apart. That is not the case, we have also seen the material published on the website on 7 June, which presents what has happened and what will be done in the social and employment fields between 2009 and 2011. And from this material we see the movement of resources for individual actions and programmes, in particular the additional funds that we have earmarked precisely to alleviate the social crisis and, of course, to accelerate certain structural changes. In summary, given that the material is more extensive, we have allocated 756 million more resources in the labour market and employment for this period than were allocated in 2008. These measures are intended for students, students, the unemployed, employees and, of course, companies who then protect their employees by maintaining jobs. We estimate that at least 25,000 jobs have been preserved by two intervention laws. We have doubled the funding for an active employment policy, as well as the number of programmes that were included in around 50,000 in the previous year, as well as in this year's programmes, and after the unemployment rate Slovenia is moving somewhere between fourth and sixth places among the best countries of the European Union. Let me mention the Minimum Wages Act, which raises the minimum wage by 25% in relation to the previous minimum wage level, and also the grant law has added some scholarships in the reception process, and there is a law that will significantly increase access to state scholarships for the lowest socio-economic categories. With particular reference to the social field, we are committed to this, for the period 2009-2011, €230 million more than was allocated in 2008. Among others, we have adopted, as is known, the Special Supplement Act for Socially Intended and Despite considerable public financial pressure and the introduction of a programme-oriented budget for 2010 and 2011, our ministry also provided sufficient resources during the crisis to preserve social rights and the level of these rights during this period, such as unemployment benefits, social protection benefits, transfers to individuals, households, such as children's allowances and family benefits. We hope, of course, that we will be able to retain these social rights so that they will not have to be significantly affected in the preparation of a very difficult budget for 2011 and 2012. And let me add that, at the risk of poverty, Slovenia is highly ranked among the countries of the European Union, it is still located in the upper quarter of those countries with the lowest risk. Let me add to this that for families, family policy will be allocated almost 246 million funds during the same period. By summarizing this data, we can say that for the period 2009 to 2011, we only allocate more resources through the activities of our ministry for a billion and a quarter more than they were earmarked for 2008 or in 2010 44% more of these funds are earmarked for these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you very much for that comprehensive answer, Mr. Secretary. At an extraordinary session, we discussed the budget's rebalancing, and it was clear from the opposition benches that it was a bad policy which was tasked to save people's social distress. I can't imagine how else we could get the funds for the transfers you've been talking about, if we know that at the time that we've been depicting ourselves, we've reduced by one third the number of fat cows that are below the poverty threshold because they've just raised the social transfers of these people above the poverty threshold. From these perspectives, the thesis is that the exit from the economic crisis would be effective only if we invested in accelerating economic growth. Where, then, would those who find themselves unemployed and find themselves without means of survival be left behind? I would like to point out that the signals from social work centres are such that they speak, but also from Karitas and from the Red Cross, it is clear that the number of those we need is great, despite the fact that some are also returning to work. Is it just a variety of doctrines, or is it a misunderstanding of pressures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I myself, I must say, have expected similar findings, as it is obvious that the social state does not work, but I think that they are unfounded in relation to this data, because we have not yet abolished any social rights. Then you can understand the criticism, if you have now protected the position of the lowest socio-economic categories, but at the expense of indebtedness. And it must be acknowledged that this is also true that, even at this expense, this public debt has increased. However, because of the pressure of the crisis, because of the shock that has arisen, we have consciously decided to go this way so that we can draw up the structural changes that follow. These may be less popular for the population, in a way more difficult because now it will be necessary to step on our own feet and start with these structural changes to ensure that we can finance our social security with our own income, with our own work, with our own earnings. We are going into a rather difficult period. However, I must say that the decision that we went to the protection of the population, even at the expense of indebtedness and now gradually into structural changes, was conscious, which we thought was important for the population to understand that we are working in this way in the long term in its favour. However, of course, there will also be a redefinition of individual social rights. However, I cannot agree that this is an abolition, but a remodeling that leads to greater social justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Friday, the Minister of Finance is absent, will you still ask the question? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Petan. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President, we've only solved who it is. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking the Minister the following question. At an extraordinary meeting a few days ago, of course without the support of the opposition, the National Assembly uncritically adopted the Law on Assistance to Greece without any special guards to return the funds. Slovenia is expected to contribute, that is to say, given that the law has been passed, Slovenia will contribute EUR 380 million and these funds are not placed in the state budget, so far they have no coverage. In doing so, the Greek public sector operates across all borders of good taste and across borders of normality. Some segments of the public sector in Greece also have sixteen salaries per year. Yeah, 16 pay a year! At the same time, in Slovenia, the public sector is tightening the belt because the government says so, and employees in the public sector are shown in some segments as real criminals. I'll only mention here a case of doctors on call. Doctors on duty are shown as those who destroy virtually the entire Slovenian public finances. This is not true, of course, because it is a few million euro difference. And in Slovenia too, the diatric diet is limited, this will only be visible in autumn, because there will be no €5 million in the Slovenian state budget so that all students can have the same diet as before. The main culprit is, of course, the Greek bankruptcy in public finances and the biggest culprit is Greece's state bonds, which have been issued by Greece for many years. And the whole world knows that, especially the financiers, but so far no one has intervened. This year, however, this bond issued by the Greek State is uncritically cashed. This speculation also included the participation of Slovenian financial institutions, these speculative investments in Greek public finances, and the Greek state bonds account for about € 119 million from Slovenia. We know this information, it is true, because it has been mentioned several times by the Ministry of Finance in Slovenia. I want to know: What are those organisations in Slovenia, banks, insurance companies, funds and others from Slovenia that have helped with these operations of Greek public finances and also in the break of the Greek financial system? What are those organizations of Slovenia that helped bring to their knees not only Greek public finances, but also almost, we can say, even Europe? Now the whole of Europe has to help and now Slovenia will have to contribute 300 million euros, regardless of how fragile we are in Slovenia, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. Would you like me to answer you orally at the next meeting? Yeah, then he'll answer at the next session. Mr. Friday, are you still going to ask a question? Yes, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Zbogar, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I, too, expect an oral response at the next meeting. When we review the financial functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we can find almost abject luxury and waste on individual segments. More than €10 million per year is allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the employment of the Embassy, residences and more than 210 residences of diplomatic officials abroad. That is not all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has a number of participatives or contractual associates. For example, for former Yugoslav diplomats, he devotes quite a few fine fees. For example, retired diplomat Peter Toš received €6,000 553 last year for a project to restore control over diplomatic and consular representations. I'm stressing re-establishment. This is because Mr Toš has already established this system as an employee of the MZZ in 2004 and, as a pensioner, he has received this fee five years later for the same establishment. Let anyone who can understand that. And another case. The second Yugoslav diplomat received a much larger fee, Zvone Dragan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs paid him a fee of 20 000 euros, worth 20,000 euros to be exact, EUR 19 000 908. Mr Dragan took part in a project last year to develop a new model of economic diplomacy. See, on 1 January 2005, 555 workers were employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and on 1 May this year 622 and interestingly, when we adopted the Law on Foreign Affairs this year, Minister Žbogar said that there are 150 employees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have the status of an authorised minister in accordance with the Law on Public Servants. So these 150 employees of the MZZ can become ambassadors tomorrow. These are the people who have the highest salary and also the highest status, and it is interesting whether there is none of these 155 that could have done the work of Mr Toš or Mr Dragan. That is why, of course, I ask the Minister: How many different contracts have now been concluded with external contractors and co-workers? And: What is the amount of these contracts in the first half of this year? What was the amount of these contracts last year? Like I said, I expect an answer in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! In 2003, the Law on the Geometric Centre of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted and subsequently in 2004 on the basis of its Regulation on concessions for the management of the area of the geometric centre of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of these two regulations, adequate financial resources were properly provided in the State budget from 2005 to 2009 to achieve the purpose of the law and to manage the public service tasks of managing the GEOSS area. The first difficulties in financing the public service tasks occurred in 2009, but the Minister for the Environment, Mr Karl Erjavec, was able to provide adequate funds. With the 2010 budget rebalancing, however, I note that the resources allocated to the public administration of the GEOSS area, which has been defined by law as an area of special national and national importance, have been completely abolished. I understand that the Government must save and achieve the set target of rebalancing, but on this modest item, it is less than €40 000, and it is not possible that this objective is threatened. I am sure that these modest resources for the budget, but a huge, very important GEOSS, could also be saved in a different way. That's why I'm asking you: Will you, as a competent minister in 2010, and beyond, provide the necessary and appropriate financial resources for the implementation of the public administration service of the GEOSS area and thus for the management of the law-defined tasks in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u208	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! Dear Mr Guido Kres, I'm afraid with my answer you'll only be partially satisfied, but quite dissatisfied probably not. As has already been said, on 25 March 2010, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a programme of work for the State Geodesic Service for 2010 and 2011. Due to the changed economic situation and in connection with the budget rebalancing, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia had less than €584,000. Nearly EUR 600,000 fell, causing the downsizing of most programmes or all programmes. This also reduces the implementation of the GEOSS concession to EUR 20 000 after the rebalancing. So it's nothing, but it's significantly less than last year. As a result of this, the GEOSS has adapted its 2010 work programme to identify individual priorities and selected among many investment projects those that provide optimal benefits for the monument and the GEOSS area. The third material was also forwarded to the government on 9 July. So, unfortunately, it's a significant reduction, but it's not entirely an abrogation. However, I hope that the 2011 budget will make the matter more rosy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you. Would you like a refill? [[Not]] . Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Culture Majdi Širca a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Dear Member and Members, Mr Minister, Madam Minister! Recently, a proposal for a new status form has been presented to Members at the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia in the National Assembly by the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. RTV Slovenia is expected to become some kind of commercial company, which must also carry out at least 50% of the public interest activity. To this new company, which could have almost 50% of the commercial activity, state assets would have been transferred under the proposal of the law so far. Although the law obliges citizens to pay RTV contributions, Slovenia's new radio broadcasting with our public funds and infrastructure, built with public money, would be financially autonomous. Profits from commercial activities would not necessarily be spent on public service activities, which is why national television should exist at all, and as is the case in the developed world for non-profit organisations, but could be shared by members of the administration, the supervisory board and the RTV Council, and could be shared with others involved in the organisation of this commercial company. The radiotelevision of Slovenia would therefore, by its content, be a profitable organisation from which the assets can also be withdrawn under certain conditions. The new law is intended to give a group of people appointed by policy and civil society the privilege to have a separate and own account with state resources and our mandatory RTV contribution and to be paid a share or total profit, even though the profit is originally created by our public funds. In the debate in the National Assembly, there were objections from some Members who had no objection that they did not know such arrangements in comparable countries. Nor does our legislation know the proposed organisational form. Nor does the introduction of the proposed law present any country in which there would be an organisational form proposed in the proposal for this law. So I ask you to answer: Can you identify those countries where the status of national public broadcasting is the same as proposed in this law for Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u212	Dear Ambassador Juliana Mlakar! The debate in the National Assembly at first reading was rich, comprehensive and instructive, and I doubt that within five minutes I can remove any misunderstandings that remain with you at the proposal of this law. In fact, it is a misunderstanding, because it is an issue of commercial activity in the case of public broadcasting in Slovenia, as proposed by a new or amended law, it is, of course, quite heretical because it is a public service, still in the sense of European radio broadcasting, which we know and have all kinds of special status. But anyway, we're going from the bottom up. You're saying how it is with this status form. By the way, there are examples of different status solutions in foreign countries. Indeed, there is a range of status forms, of course it depends on legal traditions, culture, the economic conditions of individual countries, on the policy of public services in individual countries and, of course, on historical data. But all these forms are facts at work. At the top of these facts is autonomy, there is the provision of public interest and autonomy in various and all radiotelevisions, and then this content, of course, is framed in a suit or form called a status order. And already the current law has a specific sui generis status regime that leads to different laws: the Law on Institutions, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, etc. Well, let's see what it's like in these countries that face different customs, practices and traditions. For example, Britain as the greatest example, the BBC, which we often put before our eyes – it is a special form of corporation, that is, an economic society, not one that is brought up by this sui generis proposal of our solution, because you are essentially all afraid of it. The business company manages the public service and it is a sui generis that even has, and since we know that the BBC here is a model, it has well-organised, within this well-organised public service also its economic activities, the BBC world, for example, and even the largest publisher in England is within the BBC. In Germany, we have public institutions that bring together country televisions, which are organised differently than public institutions in our country, as well as our own assets, as this one will have when it is adopted. For example, France, Italy, Spain and some other countries also have this sui generis regime of a limited economy, in fact, some of which have a special ownership. A particularly interesting regulation in Austria is already the sui generis, where the foundation of public law, which is registered under the law in the register of companies and is considered by the same law to be an economic society within the meaning of the law governing economic society. In short, very different forms are, even we have a society to perform the public service of RTVs, say in Switzerland. In most cases, however, economic societies prevail. Well, this is some arrangement that has been sought with advice from experts and different thinkers of systems also for Slovenia, but obviously Slovenia has not yet been able to deal with it. But I must certainly challenge you absolutely, your understanding of the commercial activity that is supposed to be half-hearted in the provision of public service. But it's not like this, because otherwise we wouldn't have a public service, but RTV Slovenia would also be a commercial, like others, and it won't and it won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your answer. As far as misunderstanding is concerned, I would suggest that you read paragraphs 2 and 5 of the law you have proposed. Everything is written here as far as commercialisation is concerned as well as that 50%. Britain, Austria and some other countries have national TV, but these are non-profit organisations. This is said to be the definition of non-profit, not as in our case. That's why I'm asking you to complete the question. Indeed, we have found from the reply that there is no country where the state would try to pour public funds into private pockets when it comes to national television. That's why I want to know: Who is the author of an experiment on the status form that wants to be enforced by the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia? Indeed, we – citizens and citizens of Slovenia – have committed ourselves to paying RTV Slovenia for its public interest activities. Therefore, the public institution should be non-profitable, meaning that the profit of a public institution from all activities should be used not for the private benefit of the management of institutions or others involved in the organisation of the institution, but rather for the exercise of public activities. Let me remind you that factories have also been privatised by legislation protecting tycoons, so the unpunished property may have been seized. And the proposal to create the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia in a new form is a similar example of a law that would cover the privatisation of public funds and their transfer into private pockets. A similar proposal is put into the parliamentary procedure in the field of health. Your Honor, this concerns me, because this is a model that tries to apply both in health care and in education, in the protection of the elderly and so on. For this reason, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u216	Dear Member, you have already used the identical text at first reading, which means that I will voluntarily contact you, sit down for three hours, read paragraphs 2, 5. And don't experiment with interpretations, because you're passing on wrong and wrong information to the public. Public RTV Slovenia will not be a commercial RTV Slovenia with any law, because it means that we are not only lowering the principles that apply in Europe around public services, but you are also lowering all my efforts from the first day forward to define public interest with the professional and the general public. That is why we have received RTV Slovenia by proposal as a separate legal person of public law with a specific cultural and national significance, and this is it. As far as your understanding is concerned, Your Honor Julian, please take a deep look at the text. The profits, which we have already told you, will happen several times, as we say now – and will certainly be, because the end of the football championship, as I have already said today, has increased advertising by 270%, by the way, over certain quotas, again, so I repeat the fines – as far as they happen, these gains are first ensured to cover the public service, then to pay the employees, only in the end can the supervisory board or the administration and the software world be rewarded with them in certain percentages, and you will see that they will not reach 72 salaries that someone in the public service today as an optimal solution for their departure and for their rich work. And what else? Where RTV Slovenia is a commercial service, if you go to borrow, say a recording of this event, you will now pay, because you have to pay a copy, that is normal and right, because the archive also has its price, that is logical, here is a commercial activity, right and only meaningful. This commercial activity will now be separately managed according to all the standards that we do not know now. Of course, if an RTV symphony orchestra will happen at an event I don't know who is not a public service as defined by the bill, it will also be a commercial activity and it will be noble to buy their instruments, I don't know, but try to make philosophy more realistic and understand this text as it is written, but not as you want to see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u218	I will take this opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure, so that we can also discuss this more broadly at the meeting of the National Assembly, although I must admit that we have now finally heard that it is also a commercial activity, in the first part of the reply, the denial of this in its entirety. I would strongly advise you, Madam Minister, to read articles 2 and 5 of your marriage. If I read, say, the second paragraph of Article 5, you see that the structure of the content of the programmes and services provided by RTV in the framework of the public service lists which programmes must be provided by the public service. And in the following paragraph, the third paragraph, it states that in the event that it does not provide at least 50 % of this programme, which is in the public interest, a procedure for the discharge of members of the administration may also be initiated. Which, of course, means that commercial activities can be almost 50%, but this world is not being resolved. This was not the task of the public institution that we set up and that is why we citizens are willing to pay RTV contributions. So we are paying him for having a public institution which is a non-profit institution that will be aimed at achieving public interest, not for a group to generate profits for itself. And since this trend is a trend, this trend, which is emerging in health and will also occur in other areas of the public sector, is a pressing problem, and I therefore particularly note what is currently happening in the RTV Act and which is already included in the Health Act, where there is also a similar trend in the privatisation of public institutions. People need to know and say that they really want to have commercial public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. On the proposal of Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to her question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes, i.e. Tuesday, 13 July 2010. Mr Milenko Zicherl will now ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the ministers and the ministers! Greetings to rare colleagues as well! I ask myself this question, and I am interested because of the fact that I see no one from the three parliamentary groups, nor did they ask whether someone has declared obstruction or whether Kumer will also take them as seriously as if the opposition had put up obstruction and then interpreted them in different ways. I would certainly expect coalition parties to even ask questions because we know we have an economic crisis and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u221	Mr. Ziherl, you have a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u222	I'll get right to the question. Mr Minister, the highway cross is almost finished, but traffic problems arise in other areas, namely the lack of connecting roads and at the end of the highway then the traffic is blocked because the traffic does not run to other locations. Another serious problem is in the old city’s cores or in some places where there is a narrowing of history in the city, and traffic problems are expected to be solved by bypasses. I'm asking you: How will the budget rebalancing affect? Will any of the intended transport solutions simply delay or even fail? For example, in the suburbs we know a whole lot of problems, either for Blajsko, Škofljica oblasta, Ribnica, Škofja Loka, Gorenja vas. On connecting roads, however, from Gorenjska, where I come from, there is certainly a major problem with Jeprca–The Basket, which is somewhat burdened with the Šentwiska tunnel. In addition to financial problems, there are incomprehensible delays in the field due to the short contacts of local interests reflected in the dispute between the local authority-civil initiative, and when almost everything is just before the beginning of the work, a call will be made if there is no cartel agreement between the operators, then they will complain and also hold back the implementation process. So there's a whole bunch of problems. So I want to know: How is the Ministry preparing to deal with these problems?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you. Thank you for asking. The proposal to rebalance the budget of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads for 2010 amounts to €192 million and is smaller by €49 million than it was adopted for 2010. In view of the fact that the DRSC, when preparing the proposal for the budget rebalancing, had to provide financial resources for the commitments already paid and to provide additional funding for the payment of the commitments undertaken by the public service in line transport, as well as the concession contracts undertaken in the field of regular maintenance, all the weight of the reduced funding actually fell on investment. This set of expenditure also includes the construction of railways and connecting roads, which the DRSC has included in its development programme plan. The financing of the construction of railways and connecting roads has taken into account the actual situation on a project, set priorities for its implementation so that the investment cycle does not stop and, in order to reduce budgetary resources, the implementation dynamics have been changed in a number of projects. The DRSC development programme plan includes 49 projects for the construction of railways. The DRSC will carry out activities, appropriate state and phase on a project, in line with the financial resources provided by the proposal for a rebalancing. In line with the above, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, in preparing the 2010 budget rebalancing proposal, has made it a priority to provide funding on projects that contribute to increased transport safety and mobility, aware that it is very difficult to maintain the state-of-the-state road situation in such situations, given that the DRC manages almost 6,000 kilometres of fast, main and regional roads. However, because of the reduced inflows to the budget and because the budget share obtained by the DRSC is reduced, I do believe that a shift has also been made in the previous mandate and that you have given more resources than before on state roads I am looking for ways in two directions. One is the increased use of European funds, which we are currently earmarking mainly from the Structural Funds for state roads, and we are looking to make it possible to do so from cohesion funds, which is one possible solution. Another possible solution is with public-private partnerships. By working intensively to provide more money for these state roads for the next year, with already announced budget cuts in view of the 2011 adopted. In particular, I have in mind areas that are not directly along the highway crossing, which do not enjoy the comforts and comforts brought by highway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Certainly the Minister has answered some things, but some are still open or he has given a certain idea through his implementation. I would certainly like to stop at one point. In fact, when an invitation to tender is reached and the contractor chosen, it is already almost an iron rule that those who have not been selected should complain. In order to avoid becoming a folklore, whether or not it would indicate a financial instrument, let's say that the complainant has to pay a deposit and then, if it really is found that he has been damaged, I will return to him if he is just making up or somehow forcing himself to become a subcontractor in that contractor who has been chosen, but this money would go into an integral budget or into another matter. This is just one possible idea of how to filter and somehow reduce unfounded complaints. The second point you mentioned, however, is a public-private partnership, perhaps to follow the example of our neighbours, the members of the European Union. From the personal experience of paying the toll, I know that, for example, the road circle around Torin has been made by banks and they have received concessions, they have agreed with the state and it is essentially like some kind of credit, and after the bank has been paid, let's say for 30 years, some risk at the bank, if it has too little traffic, will be at the loss, if there's a lot of traffic, is at the loss of the country. However, the matter is quickly made, financed and, above all, for the pleasure of the drivers. Then, of course, the matter goes to the state and the matter is resolved. Are there any thoughts in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. There are thoughts in this direction, but on highway programs. The problem is that you know that we do not collect tolls on state roads, so it is actually difficult to find a partner who will invest and will ensure its sustainability by paying the toll, so we are looking for other ways. However, interest is always not just a toll payment; sometimes interest is just the fact that someone is building, so it must provide funding which can then be provided in the tranches of the budget. Different options, this is someone in a semi-private public partnership, unless it also becomes toll roads, but it's all open. I agree with you that we need to look for these answers in this way. I really am not an expert in public procurement, but I am almost certain that in this new law this payment for a complaint is and is not so small. I think that's it. But the problem is elsewhere, the problem is that the construction sector is in trouble because of the recession and that is why there are so many complaints because there is so much fighting and competition for business.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The rules on school calendar, which is an internal act of the Ministry of Education and Sport and adopted by the Minister, also govern the field of winter school holidays. This Regulation has recently been amended, which now stipulates that all primary and secondary schools throughout Slovenia have a winter school holiday within the same time limit, according to the same week. Before this change we had winter school holidays divided into two terms, allowing for a more even distribution and use of all Slovenian sports and tourism capacities, which is also the practice in other countries of the European Union. Now the real offer of tourism facilities and at the same time products in Slovenia will be exceeded many times and will create an even greater demand for tourism products during the week than the actual offer that mountain, winter, ski and other sports centres are capable of delivering. As a result, this means greater crowds in ski resorts, hotels, other accommodations, and also on roads. At the same time, this will certainly lead to a steep rise in prices for tourist products, the departure of Slovenians abroad and the decline in a large proportion of children who would be deprived of active winter holidays. The great crowd on the ski slopes and roads will also result in a significantly poorer safety. It is also worrying that such a change represents a major negative financial impact on the tourism economy as well. According to the statistics of the archive of the Association of Slovenian Wi-Fi, only Slovenian mountain centres will suffer income losses of approximately €10 million. The actual revenue shortfall will still be significantly higher, as this amount does not take into account the loss of income due to the smaller remaining offers of guest tourism consumption in these destinations. Since it represents an important part of the Slovenian economy and its revenues, we can rightly expect that the merger of winter school holidays will have significant negative effects on our economy. Given that we have not observed anywhere the presentation of the Ministry of Education and Sport's strong arguments to explain the reasons for bringing these terms together for winter holidays, I ask the distinguished Minister: Has the economic, transport and environmental implications of the amended school calendar regulation been analysed, namely the one-week school holidays? And secondly: What were the reasons for such a decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u232	Dear Member, President, Members, Members of Parliament! The Ministry has not done any analysis of economic damage, which it does not do in any case in the field of school policy. It also means that when we decide what we will do with the textbooks, what we do with the school calendar, however. Other ministries are responsible for this. This is a procedure that lasts 45 days and the rules go into intersectoral coordination and there have been no such comments on this Regulation. That's one thing. Another matter is why we decided to do so. You know that these vacations have been divided into two pieces because school policy has estimated that not all children have access to skis. This was in years when the possibility was not established that parents could take a child out of school at any time for five days and go skiing with him when they wanted to, and where they wanted to go. In addition, at that time the population was about twice as small as today's school, so that these fears that are triggered by cable drivers are, in my opinion, superfluous. But there's got to be something. It will be necessary to learn to adapt to change. Let me describe how this looks – Slovenian attitude towards change. I was at a social event, and my wife wanted me to have a collar up by a shirt, and one of my friends was so upset when we talked for a minute that he fixed it for me, he said, "You got it wrong up." So in such a banal thing, it's impossible to accept any change, let's say, when it comes to a school thing that will be for the benefit of those families, and these are very large, who couldn't go skiing together, or whatever, they have children in school, not in the Ljubljana or Maribor district, but outside, especially those who have one child in high school and go beyond, and of course also those who have parents as teachers working outside their area, the area in which the child is going to school. So, from the point of view of school policy, this measure was, in my opinion, meaningful and good. However, it is certain that cable drivers and all other hotel workers who are ordering will need to adjust, see if they have enough time to see what can be done at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u234	I think the minister was quite cynical about the reasons. I don't think a couple of teachers who have students in other places can be the reason for such a big, radical change, which is established practice in all European countries where winter holidays are shared. It is also very interesting that the approach in such an important case, which affects road safety, skiing and environmental problems, is only a matter of one minister and one policy of the school rules. Last year, this government and certain ministers praised the action Safety on skis, Road Safety and the like. The Ministry of Education and Sport is now adopting a measure which is going in the opposite direction, as declared by the whole Government and two ministers who, last year, on skiing, proved that safety is a priority on the ski slope. With such a measure, which is not justified by any matter, I did not understand the Minister that it is a savings, that it is an advantage, that we are doing the opposite, that we are making security worse, that we are forcing people to go skiing abroad and so on. I am very sorry, I would expect that in such cases, in the Government, certain resources that have a significant impact on such short-term, I would say, changes will only harmonise. Because I have an answer from the Ministry of Economy, I received it today because I addressed this question to several ministers and will quote, "at the Ministry of Economy we agree with the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Mountain Centres that the decision of the Minister of Education and Sport to unify winter school holidays in one week for all of Slovenia is not in favour of Slovenian tourism". We are talking about tourism, we are talking about losses that will therefore increase and also say in this text that the habits of certain beneficiaries of our winter sports seats will change because they will start going abroad. And by doing so, we will also make the competitiveness our ski resorts have worse in the long run. I would therefore like to request your comment on this: Why is there no coordination between the departments because this is an important matter of several departments?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. I have already said that there have been forty-five days in the debate, I should have looked into the date of the Ministry of Economy. Real resources are also able to influence the rules and then make themselves clear. But what you're saying is just an assumption, just like our assessment that this is good for Slovenian education. What we are going to see, I suggest that, however, those who think they will have problems have six months to engrave and that these problems prevent them. Ski safety and safety in transport are still a priority for this government. In my opinion, security will not decrease. Look, 50 thousand people go to Planico for one day, it's a security-critical operation. But I'm sure there are times when there's an accident, but that's why we don't schedule the event for five days. So that every exaggeration is allowed, but in this case I do not think it makes sense, because our people working on the ski slopes are the right ones who run the ski resort, qualified enough to know how to take care of safety and I am sure that there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u238	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will request that the Minister's reply be made to the debate, because I have not heard any valid arguments for change in the Minister's reply. I will also read a request from the Ministry of the Economy in closing, quote, the Minister, or now the former, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, to the Minister of Education and Sport, "I have called on him to reconsider his decisions and suggest that he amend the school calendar as soon as possible by maintaining the current schedule of winter school holidays". I have not heard any arguments in this debate, and I propose that other colleagues and colleagues support this debate, because I must say that, as has been said on the website, we have not found anywhere that this rule has ever been published in this sense that this amendment is forecasting. And more and more as we talk to our colleagues about the tourism economy, it is not clear to anyone why this change has occurred, if such practice is in some way applicable elsewhere in European countries, it is effective. And subjectively assessing whether this will have positive consequences or negative effects, I think the Minister here is putting too much responsibility on his shoulders. Because as soon as there are more accidents on the ski and on the roads during that period, it will fly to the Minister of Education and Sport. And I don't know why he needs to break down some consistent practices in this room at this time, which have proved useful, which bring good pay. Apparently, the minister's not a skier, and he doesn't know what that means, but let's forgive him. But in fact, this split into two weeks of vacations has proved to be a good practice and a shame that the government is dealing with such ones, I would say, unpleasant moves, I also think stupid ones, because they can bring problems. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Daniel Krivec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko Černač will now ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u240	All present, respected Minister of Transport! Slovenia concludes with the construction of the highway cross, which was designed almost 20 years ago. It does not need to be stressed that this programme has been amended several times, supplemented, amended, and it does not need to be stressed that the situation has changed significantly throughout this period. It would therefore be normal for us to have on the table today projects, state spatial plans and everything that is necessary to carry out the other road links necessary, especially for those directions and those environments that have become complementary to the motorway programme at the time of its implementation. If we look at Darsa's annual plan in this area, we can see that some projects are being transferred from copy-paste to the programme from year to year. Many times, neither the commas nor the dots are replaced. The same project, which was already introduced in this programme two, three, four years ago, is also being introduced this year. One such project, which was included in an additional highway programme several years ago, is also a highway connection to Illyrian Bistrica or Jelšan. During all this period, no specific route or specific corridor has yet been established, but only defined or open procedures to allow this project to be placed in space. During the period of the previous government, the last year of the previous government's mandate, the work on this project was intensified, and a special inter-ministerial working group was appointed for this project, including individual mayors, individual MPs from different backgrounds. The coordinator of this group had the task of bringing the procedures for the installation of this route to the premises as soon as possible. Of course, this has not happened, but what is the problem is that procedures have practically stopped in the last year and a half or in the last two years. Something similar is happening on many other projects, but not only because of the lack of some policy direction, a strategy. As a result of this distinguished minister, we ask about the priorities of the financing and implementation of the Slovenian highway programme: What or who sets these priorities? In particular, I am also interested in concrete deadlines and concrete solutions for the financing of a specific motorway section, which I have highlighted in this question in this House, is the highway section to Ilirska Bistrica, an area which will be in a few years' time if an appropriate solution is not found, the other Gornja Radgona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u242	Dear Member, your question is quite different than it was foretold, but I will try to answer it anyway. But I could better prepare myself if I got a question in this form, as you told me, I would have a better answer. First of all, out of my head. There are no deadlines and no funding in the additional motorway programme, only in the basic programme. That's the first thing. It is called Postojna, Divača, Jelšane, the northern part of the third development axis, the missing part of the freeway is not time-bound and financially defined in the additional motorway programme. It's back out of my head, as I recall. Acceptance of the missing part of the freeway is just prior to admission to the government. DNN, the northern part of the 3rd development axis, which is in the additional highway programme, and it is about motorway connections, at least in some part, is in the verification phase of variants. Although it's divided into several sections. In some areas we had to take a step back because it goes from a four-passenger to a two-passenger road that requires smaller radiuses. As a result, it can be better placed in space, and in order to take into account the opinion of local communities in the northern part of the third development axis, we are doing so. For the missing part of Jelšane-Postojna or Divacač, you should take a closer look, but that's where things go. Now, as far as the funds are concerned, the tranches for the following year from the budget are as follows or for comparison can be read from 1995, 1996 onwards. 1995 was 115 million, 1996 was 110 million, 1997: 118, 1998: 142, 1999: 170, 2000: 137, 2001: 129, 2002: 148, 2003: 150, 2004: 98, 2005: 86, 2006: 44, 2007: 29, 2008: 58, 2009: 68. Then we have 2010 117 million, 2010, the balance: 91 million, 2011: 26 million. The existing way of building the highway cross has been exhausted, which means that it is basically the purpose of this section to build with a public-private partnership, that is to say with calls to find concessionaires to build these missing sections, but once they are placed in space, they are not yet. I also think it will be possible to place them faster than we've worked so far. The Minister of Environment and Space has prepared a proposal on the priority placement of state-of-the-art facilities into the space, this law has been passed in the Government, will soon lead to you, in the National Assembly, and will allow, with the optimal use of time, after 24 months of accommodation in the space. Existing projects will be able to continue under the new law, it is said, they will be able to continue, even though they have been initiated under the old law, according to a new law, so that they can be optimized and reduced to space. The next thing we do is change the US. In fact, the US will allow these things, which I am now talking about, to be a new USA. The second thing that we are preparing and will also come to the National Assembly is a new national programme for the construction of motorways, where what is missing now, as you ask me, after the timetables and funding, must be defined because this moment is not actually defined. And the National Assembly has defined the basic programme financially and on time, and there is no additional programme. And we will do this task at the Ministry, bring before you a proposal for a national programme to build highways to the end, what is missing, and then you will decide on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I asked about the financing of the Slovenian highway programme. Normally, as part of funding, it is also necessary to build on the time-frame component, but I do not know on what other basis we can do a financing project for the motorway programme. From what you have said, it is important to understand that the resources for all that should be done are not sufficient, despite the fact that you have also said that the problem is also in procedures, it is said that there is too little effort to put projects into space, and yet the resources are not enough. You're talking about a marriage that comes to the National Assembly that will shorten those hands and that's supposed to solve all these problems like some magic wand. There won't be any. You know that, too. No law can undo this. First, we should review all the sub-legal acts, all the numerous regulations, orders, instructions, interpretations, I do not know what you prescribed in the environment and transport, and first, make a selection of all these, eliminate the number of agreements that block the placement of individual projects in the space, and, on this basis, establish a policy of individual axes, especially when it comes to projects of national importance, as well as for others. Now, in this public-private partnership, you never tell yourself how you imagine it. If it was not possible to obtain public-private funding under the public-private partnership model in those sections that are profitable, how will it be possible to obtain a private partner at a section that is not profitable? I fear that, as this model has been used by Croatia, the country has then had to pay the difference to the economy, which means that this is not the right and the right solution. And one more thing. I've alerted you to your priorities. There's not enough money, there's not enough resources to get the infrastructure fixed. Why do you spend more than €300 million in the new law you are coming to Parliament with – I think about € 168 million – on changing the toll system? Why should some amount of money be earmarked for a project that is not necessary, which is not real and which will be bad for the country and especially for citizens and citizens?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u246	I'm afraid I won't have much time, because it's going quite outside the debate again. First, about the concession. Yeah, with the concession, we imagine building it. There are two options for concession. One of the things you mention is that he drove to a section built by a concessionaire, a private partner, so much so that the investment is covered. But we have a negative concession where the investment is not covered. The state can decide to pay for this missing part. It's nothing special in the world. So, in the world, we have a concession where there is "feasibility", according to the local word, and a concession where there is no "faasibility". This can be calculated in advance. Actually, there are two options. We can also decide not to go to sections where there is no "feasibility", builds with concession, but I repeat, it is not unusual in the world for you to sign a concession for a section of the highway or infrastructure where basically not enough money is raised, as much as the concessionaire needs to cover your part of the risk of building. It's nothing unusual. Therefore, it is only necessary to make calculations, transparently, to determine what the PLDPs are, expected and actual, and then to agree on all of this within the contract. This is essentially the so-called "shadow tolling" or shadow tolling known in the world under a negative concession. That way, I don't see any special problems. So I would say, you know, the problem is actually that this country has built a very large infrastructure in a very short time. Switzerland has been building its motorways since 1960 and they have not completed their highway program in 2010. And another information: in Switzerland it costs a kilometer of highway, and they also have a lot of flat parts, although the mountainous country is 30 million euros, three times more than in the Republic of Slovenia. And they haven't finished the highway program yet. We started it in 1994, and we're actually almost right before the end. So we don't always have to be critical. Still, I think things went well, but the problem is, Dars is already a very indebted society. If we do not want the state guarantees to be cashed out, which is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government and certainly Parliament, such a concept must be ensured for the future construction of the programmes that we still want not to cause the company of Dars to kneel, according to its own words. Therefore, credit tranches are very high in the next period from 2012 to 2020. That is what you were aware of when you made investment programmes possible during your period with great debt. But it's nothing out of the ordinary, it's just gonna reprogram, and I think it can go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u248	I note that, on the basis of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, there is a need to discuss the Minister's response to this question. These responses have somehow shown that the Ministry does not have exactly a clear strategy, how and how to secure funding, and in particular timetables for the construction of a highway programme, both primary and secondary. This response also showed that it weighs among different models where there is no clear picture of what they bring. In this response - and this needs to be discussed - it has also been shown that a law weighing 300 million euros is coming to the National Assembly and that the bulk of this money will be spent on something that this country does not need at the moment, because there is no other country in Europe that is currently doing this electronic tolling system. Slovenia has a system that is relatively fair to users and is particularly friendly to our citizens, and which, after some complications have arisen, also meets the expectations of the European Union. The debate must also be held because it feels that there is nothing going on in some concrete projects. Last April, the distinguished minister was in Illyrian Bistrica, along with his former colleague, Mr Erjavac, who was then Minister of Environment and Space, and journalists were very easy to get this story around the highway to Illyrian Bistrica: the highway in a pat position. At that time, the minister himself stated that it would be necessary, according to the optimal option of about 10 years, for this motorway to begin its work at all. That's unacceptable. Illyrian Bistrica is suffocating more in traffic every day, people coming from that environment to Ljubljana and to Koper are not equal citizens of this country because they have too few highways and also road connections, unfortunately. Above all, the Republic of Croatia can fully enforce the decree it has already adopted, which says it redirects all cargo vehicles over 7.5 tonnes from the Starod border crossing to Jelshane. This means that in Illyrian Bistrica, if this happens, Gornja Radgona will happen, as we witnessed her a few years ago. I think that it is not good to close our eyes before this fact, so it would be good to clear up these issues in this debate; to get concrete answers to the specific questions as soon as possible, to put this concrete route into space and, above all, to break it down into individual stages, because you see that the whole project was not acceptable for one or the other. I think that the first priority and the first phase that should take place as soon as possible would be the exercise of the bypass around Illyrian Bistrica, for which there are already projects for which studies already exist, and I think that this project should be stopped in such a way that this traffic jam that is now taking place in this area should first be defused. For this reason, I propose that this be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member, Mr Cernač, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport, the State Assembly will decide on his question tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 13 July in the framework of the vote. Now he's gonna be a magician. Andreja Richter asked the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, distinguished minister, colleagues! Slovenia is one of the most watery countries in the world, you could say, and Savinja river is from its source to the outflow of the most endangered area in Slovenia. The area has been hit by severe floods over the centuries, and in 1933 the restoration or regulation of this river began. The latest floods of 1990, 1998 and 2007 have again taken seriously the fear of the life of all the people of the river who live and live on the river. I cannot help but ask the Minister for Environment and Space, namely, the Municipality of Celje has already concluded a mutual agreement with the Ministry in 2008 on the regulation of mutual rights and obligations to withdraw the funds of the Cohesion Fund for the financing of a flood security operation in the wider municipality of Celje. Indeed, we are aware that funds are needed and that additional resources need to be made available. The municipality has arranged all the necessary documentation, adopted, not least, all the spatial documentation and, of course, the Ministry of Environment and Space is now at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment and Space to carry out its work. Several individuals, as well as non-governmental organisations and associations of individuals, turn to the municipal authorities in this area of the river basin as well as probably to the Ministry of Environment and Space itself. I am very aware that the flood safety of the affected areas is associated with high costs. We also know that the main means are used mainly to regulate water around our hydroelectric power plant in Krk. However, we cannot now simply forget about the regular maintenance and regulation of the Savinja basin. Certain matters are in delay, certain matters have stalled, we think some individuals. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: What is the strategy of the Ministry of Environment and Space in the near future for the resolution of flood safety in our area of Savinja? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question, honourable Member. In fact, perhaps it is better for the whole matter to answer in terms of what kind of money we have for the problems you listed, and then perhaps more specifically about any matter that you are interested in. There are at least two groups to solve the problem of flood safety. It is said that at the Ministry of Environment and Space at the Directorate for Environment and at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. And then there's investment when there's some European funding. So, somehow, I can say with pleasure that there has been no cuts in funds in the ILO, even up to 200 000 euros being slightly higher, for the purpose of drawing up flood maps. We have heard comments on the Committee on Environment and Space on several occasions that I have always agreed that in the field of Slovenia map making should be arranged so that the municipality does not have additional costs. For the following year, when we planned the funds, I anticipated quite good means for us, together with the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, the ILO and the Water Institute that we have, to undertake the tasks that it then gave to some of the most vulnerable areas in the first year and then to others. At ARSO, however, the rebalancing situation is slightly worse because certain assets have fallen out as regards the water management public service. However, I do not think that this will pose a serious threat to their programme at this time, even though some things will have to be done more rationally. Smaller flood risks are ensured through several measures: one is the withdrawal from flood areas or the implementation of flood-reduction measures by investors, helping to manage the procedures for issuing water opinions and with systemic solutions. ARSO then seeks to provide sufficient and stable resources for the regular maintenance of water infrastructure and the cleaning of streams, including with the assistance of concessionaires; then provides investment funds and increases investment support, together with the Water Fund, quickly responds to the problem of new shifts and provides funds for the construction of investment facilities, restoration of old buildings, in particular barrier buildings, accumulations and the establishment of remote monitoring facilities. I've already said something about flood threat maps. This includes the development of conceptual designs, the regulation of watercourses and awareness and information about hazards – hydrological monitoring. As you can see, we have at least three groups working on water. I believe that this is not an expert problem, and we are quite successful in this work. Like I said, it gets stuck, as you've noticed, sometimes when you need more resources than you can afford. I must say that, for the second year, we are preparing a measure that may be unpopular for some and more popular to answer such questions. We have found that in Slovenia we are quite poor in collecting water contributions, compensations, because we set ourselves very low prices before the time. Today, as we are in the OECD and observe the range of OECD recommended water contributions, we see that we are practically anywhere near the lower limit or far from the middle. For the second year, we are preparing a proposal for the Government to place these refunds on the average of the OECD, which will not be popular on the one hand, and for greater security it will certainly be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Minister, you said you might have some more information. I am pleased that flood map co-financing will begin next year. In fact, the entire area I'm talking about is under flood protection, if I may say so. However, I have read in the newspaper, I am just asking about the call for cohesion funds, that the Municipality of Celje is working and that it will invest a good 5 million in the tender and finance the country in this regard. I want to know: How is the call itself, and how is the State’s share of such funds being drawn? This will be the case with all this documentation, which is prepared, for a certain realization. Indeed, we know that there has been a rebalancing and that certain funds have been deleted, but, as I am aware, some things will still be compensated in the following year or this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We are aware that the great shame of remaining funds coming from the outside is untapped. That is why we have also had many discussions with the Ministry of Finance, that when the projects are ready and mature to draw European funds, the money will also have to be found for the Slovenian part. It is clear, therefore, that the municipalities have something, a few countries, some Europe. For projects that will be prepared and mature and that will meet the conditions, I do not think there should be any problems for realisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will now ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u258	President, thank you for your word. The Honourable Minister and all present! The possibility of building small hydroelectric power plants is still considerable, and it also hinders us, despite difficult processes and listening to the environment. Investors in small hydropower plants have different problems: one is procedures, so to speak, only obtaining these necessary permits and the other is concessions. Despite the fact that the best locations are already occupied, I think that means that there are still locations that are suitable and that more could be done. So I have one question for the Minister: How many concessions for small hydropower plants were granted in 2009 and this year? As regards the award of concessions, I am also interested in: Why are the procedures for obtaining concessions themselves so long? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members! Your Honor! When I came to this place, I asked myself the same question as you were wondering how these concessions were; but when you listen, you read, you find out a lot. Unfortunately, I have found that in 2009 and 2010, the Government did not grant any new concessions for small hydropower plants, because we do not yet have an adopted water management plan. This should be adopted by December 2009. Therefore, now that we do not have a plan, we need to deal with it individually. However, there is another obstacle that can be further exacerbated, namely the Regulation on criteria for determining and how to monitor and report on the ecological acceptability of movement from Official Journal 97/2009. This Regulation laid down in Article 20 that the decision on already submitted initiatives for the acquisition of water rights should be terminated in accordance with the new Regulation. This means that existing applications need to be reviewed and re-established in an environmentally acceptable manner. As far as I understand, I have spoken to my fellow workers, this regulation is the one that has rejected the whole story, which I personally regret. However, the plan, which will be under this new regulation, will determine areas where the granting of new concessions will not be possible, is indeed limited. This will significantly shorten the government's decision-making process as to whether the initiation of a concession procedure will be initiated at all. The adoption of the Water Management Plan is foreseen in the VAT for this December and is currently complemented by the professional basis by meeting the requirements of the Water Directive, which is a European Directive. The plan maker is the Water Institute. I'm counting on him to do his job by autumn. Perhaps even a slightly better explanation and explanation of why the concession procedure for small power plants is so late, which I did not know, but when they taught me – the three laws are those to be taken into account: the Law on Freshwater Fisheries, the Law on Nature Conservation and the Law on Waters. When it comes to the coordination of several laws, and in particular if different ministries are responsible for these coordinations, then matters, unfortunately, are taking a long time. Personally, I will make sure that this matter, this spring snake, is moved as quickly as possible and that those backlogs will be resolved as soon as possible, or at least very clearly answered the proponents, whether they have the option or have no chance as soon as the laws are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you. Thank you, Minister for your answer. I am partly satisfied with this answer, but partly I am not, which I do not think the Minister himself is in what he has said today and in what situation he is in. Given the obligation of 20% of the electricity coverage accepted by Slovenia, very small hydropower plants, with the slow penetration of other renewable energy sources, can achieve this target. Small hydroelectric power plants in the area are as much affected as mills and water saws used to be. It is said that small hydropower plants are an important source of renewable energy to help reduce the effects of the warm shaft. I think we should give more impetus to this in Slovenia and make maximum use of these stocks we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u263	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Maybe it's one thing I didn't mention before. There are also major debates in the global and European professional public. There are advocates of small, big ones somewhere. We've got the little ones. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] However, what is very interesting lately – what you have said, green energy, water energy – are still rather uncertain answers to questions about climate change. You know, the water itself finds its place here, where where the saw used to be is no longer appropriate, because man has reached into the environment. Changes in the natural regimes in the waters are also a problem, so these matters are precisely around the placement and footprint of such an object in a space, in nature, still difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u265	Mr Janez Ribič will ask a question from the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. The Minister is excused to be absent. Still? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In cooperation with five Slovene and two Austrian municipalities, one of the largest and widest regionally established projects of revitalisation of the Drava river, cultural heritage, the development of the nature of friendly tourism and the regional and international integration of life along the river, named Drava connects. The project was registered in 2009 under Objective 3, Slovenia, Austria, but was rejected by the Austrian Commission on the grounds that it was not balanced. For the 2010 callback, the project, this time called Heritage Drava, was balanced, the Austrian municipality of Velivec joined, and all other reported shortcomings were eliminated. In addition, this time the Heritage Drava project was already part of a set of projects of the European Capital of Culture 2012, which would also bring additional points. According to informal reports, the Austrian part of the Commission rejected the project again, despite the fact that the assessors assessed it well. The Austrian municipality would pay 15% of the share that the Austrian Land Government would otherwise have to provide if the project were approved, and the decision to refuse would be even more incomprehensible and controversial. This is more than a disputed decision of the Austrian part of the Commission, which is why I am interested in: How do you view such cases, and what can you do in such cases? This is a mixed committee composed of representatives of the Slovenian Government who would probably react to such or other irregularities in the work of the Commission as a whole. According to our information, the work of this Commission is more than a clear conflict of interest between the President of the Austrian part of the Commission and even some kinds of blackmail and trade in projects. The drafters of the Heritage Drave project have decided to re-register the project at the same time as requiring the revision of all projects approved so far by this Commission and to report to the anti-corruption commission. The Minister may answer my question in writing within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u267	The question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Rok Žarnić, will be asked by Darko Meni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! Despite the amended Law on Spatial Planning, despite the consideration of staff burdens, the reinforcements of certain ministries and despite constant warning, we still have difficulties in preparing municipal spatial plans in the municipalities. I ask the Minister for Environment and Space: What will the Ministry do for timely response in the context of the preparation of guidelines for space regulators, so that the guidelines for space regulators will be issued within the prescribed 30-day period as defined in Articles 47 and 58 of the Spatial Planning Act? When will action finally take place in this area, and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u269	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u270	Your Honor! Thank you for asking. In the making of plans, we ourselves are most aware of the problem that is the contents of your question. This problem has its own history, which we try to sort out and cramp things up. We all know that our ministry is the last one to come up with a plan, but we depend on many other lay-offs and other ministries as well. The problem is in the professional decision and its final phase, which I am talking about. We've warned about this many times. The government is 30. Seven. 2009, therefore, one year ago, it adopted a decision obliging all ministries to act as agents of space regulation to respect the time limits for the provision of guidelines. Of course, things haven't changed magically since then, but it's helped. The deadlines for the submission of guidance shall be reduced in the last year due to a better information system, simplified logistics in the transmission of applications and electronic materials to the common server and also due to better quality of the drafts transmitted. Indeed, we depend heavily on how certain preparers do their work. I must say that many times our employees are burdened with what is not their job, that someone sends a bad product, and then we help fix it, and sometimes these things drag on for a long time. I think we're successfully solving some of these problems. We've also organized a few human resources. But there is another matter that may need to be predicted here. In September, you will receive a new law on the placement of state facilities in Parliament. We will also continue the matter with the new law on local level and we are counting - I cannot say that this law will be ready within a few months, but in what year, year and half it will also be with you and will be a further step towards regulating the situation in this area. It is said that we will also try to help regulate matters in the local area at the legislative level.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u271	Mr. Menich, would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, but I'd like to shed some light on our case. One of the main problems is the failure to comply with statutory deadlines by the space regulators. In particular, we waited ten months at the congregation of Šostanj to obtain guidelines instead of the prescribed one month, after which we had to complete the material after difficult coordination meetings and on its basis to complete the guidelines; we have been waiting for them for two months now, but we have not yet received the answer. Due to the constant exceedance of all prescribed terms, new and new spatial problems are opening up in the congregation, which also need to be addressed through a municipal spatial plan. In the absence of any response from the competent authorities, the procedure for the preparation of municipal spatial plans is in no way running out. It is quite clear that the vast majority of municipalities will not adopt a spatial act within the prescribed time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u273	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I was not prepared to ask this question, but I will certainly ask what is going on with this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u275	Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the question of the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Gjerkescu. The Minister is excused to be absent. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. A few months ago, the President of the Government said that for the development of Slovenia, European resources are the best and almost the only resources. This year's or the last budget rebalancing has provided for the drawdown of billions of euro of European Union funds. And the payment to the European budget of a good EUR 400 million is said to be about 600 million. The report on the promotion of the absorption of cohesion policy funds issued by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development in February also provides a table on the absorption of funds up to 31. 12. 2009 This report shows that Slovenia has absorbed a good 5% of these funds. Since the majority or almost half of the funding from the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure is the most interesting developmental priority for waste management and environmental protection, this is the area of water. This report shows that an assessment of the scope and level of preparedness or reality of project implementation is being prepared on a case-by-case basis. However, this assessment is not yet available, although the report has addressed the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in a number of follow-up, we have not yet received any reply. I am concerned about the willingness of these projects to continue pumping mainly from the development priority of waste management and environmental protection. In April, the Government also prepared an amendment to the operational programmes of cohesion policy, where specific projects are listed. Since the Minister for Environment and Space is here, I would refer to him because he mentioned earlier the law on acquisition of ownership for these projects in the public interest. I'm afraid this is one of the biggest obstacles to the implementation of these projects, especially the municipal infrastructure, because [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Even after a thousand service contracts, these projects will not be ready and the pumping will not be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The present Minister can't give this answer, it's not possible under the rules of procedure. Require a written or oral response? Get up. Mr Samo Bevk will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The question on this subject, on the subject of uniform school holidays in primary schools and even in music schools, has already been raised today by the parliamentary colleague from the opposition Daniel Krivec, and despite the Minister's reply to this question, he would have repeated the question, perhaps further argument. After all, we have the same opinion with our opposition fellow Member on this issue. In fact, as of 5 June, the following day after the publication of the Official Journal, the Regulation amending the School Calendar Rules for Primary Schools, which reads as follows in Article 2: "Winter holidays last one week and start the third Monday in February", entered into force. It is said that there is a change in a fixed regime that has been in force since the early 1990s. They responded mainly to the publication of this Regulation in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in the associations of this Chamber covering this area, they also wrote to us, Members and Members of Parliament, to the President of the Government, Borut Pahor. Only a few negative consequences of this measure have been highlighted, i.e. already after the previous system, the capacity of ski centres, tourist centres in our country has been very well-occupied and tourist workers estimate that this measure could result in an amount of €13 million or even €15 million in economic damage in the area of tourism. This is the information produced by the Directorate of Tourism in the economic sector. In addition, the Economic Chamber also assesses the issue of road traffic safety due to congestion, safety problems on skis due to the high number of skiers and so on. That is why I would suggest to Minister Igor Lukšić that he or she give the following initiative: The Ministry should re-examine this arrangement in order to keep the holidays old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u279	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u280	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! We have decided to do so after the proposal was considered 45 days after the established procedure and this procedure protects all interests. After the rulebook was published, the activities of those who are most affected and who estimate that they will feel the most about the matter, were, as has been said, sent initiatives to all possible addresses. If we get this in time, it's like 45 days, then we could take that into account. Because we didn't get it, we couldn't take that into account. The only comment it was was that the third week in February was not sufficiently clear, so we wrote down as a fellow Member read: the third Monday in February. So the matter is perfectly clear. Now, the school's field is autonomous and makes decisions within itself, which, according to the key actors in the school area, are good. However, since this matter touches on some other matters that we could not take into account within our schoolwork and, as it turns out, the issue is so hot that it unites the National Assembly, we will immediately look at what we can do tomorrow. Here we have problems like our hands, and by 1 September we will have to process this matter, which will be very difficult, but in any case I will do what I can to take into account this interest, which has been so clearly exposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u281	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! I can only thank you for listening to this initiative, and, of course, I hope that we will continue to take a vacation in the old way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u283	Mrs Alenka Jeraj will again ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The Ministry of Education and Sport has prepared a project proposal for a healthy lifestyle for which funds are to be provided from the European Social Fund. I want to know: How is the project for which EUR 5 million is earmarked? Has the invitation been issued, and who will carry it out? According to my information, he's being run by the Planica Sports Agency. Let me remind you that before that, we had the Public Institute for Sport, the Institute for Sport, which was established in 2005, also in order to carry out sports of children and young people, to develop activities in the field of combating doping, professional development, international cooperation and so on. A good year ago, you convinced us and your colleagues that we do not need such an institution. And then we shut it down, along with the Planica Institute, and then we set up a new public sports agency, Planica, which operates in the same places, where you've hired some employees from your ministry – we don't find their names on the website, but we do know how to get rid of some unwanted people, and then you set up something new and you name them or you hire people that you like. Since the establishment of the new institution in June 2009, Jelko Gross or Gabriel Gross, who was appointed director of the Institute of Sport a few days ago. Once again, I'm asking: Will the implementation of this project be a Healthy Lifestyle Public Institute for Sport Planica? And: How's it going? How much money is there for this? Has the invitation to tender been issued in this respect and the choice of the contractor has been made?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u285	Here you go, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u286	Madam Member, Presidents, Members, fellow Ministers! First of all, as regards the preparations for the invitation to tender. In this invitation to tender as is the case with many other strands, coordination is under way, the invitation to tender is expected to be published this Friday, we have a reserved seat in the Official Journal, but this is not yet certain. We have decided to do so because the current situation in the field of sports participation of children, especially during the primary school period, is too large. We estimate that it would be right to involve more children in this sport exercise and that more experts and resources should be allocated. It is also noted that by raising the age of children, the number of children involved and more who fall away through the selection process is lower. These children do not actively spend their free time and increasingly pay attention to unhealthy lifestyles such as computers, alcohol, drugs, etc. Therefore, this measure also seeks to solve indirectly such problems. When we think about how to improve the situation, we have found a solution at national level with this programme involving children at a time dedicated to interesting activities in primary schools. This Health Lifestyle programme is, according to the project, a center for the sports participation of children, which is intended to provide children with the opportunity to learn and learn more about the various sports sectors, while at the same time encouraging them for any of them or just getting to know them. Through you, they would also gain the opportunity to be more active. The programme is intended for children from 1st to 9th grade of primary school and is carried out during the extended stay, immediately after completion of the course – so there is a considerable possibility for inclusion of all – and by 17th hour and also at the leisure school. The programme is designed to provide children with a third, fourth and fifth hours of guided training, it is said, at two mandatory hours. The programme is aimed at developing basic mobility and promoting a healthy lifestyle. And now for the establishment. On this question, why did the government decide to abolish two ministries – sorry, this is not yet – to shut down two institutions and set up one, I have already answered, so I would not repeat it. I think that was a good decision. In fact, one institution was passive, it did not work, it had only a director who in one year failed to employ any man, not only to implement any program, despite discussions, of arrangements to begin with. This year, in the new institution, activities have already started – since he was appointed colleague Gross, director of this new institution, and this institution is functioning – these youth programs for sport are taking place and I am quite pleased. According to the tasks that this institution has in its statute, and also according to the programme adopted by the Government for Sports Activities, this Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia is a suitable place to manage this programme, coordinate and supervise. The invitation to tender is therefore governed by the rules in force here. On 27 May 2010, the Ministry held an information meeting for the Health Lifestyle Programme, where more than 170 participants took part, which also showed that we have the potential that this programme could realise and that we have an interest. So, the invitation to tender, as I said, was to be published in the Official Journal on Friday, 16. Seven. However, the programme should begin to be implemented if everything is as I said here and as we plan it, no later than 1. Ten. 2010
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u287	Would you like an additional answer, Mrs. Jeraeva?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you, again, for your word. I don't have a problem with the program. It is normal to support more active leisure and more active young people. However, you said that this would take place during an interesting activity or extended stay. That's why I'm asking myself: Why doesn't the ministry just make a call, or why doesn't it do it through its sports directorate, which also has a part that covers young people? It's always like that, if you have some other middlemen involved, there's a whole bunch of administrations and a bunch of people who have to work on it. And once again: What did he convince you of exactly? The Planica Sports Institute? Perhaps someone else could have found out if you had not already decided to do so yourself. For you have said that it takes experts, these are usually teachers of exercise, who have some licenses and conditions to lead the matter. And even though Mr Gross once ran the home of Planica, it is said that when he was the director of the Centre for School and School Activities, we should forget that he was among the top five paid in the country in public institutions. At the time, however, he did not do well or perhaps the country had to pay back half a million euro for irregularities that it had previously received on the call for proposals. That's the information I have. You can't hold them, you can fix me if you don't. But given that the Ministry is over the work and activities both in the field of interesting activities and extended stay, you would probably expect to do this task, and you will probably do it better than the institution, which focuses mainly on the planning, renovation, construction and management of public sports facilities in Planica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u289	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you for this addition to the question. This institution was, of course, first established for the coordination, preparation and management of facilities connected to Planico, but also for sport of young people. The Institute for Sport, which worked until 2005, had 30 employees and a lot of these, I don't know the exact numbers, he was involved in sports for young people. This meant sports competitions and so on. The Ministry of Education and Sport has one person in charge of youth sport. Well, he can't possibly do that. When, for example, the previous government reformed this institution, shut it down and established a new one that had never come to life, even though the government had changed the director twice or once, the problem remained. This sport of young people has not come to life. It is right that more people are involved because we have a very large range of needs. To explain what this project is all about. It is 5 million funds, of which 96 % is intended for the contractor, is called sports pedagogues. According to the project, 120 sports pedagogues are expected to be employed in three years gradually, working for half-time, saying 60 full-time jobs. However, only this can be financed from the Social Fund, so that it is not possible to finance wages for people working in the institution. So, the appointed director will therefore have no higher salary or anyone who is employed there. 4% is only about coordinating and directing applications. That's what I think. It's clean. Otherwise, you will be able to have an overview of how the funds are spent. I think that the colleagues who are going to do this are also aware that they will be under scrutiny, not only of us, but of you as well, and we will report it if we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u291	Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will ask the question of the Foreign Minister to Mr Samuel Žbogar. The minister's gone. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! As early as 2 February 1994 and April 1996, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to immediately open negotiations with the Republic of Germany as the successor to the occupying German Reich for the payment of reparations or war damage caused in World War II. Reports of such activities, which should reach the National Assembly within three months, have not yet been seen. There is a fear that there was no necessary activity at the time. In 1995, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia drafted the Law on Victims of War Violence, which also included the right to compensation for material damage, but in this part the article was not adopted in the proceedings. Victims of war violence gained status and some rights under this law, while payment of material damage remained open to this day. On 5 May 2002, the Government ordered the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to define this issue together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Labour shall cooperate with those ministries 2. 6. 2003 produced the appropriate material on which the Government is 19. 6. In 2003, the Commission took the view that the agreement on compensation for material and intangible damage caused by the occupying party in 1941-1945 was not concluded in relation to the Federal Republic of Germany. Therefore, the issue of the payment of material compensation to the victims of World War II remains open and the conclusion remains to be reached by the Interdepartmental Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with war damage issues. This committee has been instructed to examine this issue and propose further measures to the Government. On the same day, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of that time stated that he had been working hard to start these negotiations, but only then had they stopped because of the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into Euro-Atlantic links. Since the Republic of Slovenia has successfully implemented its intention to join NATO and the EU, this obstacle has fallen away. We have never received concrete answers to a number of questions from a number of members of the National Assembly since 2003. Because of the above, I ask: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any information on what activities the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out in the previous mandate on this topic in relation to the Republic of Germany? And: Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the powers of the Government, done anything to close this important issue in this mandate? On this issue, I am aware that all the responsibility lies with the fact that the agreement with the Republic of Germany on this subject has not yet been concluded, in all the governments of the Republic of Slovenia so far, as the possibility of success with remoteness is diminishing over time and we should try in any case. I expect a written answer, of course, given that the Minister is excusedly absent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u293	Ms Renata Brunskole will ask the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnic. There's a minister away.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much. I am asking the question of the two ministers, or I will also be satisfied with the answer of the Minister for Environment and Space, because I think he is somehow the first in line with the timetable for the projects I want to ask. The equivalent and consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia is the goal and desire of these and previous governments. As a basis for this kind of development, it is certainly a quality transport link between all, including peripheral areas in the Republic of Slovenia, and central Slovenia. The motorway cross in the Republic of Slovenia is practically completed, but in the north and south of the country, as well as in some places near central Slovenia, there are still areas that are in some way exempt from quality transport links. It is also appropriate to develop the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship as well as the demographic structure, which shows from year to year that young, educated people do not return to their birthplace when they are on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia. The prerequisite for changing these facts is the installation and construction of development axes in the Republic of Slovenia. I am asking the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Transport about the future plan, the preparation of project documentation on the placement of developmental axes into space and the beginning of the construction of development axes. I am asking both questions mainly because both ministries are closely related to these projects. The project contracting entity is within the Ministry of Transport and the contractor of placing development axes in the premises of the Ministry of Environment and Space. There is a lot of information, often inaccurate, in the public context of the adopted national budget rebalancing. So I ask for an answer: At what stage is the preparation of project documentation and the further construction of development axes in the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u295	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Members! Madam Member, thank you for the question. The Minister of Transport asked me to answer it together, because if I were to answer it separately, it would be five minutes too little, that's a big question. We are very aware of what you said in the introduction, and we agree that road transport is essential for life. Perhaps many times in public the matter is misunderstood, why it takes a long time. The public also expects the law that you will receive in September, which will help a little more rapid placement procedures. But I have to say, there's a lot to be done if the ministries work together. We have regular monthly meetings with our colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, and we are quickly putting an end to the incomprehensible obstacles. These meetings will be joined – or we have already been together with the Ministry of Agriculture, because land is also one of the problems of housing. I hope and hope that these matters will happen more quickly with the new law and with good cooperation. However, some procedure cannot be skipped, it can only be accelerated a little. The purchases of needed land can be one of the problems here, and once we put a route, some facilities into the space, it still takes at least 18 months to start building. It is clear that the current economic situation, as you yourself have mentioned, is not pink, even though we hope that this crisis will not last indefinitely and that some things are also seen and some projects will be easier to plan. With regard to the provision of the necessary financial resources, the third, northern part of the development axis is included in the additional motorway programme and will be implemented in a timely manner, financially defined in the context of amendments and complemented by a resolution on the national highway construction programme. The remaining parts of the third and third development axes and the fourth development axes are included in the resolution on national development projects 2007-2013. To make the matter more clear and concrete, I have a table that I will at least try to read quickly in these two minutes. As far as the third development axis is concerned, the real northern part, the vertical part, the Mežiska Valley, the middle part, the southern part of Maline and the southern part of Maline-Vinica is concerned that the north part, the vertical part, was accepted by the DN from January to March 2012, the Mežiska Valley April – June 2013, the middle part of July – September 2013, the southern part of Novo mesto–Maline July 2012, and the southern part of Malina – Vinica information is still unclear because things are still complicated there, but I hope that this case will be clearer soon. This means that construction could start from 2014 to 2016. The construction time is there — two to three years. It is said that for those roads that will start building in 2014, we can expect to take them in 2017, which is not so far away. Maybe you're interested in this southern part of Raspberry-Vinica. Let me take a look at what they've prepared for me: the DRSC runs public procurement procedures for the production of professional materials. The deadline has not yet been drawn up because the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate for Roads, has not yet concluded contracts with manufacturers. But I hope that these contracts will quickly come to an end this fall and that we can say here, so optimisticly, that somewhere in 2012, we will be able to see this happen at the end of 2012. Well, that's the third development axis. I also have 3A and 4x data, but time [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u297	Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I asked you about the development eight precisely because of this, of course, I am interested in the area where I come from, i.e. in the south-east of Slovenia, i.e. the third development axis, the southern part, but it does not mean that I am not interested in Idrija, Kočevsko, Koroška and so on. That is why I also asked you because, in the context of the financial perspective, we want all those who, as representatives of the people, come from different areas of Slovenia, which are not yet so well connected, we want to speed up these matters in the preparation of the project documentation. With regard to the budget rebalancing, it has been repeatedly pointed out that precisely because of the reduction of funds, without Malina’s problems – or we say Máline – comes from the word mills, Malence – Máline do Metlika and, on the one hand, to Vinica, but that the matter may be stopped because of financial resources. However, as the Director of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and the Minister of Transport argued that nothing would be stopped on time, but because the Development Council for the White Krajina and Kočevsko, chaired by Minister Henrik Gjerkes, and at the last meeting of the Council held in Beli Krajina, Metlika, the President of the Government also stressed that the tunnel under the Gorjanci must be dealt with as a priority and the construction of the third development axis also in the preparation of the documentation. That's why I'm interested: Is there anything done in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u299	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much. If I go in line. Motorway [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The new city to Malin, the production of the professional basis and the partial project is in the final phase; the development of the supplementary draft of the VAT will be completed in October 2010; the acquisition of opinions from the environmental report protection authorities will take place in accordance with the law of 30 days and is a prerequisite for a start-up – we should be catching hands here; and we plan the public decompositions in December 2010. After the public decommissioning has been completed, the process will be under way, so that we are counting on the VAT to be adopted by February 2012. A draft DNP has already been developed for Raspberry to Metlika and the Blackwater South connection. In July, guidelines are being drawn up by the space regulators; the deadline plan is not yet drawn up because the MZP, the Directorate for Roads, which is the contracting authority, has not yet concluded all contracts with the manufacturers. In order to connect from Montenegro to VPDRSC, the procurement process, the production of professional bases, DN, environmental reports, the deadline plan has not yet been drawn up because the Ministry of Transport, the RS Directorate for Roads, do not yet have contracts. So, there's a contract waiting for these two. As I said, I hope that at these coordination meetings with the Ministry of Transport for these matters we will try a little hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u301	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Ivan Grill will ask Mr Minister of Health Dorian Marusic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you again very much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, honourable Presidents and Members and Members of Parliament! Bone marrow transplantation is often the only way to treat the most serious diseases, and it is very difficult, at least known, to get an appropriate donor who would be prepared or have all the qualities that the recipient might receive properly. According to me, there are over ten patients in Slovenia waiting for a suitable donor, and unfortunately we have not yet been able to obtain one or so many suitable samples. On the other hand, according to the data we have, there are almost five thousand donors in Slovenia who have also been prepared through the initiative and in cooperation with the transplant agency to provide samples of their tissue, which could be determined on the basis of the investigations whether it can also be given to any recipient. According to the data available again, the price of one such typification or investigation is around EUR 100-sixty-six, all of which would require a slightly over €s seventy-twenty-thousand. In view of the fact that we have not seen the resources earmarked for this purpose in the 2010 budget rebalancing, given that this is certainly essential in order for this investigation or typification to take place, I am interested in: Is there any way, or will, that these funds can be made possible so that these typifications can also be done? This would not last increase transplantation and also improve the quality of treatment for all those who need it in Slovenia and, of course, abroad, because this is a matter of exchange. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u304	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Members, Members, Comrade Minister. Thank you for that question. A great response from all those who are donors of bleeding stem cells is receiving all praises, thanks, and gifts. In fact, I would have taken a little more time to wipe out the problem entirely; in Slovenia, since 2002, the bone marrow has been transplanted to sixty-seven patients, and the seventy-seven have been provided from abroad. In fact, Slovenia is united in a world register of 14.5 million, with Slovenia contributing about ten thousand five hundred samples. All these initiatives are well-intentioned by many Slovenians, and so we have over two thousand samples. Slovenia provides two thousand samples from the budget through the Institute of Slovenia Transplant and the Institute for Transfusion. How critical or optimal is the number of members required in this or additional samples in the register to ensure optimal access to the bone marrow will be shown by a study carried out for Slovenia in Germany. Of course, in order not to wait for this study and decide whether the number belonging to the two million Slovenians is somewhere between ten and fifteen thousand, we have gathered all the activities and have agreed with the Office for Transfusion that at these two thousand to the end of the year they will carry out another six samples, of course within the available means. So we were very successful in the negotiations. In the next steps, we would wait for the RSK to be transferred to Slovenia on the basis of a study to be carried out in Germany to decide what the optimal number of additional members in this register would be and then to provide the appropriate funds. In doing so, we will have to conduct interviews at the Office for Transfusion, whether the price thus far provided is appropriate when increasing the samples. In fact, the economies of scale will have to be taken into account. The profession says it is questionable, given that we have a wider European space and probably a very comparable typification, how many candidates would actually get through linear increases in samples. As I said, out of the sixty-six patients in Slovenia there were as many as seventy of them, whose donors were from abroad, only nine from Slovenia. In short, I can assure you that the programme is indeed under way through very successful negotiations, so there was no need to provide additional resources. On the basis of a study carried out in Germany and the decision of the RSK for transfusion, when the study is carried out, i.e. in accordance with the expertise, we will provide an appropriate additional number of typifications. This is how I say that there is no backlog in this area and that things are going well. It is true, however, that 12 patients in Slovenia are currently waiting for an appropriate donor. One of them already has a date for this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u305	Mr Guido Kres will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleague, colleague, good-bye! Dear Mr. Secretary. In recent times, I have received several requests from independent entrepreneurs, in which they point to a discriminatory attitude towards independent entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who have met all the normal conditions for retirement and are unable to do so. Because if an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur wants to keep a separate establishment in his own possession, it is considered that men should be 63 years old, for women I think a little less. This is also the case for independent entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who are not employed in their company but who are engaged in activities in the so-called afternoon form. As I have been told by the affected persons, it is true that in such a case the entrepreneur can transfer the business to the successor and then carry on this activity. But it can only be transmitted by means of the possession of this epithelial. And that's where the problem comes in. Property cannot be tolerated just like that; it must be carefully considered before taking such a step. For time and events can, and most often so, change the situation. For these entrepreneurs, this property is also their safety for years in retirement, as it is mainly property in such a case. That's, I can say, their silver. It is said that if an entrepreneur wants to retire and keep the S.p. and ownership, it must work under the current legislation up to 63 years of age. This is a minimum of two years after the conditions reached for other workers employed in Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Why did this happen? What can be changed, and how can this be improved? Of course, if the will is on the government's side to eliminate this discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u307	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor. With regard to your question about the retirement of independent entrepreneurs, I explain that the purpose of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is to enable insurance for various cases, in particular insurance for the case of age and on the basis of insurance, gives the right to a pension. All persons who have fulfilled certain conditions for retirement may retire if they are no longer active. However, for some forms of insurance, the law allows exceptions and, in the meantime, individuals are independent entrepreneurs. For the definition of a self-employed entrepreneur says that he does his own work, i.e. he does his own work. The compulsory insurance of self-employed insured persons shall start on the date of entry into the register of independent entrepreneurs or on the date of issue of the licence to carry out the independent activity and shall be completed by deleting or cancellation. An exception to the above legal obligations is laid down in Article 18, paragraph 18, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides that a self-employed person or farmer is not considered to be the sole or principal profession if he has fulfilled the conditions for obtaining a pension, and 63 years of age, a man or 61 years of age, does not carry out a personal activity at the same time as an employee, because he has at least one employee to carry out that activity — this then applies to a craftsman, an entrepreneur, including a farmer — or he carried out the same activity to the same extent until the right to a pension has been exercised, but he was insured on the basis of a working relationship, such as for afternoon crafts. The current regime is certainly not discriminatory in our view to independent entrepreneurs, since it allows retirement under the same conditions as the other categories of insurers when the conditions are met. It also allows the possibility of continuing to carry out a separate activity while receiving an old pension, but the conditions for such an exemption are somewhat stricter than I have already stated. It is therefore not possible to overlook the fact that a retired person cannot be an insured person at the same time. So these two statuses are off-limits. At the moment when a retired person would have re-entered or been employed and thus fulfilled the conditions for compulsory insurance, this would mean reactivating a person and at the same time re-establishing the right to a pension, to which, of course, everyone has the right and the possibility, as long as such conditions are met. So the expectations of entrepreneurs, craftsmen in this case are slightly too great, because no one in this country can have at the same time more status that is by definition excluded. Of course, they have a choice either for each other or for each other. As I have said, even if I could say, it is a certain positive discrimination of this category, it is said that it is possible to even maintain an activity if someone is employed by this entrepreneur and, of course, then retires, or if he has already been an afternoon craftsman, it can also continue as a pensioner. So here are some advantages that other pensioners don't have. Let me add or add to this that for the pensioners in the future, if we decide to do so, there will also be a possibility of a small part that will not be excluded from pension status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u309	Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. It seems that there are some problems in practice that apparently cannot be properly explained. With this answer, I will go to these people and I hope, indeed, that if there is any confusion, we will resolve this matter as we prepare for new legislation. Because, you know, you hear something like that, something like that, but when you have to fix it, a lot of times there's a problem. I fully understand that and I will talk about it, but for now, thank you for your answer, which I am also pleased with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u311	Mr Andrej Magajna will ask Mrs Majdi Širca's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u312	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! As a political medium, the central media has a major influence on the design of public opinion. It is no wonder, therefore, that the centres of political power have always sought through decision-making bodies to have the greatest possible impact on editorial policy. I'm asking the Minister: What instruments and levers will we have at our disposal, following the new proposed arrangement, against the political acquisition of RTV? In fact, I do not see them alone, except for the declaration clauses, the principles of political independence and impartiality, which unfortunately all the regulations so far mention. A comparison of RTV laws: the transitional law from 1994 to 2005, the law still in force, the so-called Grims Act, and the current proposal for a new law that went through the first reading, I think, preserve the instruments of political influence. From time to time, the influence of political parties on the authorities institutionally in the media is still growing. One aspect of the institutional impact assessment is the relationship between representatives of the National Assembly and the number of members of the Council. According to the proposal for a new law on RTV, representatives of the National Assembly in the Fifteenth Council are calculated at a percentage of 33%. In all three comparative arrangements, the absolute number is equal to five, but according to the ratio between the total number of members of the Council following the proposed new composition is now far-reaching. At the same time, the presentations of the law and public controversy overlook another random matter. In fact, the key instrument of political influence is not that the ruling coalition, however, appoints three of its representatives from five, but that all proposals go through a political filter. But it wasn't always like this. Before the adoption of the now existing so-called Grims Act, we have criticised the system by which all candidates, regardless of which medium they chose, went through the validation of the parliamentary majority. The entities proposed by the organisations, civil society, universities, employees and so on should, in my view, have the autonomous right to designate representatives of their communities. When discussing the number of members and who can propose them all, the way of final confirmation of the proposed candidates remains ignored.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u313	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u314	Dear Member, you yourself have ignored the way in which candidates are politically confirmed. Therefore, I would ask you to take a closer look at at at least that chapter that speaks of the functioning of the key authorities, the right administration, by the way, is a five-member board, it is a collective management of the supervisory board and the programme council, which, by the way, in contrast to what you call the Grimes Act – bears all the responsibility for all political, non-political, or any tasks that have been or have not been carried out in accordance with the law, with its own property responsibility. 15 members, as proposed by the law, are now responsible, for example, if – and we heard about it this afternoon – they are in breach of the key standards, which is why RTV Slovenia is a public service. This is said to be why it is an institution of national cultural importance. If this institution does not submit its own production, the production of part of the independent producers, which is also specified in the second and of which other article, will be "flyed". Did something happen now? What is happening now that RTV Slovenia is legally in violation of the law by failing to publish enough production of independent producers when it has no calls for them? Nothing! There is, say, a difference that has a lot to do with responsibility and not with politics. At the same time, honourable Member, let me explain to you your mistakes in reading a proposal for a draft membership of the Programme Council, as it is made by law. But before that, I say something else, because there is an important difference between the appointment of the world of those parts of the members who are confirmed in the National Assembly and that circle that is confirmed by the current law, including the National Assembly, in that here, the last world under Grims' law, the members have been confirmed by the way of the "plunk of leaves", now these five, by the civil society of the proposed candidates and candidates, will have to present themselves in this house and face the public and also explain where their advantages are, why they have an interest here, how much they are responsible and able to take up a very important position within the administration of RTV Slovenia. You can ask them. You will ask them how political they are, how responsible they are, how professional they are, how well they know the media sphere or the sphere of civil society, how well they know society and how well they can respond to it. If you don't like it, you'll say, "I don't like it because it's not professional enough," and you can say, "I don't like it because it's not mine." Are you going to say that?Oh, my God! When you have the opportunity to face and check the candidate or candidate, you will likely look into his expertise, responsibility and fact that he can look you in the eye, but not hide behind "the leaf". This article, which defines – and here you are wrongly appointing only 5 members – on the proposal of NGOs, which is only one third, and is a severely reduced scope in relation to the proposal that was first held in public debate. However, all other members shall be appointed directly by the authorised organisations defined in that paragraph and listed. But the way we propose to appoint the world is optimal because it provides direct representation in the world of umbrella NGOs. Then, perhaps, if you give me another chance, I can complete the thought by disassemblying the functioning of the world, which, by the way, was one big one, I won't say [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] problems, but challenges for the expert group, as well as for the general public in comparison with the encounters with other such authorities in public broadcasts in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u315	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u316	Thanks for the answer. I'm partially satisfied, partly not. I see we've been talking a few times now, so we don't understand each other. The intention of my implementation was that representatives of civil society and organisations — I don't think those who are representatives of the National Assembly — should actually be called autonomously, as was the case in the 1994-2005 Act. This model seemed the most unpolitical to me so far, even though the opposition at the time reported that the civil society authorities were actually going through politics. Most, even under the current regime, will only determine at the final stage, in the final sequence of Parliament. Parliament, however, knows that this is a parliamentary majority, which is a political forum. The very principles and the very oath of responsibility, even materially, may be realistic when it comes, as you said, to the production of independent content. Here things can be judged objectively. Whether the matter is in accordance with the law or not, when it comes to political action, we will not be able to bring anyone here before a court whether the matter was politically biased or not, we can achieve this through other instruments, other mechanisms. I'm sure there's nothing here that's gonna help.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u317	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u318	I don't know if there's anything that's going to help indemnify the members of the world if they act against the rules of the game and put their purse at risk. But I have stressed that one part of civil society will be represented directly. For example, the National Council for Culture is certainly the highest non-governmental sector to propose to its member. It deals with highly defined and very clear problems in the field of social, cultural and, of course, political life in this respect. As now, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art will continue to appoint directly its representatives, CVNOS – the association of all NGOs. However, those who do not have so-called associations will be invited, through the call to be made by the State Assembly for five cities, to these companies, in accordance with the principles defined: protection and protection of human rights, professional knowledge and knowledge of the media space, communication links and so on, which are declared and clearly defined, unlike those not so far, because they are gathering "everything alive", but we know how they have accumulated themselves in this mailbox. In short, when they contact you, not only will they tell you who they are, but they will also face public opinion and Members and Members of Parliament, they will be at your disposal to test them – simply so. Very high threshold and very critical. Many even said who would go so far as to put their integrity on the pranger because they know what it's like to put their name in the light today, because sometimes it's treated very cruelly. Well, even in the appointment of the Supervisory Board, for example, the Government has only one representative. However, there is also a certain compatibility between the opposition and the position when appointing members. But these are not the only levers to measure some political neutrality, some freedom, some view of autonomy. Many others, from the fact that the contribution, say, under the new law on RTV Slovenia is aligned with the growth of living needs, which means that not every RTV Slovenia leadership will crawl before and trade with the government, whether it rises or not, or perform some of the referendums on the promised matter. There are other levers, but we've already talked about these things today, and I believe there will be more at the second reading of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u319	Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask Mr Minister of Health Dorian Marusic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u320	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member, Your Honor Minister, Your Honor Minister! More than three months have passed since you, Mr Minister, presented yourself as a candidate for Minister of Health to the SD Group and the Committee of the National Health Council. At that time, you promised some amendments to the Health Act and thus obtained sufficient support from the members of the National Assembly for the Council of Ministers. On Thursday, there will be a first review of the contested proposal for a Health Action Act in the National Assembly; a proposal that was literally torn apart by civil society representatives and the professional public in early April at the public hearing of the National Assembly. The former Minister of Health, Miklavčič and the Government, have put the contested law in parliamentary proceedings despite opposition by the public and the profession and without the consent of the social partners. Today, I would like to remind you of your promise to table amendments to the bill to separate public from private health. You have confirmed this promise by not imagining that the player of the Olympics could play for the Slovenians at the same time. It happens that doctors who work in a public health care facility or in a hospital serve with self-sustaining services in their own or foreign private company or in other public institutions. This makes it possible to abuse time in the public service, public funds and patients for more afternoon earnings, and many other anomalies with which public health institutions fail. As you have not yet submitted to the Members any document proposing measures to remedy this anomaly, please, if you can say: How do you plan to separate public from private health care? Can we expect the amendments to the bill to ensure that this mix of public and private health activities will no longer exist? I'm also asking you: In view of the results of the analysis you have carried out, do you intend to table amendments to the proposal for a law that would allow professional supervision, which we know does not work properly in the Medical Chamber, to be transferred to the new agency for a certain period of time? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u321	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u322	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member and Member of Parliament! I am pleased with this question, and we need to clear up immediately whether we are talking about the same document or not. In less than three months, I have prepared 82 pages of material with professional analysis, thesis and guidance, which, of course, we must coordinate with Members in order to write an amendment on this basis. The task is not easy because the law that was prepared is somehow focused on centralisation, in the normative part that will determine how someone will work outside the institution. I'd like to set up a different system where there would actually be a greater membership of the facility where someone is employed. Because you've re-used the comparison with my favorite sport, swimming, basketball. I would like to do so, as in these clubs, where players have individual contracts where they have an obligation to operate for their club, the contract, of course, according to their quality, according to their performance, efficiency and the like, and of course with a competitive clause. That's what I wrote in my directions. We will still have to coordinate, but I am sure that the direction that somehow goes beyond studying European systems, i.e. systems in the European Union, suggests that all employees are needed, I am talking about doctors, nurses, somehow stimulate them to do most of the work within the institutions in which they are employed, within the public network. In short, I swear to the greater autonomy of the performers, and I have also highlighted this in the thesis that I am presenting to the draft law. If this basic direction had been blocked, it could then also be upgraded with an amendment. I just can't imagine running a department where it wouldn't somehow be possible to reorganise the health system, while in some other departments this is possible. I have highlighted this opportunity several times, and I will take this opportunity: one of the important guidelines that the health system needs to implement is the reorganisation of the health system in order to be more effective, more pervasive and able to respond to the challenges. I would like to support the direction towards greater autonomy of operators, where the responsible administration, the empowered middle management and the very responsible boards of the institution or the supervisory board will be able to perform the function that is also intended for them. In fact, we are faced with the challenges of today's time: from the demand to introduce regulations, to the resolution of the duty station, we can also say the problems of payroll, to the agreement to work outside the home institution. After studying and after interviewing a number of experts at home, I believe that it is appropriate to listen to this direction and perhaps after in-depth analyses, elaborates will allow some institutions in Slovenia to be left to autonomy. With regard to control, I have highlighted and insist that control in the Slovenian healthcare system is not satisfactory. However, I think that when something is removed and something new is put in place, it is not the best thing to do, so I also propose in the amendments that the current supervision be maintained, and some other controls are added so that, in general, to the guidelines of the law in Parliament, it would only add regular supervision of healthcare professionals, that is, doctors, nurses, carried out by the responsible chamber. It is individual control of an individual, not of a department, not of a unit, not of a hospital, but of an individual, and it is then integrated into a system of advancement, licensing and others. In short, I plead that control in the Slovenian healthcare system should be extended, that it may also be placed in the JAKVO, which I personally advocate and support, but I have highlighted. After international experience, it takes a certain time for this agency to take over all the tasks defined in the law, and I am adding some new ones to the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u323	Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u324	I'd like to ask for a more detailed explanation of the plans. In fact, we have received 82 pages of material in the coalition, but without the solutions that I am asking you about today or by maintaining the current state of affairs, both when it comes to mixing public and private, and when it comes to professional supervision. In fact, a competitive clause that remains the same as today, which is not enshrined in the law, would mean that any director of the healthcare home can assess whether or not he will use a competitive clause, which is the situation we already have today. And this current situation is not solved by this state of affairs. We know that leaders, directors have even their own esperies; in short, interference with public and private interest is allowed, which always ends in the interests of public interest and in the interests of private interest, but, of course, to the detriment of users of health services. As far as supervision is concerned, the current measures are not appropriate, there is a conflict of interest in the Medical Chamber, which in some way controls itself, by knowing, of course, that there is a conflict of interest because the Medical Chamber is set up to protect the interests of doctors. Control is not working, but your analysis has shown that professional supervision, including in other countries, is largely not in the hands of the medical chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u325	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u326	Your Honor, we probably won't get close to each other today. Again: I think I actually stuck to the agreement and prepared the thesis. If these were accepted, then this will be upgraded with amendments. Let's go in one order. The last time I talked about it, it was exposed that a competitive clause was not placed in the system, that it was in another law, that it was not in this law, but that you agreed not to solve the problem. Again, as far as this autonomous office has – I am back to the basketball club. I can't imagine the president of the Olympics basketball club allowing his player to play for another club, and therefore I'm rooting for finally putting a competitive clause into law. Of course, you must have responsible leadership and you must also have a world of institutions that will oversee it. As far as supervision is concerned, I reiterate that the analysis has shown that the medical clinics are placed in a particular disciplinary procedure, but I am only saying that – not only the Medical Chamber and all others – should carry out this regular control in the licensing process, which should be given to all those involved in a particular chamber, that this is a certain licensing procedure. This does not mean that existing controls are good, and I am also saying that other controls need to be carried out and installed. Last but not least, in the short term, good three months, I have already ordered the supervision of the Ljubljana School of Health, which solves and puts in place the possibility of solving problems in the healthcare system, where the Minister can be given greater control, professional – administrative, where he actually resolves, finds and later gives the possibility of solving problems in the organization, in the professional work and in the business.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I hereby end this agenda item, which will be continued tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Dear colleague, thank you so much for staying with us until the end. Good night.
