ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished ministers and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Miro Friday, mag. Franz Žnidaršič, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Jože Tanko after 5 p.m., Aloise Posedel and Mag. Branko Grimes. I welcome all those present once again. We're moving to five. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE ROAD TRANSPORT SAFETY LAW, A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members with first-signed Janez Rybič. With regard to this proposal, the Transport Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President of the Committee. [[He's not here.]] Dr. Verlich will explain his position on behalf of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The chairman of the committee asked me to file a report because he was detained, and he probably failed to inform you. The Committee on Transport held a second reading at its 11th regular meeting on 1 June 2010 of the proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Safety Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Janez Ribič on 24 March 2010. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to the drafters of the law. In the introductory presentation, the bill's proposer, Mr Janez Ribič, presented the reasons for the adoption of a bill relating to the opposite direction of the highway, one of the most dangerous infringements of road traffic rules. It is likely that it is already a direct and not merely a hypothetical threat to other road users at the time of the one-off event. The proposal for an opposite-road driving law, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction, provides for an increase of the fine from 300 euros to 1200 euros and an 18-point sentence, which in practice means a withdrawal of the driving licence. Statistics also speak in support of such a solution. On 26 April 2010, the government delivered an opinion on a proposal for a law that concluded that it did not support the bill, otherwise it did not oppose the content of the proposed solution, but considered that, given the nature of the transport and safety problem, it was not possible to resolve it in part because it required a systemic approach. With the aim of this systemic approach, the Government will also set up a Public Transport Safety Agency. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly states that it has no substantive comments. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the intention of the bill after the increase of the sentence and the increase in the number of penalty points for the offence committed in the opposite direction on the road, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction, but they felt that the systemic approach proposed by the Government was more justified, especially because this new law will also ensure this. The bill-maker and members of the opposition party committee felt that the adoption of the bill would in no way impede the broader system-wide infringement announced by the Government would only accelerate the validity of the proposed decisions. At the end of the debate, however, the view prevailed that it was a prudent issue of road safety to regulate systematically. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, after a discussion on the proposal for a law, the committee, with eight votes and three votes against, has adopted the following decision: a proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the law to Mr Janez Ribič for an introductory presentation of the views on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u4	Good afternoon, Your Honorable Minister! Let me point out immediately in the introduction that it led us to the proposal for a law of desire to save at least some life that is threatened by rampage on the roads and driving in the wrong direction. The reasons for the Slovenian People's Party's adoption of this law are these: that driving in the opposite direction along the highway is certainly one of the most dangerous infringements of road traffic regulations, which is highly likely, with almost 100% certainty already at a single event, to cause a direct and not only hypothetical threat to other road users. As a result of such a high level of risk to road users, in addition to the increase in the fine, an expression of such a number of penalty points, which unconditionally means the withdrawal of a driver’s licence, is necessary. Of course, professional services should also study other measures to physically prevent driving in the opposite direction. At the moment, in the procedure, the Government's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act is a law which, despite some public forecasts by government representatives, does not even address the problems mentioned. However, the amendment of the law, which according to the Government's forecast is intended to deal more adequately with the problem, is not foreseen until the end of 2010. Our proposal for an opposite-road driving law, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction, foresees an increase in the fine from 300 euros to 1200 euros and an 18-point sentence, which in practice means the withdrawal of a driver's licence. The opposite direction is now subject to a change and supplementation of the 2008 law, a fine of 300 euros, and the number of penalty points has risen from only 4 to 5, which is strongly insufficient. We believe that, in cases of driving in the opposite direction, there is such a serious breach of road traffic rules that sanctions are strictly necessary and therefore such legislation must be adopted as soon as possible. Statistics also speak in support of such a solution, which shows that the number of such violations from year to year is increasing dramatically. The additional argument for such a solution is also shown in the fact that, in the event of such a breach, it is not only a hypothetical threat to road safety, but that the safety of road transport and the lives of stakeholders is at risk with every single breach of this rule. According to the statistics of the General Police Administration on the irregular side and direction of driving on the highway, the number of victims due to the opposite direction every year is higher and strongly too high. Last year, there were eight deaths due to this kind of driving. I'm sure you'll agree with us that one of the victims is already too much for that. Therefore, we can argue that the regulation of punishment is still inappropriate in these cases. Higher and stricter penalties are better prevention, of course also measures of experts in planning and design to physically prevent driving in the opposite direction. That's why I urge you to uphold the law. We have found on the home labour body that, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment of the law has been amended. It is also the Government's view that the proposal is substantively appropriate and is not non-systematic. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that these are very dangerous offences and very dangerous drivers, so it is essential that we resolve this problem, even though I am a member of the opposition, but this is a serious matter. During the process, I realized that my initiative has fallen to fertile ground and the Government is already preparing its proposal, which I consider to be a success, as I have also managed to move this area into resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the Government's position on the proposal of the parent working body, the Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government believes that such problems that the proposal seeks to resolve with a partial proposal are not going to be solved in an integrated manner, and we have also done so, as we are now sending four regulations from the existing Road Safety Act to inter-resortmental coordination and to the Government in July, which will re-establish this area. The very different penalty or enforcement measures, in particular in such a narrow segment, have small or short-term or even no effects. In fact, traffic accidents caused by driving in the opposite direction are, fortunately, relatively rare, usually have very severe consequences, but the reasons for such behavior are usually such that punishment alone cannot prevent them. Suicides, adrenaline, gambling causes, alcohol and others can lead to such driving, and the very height of the punishment will not necessarily or will not, in principle, affect to prevent such driving. As the government, we look with sympathy at the proposal and we have come up with similar solutions, apparently. In fact, we have come up with similar solutions, but we are proposing ourselves in the same way as in this proposal with the first-signed John Ribič mentioned the Institute by suspending the expiry of the driver's licence, since the Institute assumes that the driver who committed the offence of driving in the opposite direction, where the sanctions of 18 penalty points and, of course, the termination of the driver's licence, will be able to retain this licence under the conditions for carrying out the medical examination and exercise of safe driving or the health check and rehabilitation programme. At the same time, certain measures have been taken to prevent the opposite direction of travel, supplemented signalling, including vertical – approximately 100 traffic signs, and this year horizontal. The Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the other partners, also made a film with content on the opposite direction driving. We believe that, despite the fact that the proposal is going in the right direction, it must be part of a comprehensive solution. The government is preparing this – we can expect it to be decided by the National Assembly in one modern and comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Matjaž Han on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u8	Dear Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr. Zajc, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of this law, I don't think there's room for demagogism, but it's a place to really talk about the problem. We have before us a law on changing road safety – a reduced procedure. At first, I have to say that the law has only two articles. We believe that the law tabled by the Members of the People's Party is well-intentioned and can also be for the benefit of citizens and citizens, but the Group of Social Democrats believes that the law that the applicant has tabled does not solve the problem systematically, but in a very partial way. We know that by tightening the penalty, we do not achieve the key effect that is, however, the most important, that is road safety. As I said earlier, the law has only two articles. The main article is that of increasing the amount of driving penalty in the opposite direction along the road, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction. Even if we drastically increase the penalties, and here I agree that there can be up to 50,000 fines, with this, unfortunately, we will not save any lives because we have individuals who will not be stopped by the punishment itself in the most insane acts. We therefore feel that the matter must be resolved in a systematic manner. As the Ministry of Transport has said, however, as the Minister has said, he is preparing a package of five laws: four laws on road safety and one law, a law on offences, which will completely redefine and define the offences. At the very meeting of the Transport Committee of the National Assembly, the representatives of the Ministry assured us, and this also leads us to be in government procedure by the end of the year, all this legislation that will systematically address transport security. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the law proposed by Mr Ribič is not true and we will not support it at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! Traffic safety is certainly one of the areas in which we must not seek in the political space of division into coalition and opposition, but we must seek good solutions and legislate such proposals that will save human lives on our roads, settlements and cities. We are therefore sorry that the coalition parties have not adopted our proposal to bring great hopes to the Assembly of the Agency for Transport Safety, which has been enacted by the new Road Transport Act and in which the Ministry of Transport and the Minister are investing. We regret that, at that time, this proposal, which would call members of the National Assembly to the Assembly of the Agency for Transport Safety, on the proposal of the parliamentary groups of all parliamentary parties in the National Assembly. Then, of course, we could still believe the words of my forerunner, a colleague from Social Democracy, that we are not going here to seek demagogy. There, unfortunately, you objected to the fact that the appointments were under the authority of the government. Well, unfortunately, you have eaten your consistency quite soon after establishing another agency for capital investments in the management of the Republic of Slovenia, where you have appointed not only the powers to appoint members of the Board of Agencies, but the National Assembly will also appoint the Administration of the Agency in addition to the Council. But that's where it's about dividing state property, and here it's only about human life in traffic. Money has an obvious advantage over life. The proposed solution to the amendment of the Road Safety Act makes sense to us. With the release of traffic, highways have taken over part of the road load, which has previously taken place because of the toll stations and unnecessary waiting in front of them and the avoidance of toll payments, took place on the side and parallel roads, thereby making people at risk in cities and settlements. Only vineyards brought a favourable reduction in traffic on the side and an increase in the number of vehicles on the motorways. Which is nothing wrong and it is also right, because motorways are mainly intended for traffic. Unfortunately, this increase in vehicles is also due to an increase in the number of drivers who take the highway in the opposite direction of driving. Therefore, it seems to us that such drivers should be punished more severely. We support the proposed solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and at this point we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Potočnik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u12	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Mr Ribič, the first-signed colleague, put the amendment to the Road Safety Act into the parliamentary procedure. The content of the amendment relates to the opposite direction of the motorway, which is one of the most dangerous infringements of the rules of road rules. Its consequences can be more than devastating for innocent participants, their relatives, and not least for the cause. There are more reasons for such unreasonable participation on Slovenian roads, but they certainly go beyond today's debate on the content of the law. We are therefore talking about a high level of danger, as such driving, as the proponent says, is certainly causing a direct and not merely hypothetical risk to all other road users at a single event. As a result of the level of risk posed by road users, in addition to the increase in the fine, it is also necessary to state the number of penalty points which unconditionally means the withdrawal of the driver’s driver’s licence. As explained by the applicant, the proposal for an opposite-road traffic law, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction, provides for an increase of the fine from 300 euros to 1200 euros and 18 penalty points, which in practice means a withdrawal of the driving licence. In the Group of Members, indeed, we agree with the imposition of sanctions, but we do not agree with this partial solution, even if we recognize the urgent need. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the other ministries, are already preparing content and are practically in the final phase and will constitute a thorough change in road safety legislation. The existing road safety law will provide substantive compensation and upgrade the new four laws: the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act, the Motor Vehicles Act and the Public Road Act. This is a systemic approach to change in a way that will better delimit different categories and then combine with the establishment of a Public Transport Safety Agency. This is a body that will combine the financial, human resources and other resources available to different ministries today and will also increase the scope and quality of the participation of universities and NGOs in key transport security processes. The new Road Traffic Rules Act, which lays down traffic rules for road traffic participation and powers and sanctions, contains a provision that builds on the existing system. It is the introduction of a new institute, a conditional suspension of the execution of the expiry of the driving licence. This assumes that the driver who committed the offence will be able to keep the driver's driving licence on condition that he will carry out a health check and a safe driving exercise as a result of driving in the opposite direction along the road, which has two or more marked lanes to drive in one direction. In the Group of Members, we also support professionally updated content, which is directly related to the problem of driving in the opposite direction. The introduction of new rehabilitation programmes, medical examinations with appropriate individual counselling and health checks is extremely important. It is therefore not exclusively about sanctions, it is also about education, education and, finally, about the possibility of rehabilitating each individual, which we hope will improve the existing situation on Slovenian roads. It will be a long journey, but we believe that the government has taken a step in the right direction. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will really support the decision of the parent working body in the hope that the Government will put the aforementioned laws on transport legislation into Parliament as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we are aware that it is a single pebble in the mosaic to take care of increasing safety in traffic. He's not solving it. We're aware he's not solving the whole problem. When our first-signed colleague introduced this law, we discussed it and we were aware of it, but we are also sure that it is one of the few measures, but not the whole measure that would prevent the opposite of driving on the highways. I am also aware of what Mr Minister said earlier, that the reasons for driving in the wrong direction are very different. I think at least most of them need to be eliminated. I am sure that no action will ever prevent all those attempts to drive in the wrong direction, but most certainly and with criminal policy and other measures, so I propose, or in the parliamentary group, that we support this law or that we will oppose the proposal of the labour force. For the first time, because marriage is possible quickly, and at least in this part it is also possible to bring it to life and to reduce this problem. Secondly, because at a time when it will take place, the government is predicting a systemic solution to several laws, so that it is possible to save a certain life at that time. Despite the fact that what I said earlier, I agree that it is mainly with certain necessary technical measures, which are also relatively inconsistent abroad and, in some cases, already tested, that it is possible to reduce the possibility of imports into the motorway in the opposite direction by changing traffic management in imports and exports, with physical barriers and so on. And of course, what the profession does not forget, but in the public is often forgotten, especially the care for education and education of us drivers. I mentioned two reasons earlier. The third reason is that the adoption of this law in no way impedes or prevents the Government from continuing with these systemic proposals. The reason is that the statistics clearly show – now I do not know what this number was for a registered journey in the wrong direction last year, the number is huge. But worst of all, you had eight lives last year. As it is said, it is only a stone in this mosaic that foresees a substantial increase in punishment. Surely, such a punishment would prejudice some and the number of such accidents would be reduced. As I said in the introduction, in the parliamentary group, we will support this bill or we will not support the decision of the parent working body. On the basis of the debate so far, I anticipate that this proposal will not be adopted, but at least, and this is positive, this proposal will, in my view, provide a greater incentive to intensify improvements in the previously mentioned management of physical and other traffic, including with measures for drivers themselves or with training and education, as I mentioned earlier, for us drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic Safety. In the DeSUS Group, we understand the intention of the applicants, and at the same time we believe that the idea of the novel is not bad. However, it is unfortunately a partial solution that proposes to address only one problem in a complex sphere such as road safety. Therefore, we will not support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Driving in the wrong direction is a problem that needs to be tackled by a systematic approach. There are many reasons for driving on the wrong side of the road. This can be the cause of irresistibleness, fatigue, disease, alcoholism, and in recent times even gamblers — those who drive in the wrong direction — and even suicides. In this place, we could list a number of reasons for such dangerous work. It is precisely because of the systemic approach to road safety that we have established the Public Transport Safety Agency, with the latest amendment of the same law, in which, in addition to knowledge and experience, financial, human and other resources available to different ministries today. Key innovations related to the public agency include the fact that the functioning of the public agency will also increase the scope and quality of the participation of universities and NGOs in key transport and security processes. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the other ministries, are also preparing a thorough amendment of road safety legislation. The existing road safety law will provide substantive compensation and upgrade the new four laws already put forward by the Government for inter-departmental coordination. The Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules, which lays down traffic rules for road traffic participation and the powers and sanctions conferred on it by the competent authorities, reads, in Article 18, paragraph 31, the text already contained in Article 10, paragraph 40, which is exactly the same as the proposal to amend Article 26, paragraph 10, of the Road Traffic Act, proposed by the group of Members with Janez Ribič, the first-signed. That provision, which provides for a foreign sanction of 18 penalty points, resulting in the termination of the driving licence, has been upgraded by the working group with a new institution, the conditional suspension of the expiry of the driving licence. The new institute foresees that the driver who has committed a misdemeanour of driving in the opposite direction on a road with two or more lanes marked for one-way driving will be able to keep the driver's licence under conditions for carrying out a health check and a safe driving exercise. In addition, the new regulations will professionally update some of the content that is directly related to the problem of driving in the opposite direction, mentioning in particular new rehabilitation programmes, medical examinations with advice to a personal physician, control-medical checks and alternative use of "alcolock" for alcoholic drivers. With regard to transport technical measures to prevent such driving, or certain measures to prevent the misdirection of the journey have been carried out by the police, DRSC and Darsa, all imports, exports and connections to petrol services and rest areas on motorways have been reviewed. Additional vertical traffic signalling, a circus of 100 traffic signs, was placed in places where this is necessary. By the beginning of this year's tourist season, horizontal transport signalling will also be restored and additionally installed. So, as has already been said, we will not support this bill in the DeSUS Group of Members, but if the proposer has accelerated the preparation of the government law, much has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u18	Dear Mr Vice President, Minister! The proposed amendment to the Road Safety Act is undoubtedly aimed at increasing road safety and thus reducing the number of increasing deaths on Slovenian roads and especially on motorways. In order to achieve that objective, the Slovenian National Party's Group absolutely supports the increase in the prescribed fines for traffic offences as well as the increase in the sentences imposed. The proposal for an opposite-road driving law, which has two or more marked lanes, provides for increased fines from EUR 300 to EUR 1200, and for an 18-point sentence, which in practice means the withdrawal of a driver's licence. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed regime is intermediate, necessary and proportionate in view of the danger posed by the opposite direction. This claim is further substantiated by the comparative and legal arrangements in other countries. In the Netherlands, the law provides for driving in the wrong direction on the highway with a fine of at least EUR 640, the withdrawal of a driver's license and the possibility of a prison sentence. In Austria, even a fine of EUR 2 000 180, immediate withdrawal of the driver's license and from 1 to 3 years in prison. So far, the reverse traffic arrangements on the road, which has two or more lanes marked, have proved to be ineffective. The annual increase in the number of accidents and fatalities calls for immediate action. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will support and vote against the proposed decision that the proposal for a law on road safety is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will set up the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister for Transport with Fellows, Minister for Environment and Space, Honourable Fellow Members, fellow Members! At the beginning of the presentation of our position on the proposed amendment of the law, I would like to return two months ago when we also supported the establishment of the Public Transport Safety Agency in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In our opinion, the Agency will facilitate the rational integration and integration of road safety works and tasks and the organisation and implementation of new tasks in the area of independent investigation of the factors for the occurrence of the worst traffic accidents, road infrastructure safety assessments and research analysis. While we supported the establishment of the Agency in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it is mainly because of the fact that its operation will also bring a higher degree of independence of the profession from the state authorities and from its authorised organisations, which is the solution they know in the transport of the most secure Member States of the European Union. For many times professional views have been pushed aside. The system is too often recklessly affected by daily policy, mainly due to daily policy objectives. The proposed novelty of the law is, unfortunately, one of such attempts, although perhaps well-intentioned. However, this does not change the fact that one of the problems of traffic safety, namely driving in the opposite direction along a road that has two or more lanes to drive in one direction, solves the expression in a partial and inconsistent way. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the Government that we cannot solve these and similar transport safety issues in any way primarily with penalties and other enforcement measures that have interesting effects, but above all short-term effects. In addition to the already mentioned establishment of the Public Transport Agency in the LDS, we expect much from a thorough change in road safety legislation that is already taking place. Four new laws that will substantively replace and upgrade the existing road safety law are already eagerly expected in the legislative treatment. In doing so, we welcome the announced solution whereby a side penalty of 18 penalty points, resulting in the termination of the driving licence, will be upgraded by conditional suspension of the validity of the driving licence, of course under certain conditions. We also welcome the announced new institutes, which will be introduced by the new legislation and will also be part of measures to tackle the causes of driving in the opposite direction along highways and fast roads, namely new rehabilitation programmes, mandatory medical examinations with counselling and health checks. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are satisfied with the success of the implementation of transport technical measures to prevent such driving. Despite the Government's claim that the measures are being implemented successfully, we are convinced that the competent authorities are still awaiting considerable work in the implementation of the transport technical measures. Above all, we expect more competent transport technical experts to be involved in the implementation of these measures than to date. And if I finally return to the law under consideration, we will not support it in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for that reason. To address the problem of driving in the opposite direction along a highway or a fast road requires a broader and more comprehensive approach, which will be taken by the near-implementation of the existing road safety law with the new four laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, no later than 10 p.m. and 40 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on the Triglav National Park within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u22	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia. According to its long history, it is one of the oldest national parks in Europe. Activities to change and modernise the law now governed by the Triglav National Park have been taking place for almost 15 years. Currently, the law on the Triglav National Park of 1981, which is not in line with the current and legal order in Slovenia, is in force and therefore needs to be updated. Since the National Park was already established by the Triglav National Park Act in 1981, the proposed law is based on its content to continue the protection of the Triglav National Park area. In the past, several draft laws on the Triglav National Park have already been prepared, and two have also been discussed in the National Assembly, but none have been adopted. The current bill on Triglav National Park has been drafted by the Government on the basis of an in-depth debate. She used all her past experiences to design it. The solutions proposed are the result of the joint work of the special expert commission, in which the general public participated, both professional and civil. From a public presentation led by the National Assembly as the founder of the National Park, there is almost a unanimous message that we urgently need a new law. In addition, the applicant's assessment confirmed that the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act was still a professionally acceptable compromise between the protection requirements for conservation of nature in the national park and the requirements of municipalities and local peoples for permitted sustainable development. The proposal for a law on Triglav National Park is prepared to ensure the progressive achievement of the objectives of IUCN, Category II, for national parks: to provide legal and systematic solutions for the efficient operation and management of the park, including monitoring and sanctioning, to ensure the possibility of sustainable development of local and local communities in a park consistent with the objectives of the park, to establish conditions for the protection of cultural heritage and landscape diversity in the park, as well as for the protection of all other values of the national park, to create opportunities for public participation in the management of the park, and to ensure sufficient financing of the park in terms of developmental needs and protection and requirements and synergies. The National Park is secured as a whole and is comparable to the International Classification for the IUCN National Park, Category II, and the objectives are also comparable, in order to achieve the management objectives of the National Park category. The basic starting point for achieving the national park category in Triglav National Park is to reverse the actual state of nature and to prevent the deterioration of the situation by ensuring that the prescribed measures and mechanisms, in accordance with the programme, set management plans and given options and leverage the progressive, comprehensive achievement of the objectives of the national park category. As a result, a gradual way of achieving these objectives is envisaged, taking into account sustainable development in the national park. The bill is prepared taking into account the decisions of the statutory law, nature conservation and nature conservation law. The bill places great emphasis on enabling the development potential of the population, applying to other parks the solutions already verified so that the content of sustainable development in the national park is defined by establishing development guidelines. During the financial consequences of the adoption of the law, the Government indicated such funds as are necessary for the human resources and material strengthening of the national park manager in order to be able to carry out all the tasks entrusted to it by law, as well as the necessary financial resources to carry out the development and natural security tasks in Triglav Park. And let me conclude by telling you that I am proud to have this time today to thank all the preparers and all those who have patiently helped to conclude today's successful story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Brady Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all present. A special greeting to the Minister and his associates and co-workers! At its 19th regular meeting on 2 June this year, the Committee on the Environment and Space held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 11 December last year. In accordance with Articles 55, 57 and 58 of the Law on Nature Conservation, the draft law was publicly presented in the municipalities of Bled, Bohinj, Jesenice, Kranjska Gora, Bovec, Kobarid, Tolmin and Gora from 10 February to 12 April this year. The National Assembly was obliged, as the founder of the park, to inform the public of the content of the act before the adoption of the insurance act and to collect opinions and comments on the law. The presentation was prepared by the Committee on Environment and Space in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. During the period until 12 April, a series of comments were drawn up with expert opinions and a series of proposals for amendments and additions to the text. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and Space of the Ministry of Culture, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection, the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park, the municipalities of Tolmin, Kobarid, Bohinj, Bled, Gore, Jesenice and Kranjska Gora, the Mountain Union of Slovenia, the Hunting Union of Slovenia, the coalition of NGOs for the conservation of the Triglav National Park, the civil initiative Soča, Lepne and the Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting in early June. After the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, Mr Mag. In the debate, members of the Committee, representatives of the State Council and representatives of the municipalities supported the proposal for legislation and solutions offered by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as they considered the proposal to be an acceptable compromise between the active protection of nature, the provision of protection of cultural heritage and the preservation of quality landscapes and the simultaneous facilitation and promotion of sustainable development of the local population. They felt that the adoption of the law was urgently needed, since the law in force on Triglav National Park was now passed in 1981 and that it would survive most of its provisions. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Environment and Space held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and adopted 53 of its amendments. I'm not gonna count them because there's too many. The most important, however, are certainly or most interesting amendments to the annexes. I'll talk about it later. The amendments were tabled and later withdrawn by letter on 31 May 2010 from the Social Democrats' Group, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS Club. It is important to say that the Committee, with amendments to the annexes adopted, approved the proposal of the inhabitants of Kneška Level and included them in the third area of the park on the Sočko side. Thus, it already shows that the measures included in the law that enable the development of the population are recognized as real and acceptable in humans and that it has also been the wish of the workers of the Soča population to be included in the third area of the Triglav National Park. After the adoption and implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, all stakeholders in and outside the park, as well as our Members and Members, have a demanding and responsible work to do. Carefully and consistently, we will have to monitor the implementation of the objectives of the law and verify the performance of the tasks of all of us. We must be aware that we must give our descendants the park in a better condition than we have taken it. Happy Triglav National Park!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Daniel Krivec, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister with his team. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a new law on Triglav National Park ahead of us. Most people will agree with me if I finally say so. Because the drafting of this law has been going on somewhere since 2000, in fact, soon after the adoption of the law, there has been a development of the knowledge that the existing law with its legal regulations will not be effective or that it poses a major obstacle to the implementation of the legislation and that the Triglav National Park Institute does not have the appropriate tools to effectively carry out the tasks entrusted to it by law. In all this interim period, there have been several attempts to draft a law. You will all remember the so-called Law of the Wolf, which was somewhere the beginning of all this calvary, until today, when, in my opinion and in the opinion of our group on the bench, we can never say that it is excellent, every law takes some time to enter. Most legislation depends on officials and, above all, on the Ministry which proposes this law. So that at the outset I appeal primarily to the trainees and those who have participated in the drafting of this law, that they will also be active in the implementation of the provisions which this law in some way brings about. Of course the Triglav National Park for Slovenia is important, it is the only national park we have. However, in this park, it is necessary to clearly define both tasks that the institution must carry out, both naturally and very importantly, as well as developmentally. We know that in this area there are quite a lot of valleys and settlements that have been emptied in some way over the past period, and I think that it is also the task of the park to maintain in some way the population and the inhabitants of these areas. I am therefore pleased that one part of the area in Tolminsk has also been included in the opportunity offered by the park and has somehow joined this area. In fact, the previous law does not allow for the possibility of the Office of the Triglav National Park to be involved in effective development assistance to this area, which is in some way incorporated in this law, and this is, in my opinion, the greatest acquisition, since the other nature-protection tasks are in some way similar to the previous law, which is also right. The law must be preserved in some way, but it must be realized that the Triglav National Park remained because there were people in it who kept it, and even before we wrote legislation, there was a park. I wish that the park would truly meet the expectations that all of us who have participated in this process can personally say that I have been involved in the drafting of this legislation for more than 8 years, and I am pleased that we have also come through public debates to a law allowing for adoption in this National Assembly. And I believe that this will be a reception with a large majority. As I said, implementation will depend heavily on officials who will receive this law for operational use. It is not to be forgotten that most of the laws we adopt, which are bound to nature and to insurance, are somehow born when it comes into the hands of those who have to enforce the law. We have the same case with Natura, we have a problem with the Water Act and we could list it. I appeal to the Ministry, to the Minister, to try to influence the future, particularly this so-called official work, in order to become creative in implementing these laws and not just copyists of certain provisions, because the computer can do so, not people who are employed and have some higher education. I think that this law is also a very good tool for the Institute of Triglav National Park, which now has the opportunity to actively engage in the management of nature protection tasks as well as those development tasks prescribed by the law. In our parliamentary group, as we say, we will support the law. But I'll talk about certain amendments later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u28	Your Honor! Allow me to recall some historical facts that speak in favour of the proposal we have today in the debate. In 2010, the international community declared the world year of biodiversity. And it is to the preserved biodiversity that we Slovenians are rightly proud of, because our place is home to many species. This has been observed since 1908 by Slovenian naturalist, seismologist, Albin Belar, the founder of nature protection, and that initiative to establish a natural park over Komarča. In 1924, the Slovenian Museum Society and the Slovenian Mountain Society achieved the establishment of an Alpine protection park in the Seven Lakes Valley. This extraordinary heritage, however, especially binds us. The original proposal has raised a number of concerns, questions and comments in both the professional and the general public. There have also been strong opposition to some of the proposed solutions related to the setting of borders and areas within the national park borders and the protection regimes. This proposal has seen an extremely broad public debate on the importance of the National Park and the requirement for the urgent provision of this status in the future. In view of the strong public response to the solutions in the proposed law, the Government or the competent ministry, in relation to a number of nature-protection institutions, has drawn up professional solutions that, in our opinion, can ensure the position and functioning of the national park, the purpose of protecting the national interests of nature and international standards, as well as the criteria of park protection. Since it will also be an important regulation concerning the future of our single national park and the intention to take into account professional solutions, as well as ensuring the living and working conditions of the local population, we believe that, together with the Government or the competent ministry, we have ensured that the proposal of the law, for the first time, takes into account international conventions, the criteria for national parks, the internal legal order and allows the TNP to be compared to comparable parks in Europe; secondly, it establishes and establishes an appropriate distinction between the protection areas of the park; thirdly, it establishes clear and unequivocally certain protection regimes that ensure adequate protection of the protected area; fourthly, it lays down the legal basis for restricting motor traffic in the area of the park, which is essential for the protection of the protected area against excessive burdens and noise; fifthly, it establishes the development guidelines that provide adequate protection of the protected area of the protected area of the park; fourthly designed to ensure that the proper development of the public, taking into account the principle of the responsibility of sustainable development of all States; and providing for the conditions of the rules of the six; fifthly governed by the principle of the rules of the principle of the principle of the principle of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the rules of the policy; and the rules on which govern the development; and of which govern the policy; The Emissary Group will really support the law. It will also support the two amendments it has signed to the updated proposal for the Triglav National Park Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are pleased that the proposal for a law on Triglav National Park is finally here in such a form that it is somehow agreed with by the local population and profession. Some comments are made by individual naturalists and representatives of agrarian communities who want more opportunities to develop fusion mountains and others. We are confident that a public presentation has been obtained, and we hope that it will later take into account the opinion of those who are connected to the Triglav National Park. We are aware that it is difficult to find the right balance between the protection of nature and the needs of the inhabitants. Finally, it is also necessary to ensure that legal solutions do not hinder the development of local communities, of course, while at the same time caring for nature. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we advocate a co-ordinated management of living and non-living nature, natural goods and national heritage in space. We believe that we can be justifiably proud of the beauty of Slovenia and therefore support sonar agriculture, forestry and fisheries. In our view, the protected areas need to be aligned with European guidelines. Areas that are environmentally sensitive should also be protected in particular. The Triglav National Park Act, which has been emerging for a very long time, is expected, in addition to adapting to the new situation, to bring about the modernisation and upgrading of legal solutions and the establishment of control and protection regimes that will at the same time protect natural values and preserve biodiversity. As I have already mentioned, we have been particularly careful to see whether the proposal provides or allows development opportunities, development aid and sustainable development for people living in the park, and to enable park visitors to enjoy natural and cultural values, of course at the same time taking care of living and non-living nature in the park. We are confident that the bill combines suitable and viable marriage solutions that will ensure a proper balance between the needs of the inhabitants and the environment of the Triglav National Park and its living animals and plants. We will therefore support this long-standing and compromise proposal of the law on the Triglav National Park in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, although I do not see him here now, my respectable colleague and colleagues! And yet it's spinning. It's a hard day to expect. People who have lived in the Triglav National Park for many years, we really wanted that day. Since 1981, when the law on Triglav National Park was passed, we have often felt like second - class people in this country. The fact that we really wanted to do this is also evident today’s visit to a number of the cursed and upright Bohinj people who live in the Triglav National Park, which is why I welcome you. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the new law on Triglav National Park. In our country, especially the people of Triglav National Park, we were looking forward to the new law on Triglav National Park. Each with his own expectations, fears, and, of course, interests as to what the novelty will bring. Some would like to step in with the development of tourism, others would like to preserve untouched nature and so on. We need to be aware that any text we have in front of us would be harmful, lacking, and quality, professional, and similar. It is impossible to draw up such a text of the law that is in line with all interested groups. However, it is essential that we align such an extensive and very important law with all interested parties, whether natural protection organisations, the local population, the professional and lay public or the competent services. There is already a public presentation of the bill on the Triglav National Park, as well as a two-month public discussion of the content of the bill led by the National Assembly as the founder of the protected area and in which the proposed solutions were re-examined to the public. At the same time, all interests, public, private, state, local, professional and laity, could be confronted. We consider the proposal for a law in the DeSUS Group as an acceptable compromise between professional, natural and local development needs and taking into account the principles of sustainable development. We estimate that this proposal also preserves the initial purpose of the Law on the Triglav National Park, namely the preservation of exceptional natural and cultural values, nature in all its distinctive qualities. The conservation and development of cultural landscapes, ensuring, with natural data and values, that agriculture and forestry continue to develop further, as well as development and material and other working conditions for the lives and work of the population in the central part of the Julian Alps, and allowing for the enjoyment of natural and cultural values and recreation in nature. Since the existing law has been in force since 1981, the protection and management of the Triglav National Park must be regulated so that the National Park will be an area where the active protection of nature will primarily preserve all the natural quality of the area. At the same time, it must ensure the protection of cultural heritage and maintain a quality landscape while at the same time enabling and promoting the sustainable development of the local population. I repeat, the sustainable development of the local population. It must also make it possible to visit and experience the quality of this area. The National Park is also an area of exceptional quality of landscape, which needs to be given special attention and given that the landscape in Slovenia does not have systemic protection, it is appropriate to take action. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the new bill is development-oriented and therefore we hope that it will help to ensure that residents remain on domestic land. We are convinced that there is no better keeper of nature and environment than a person whose quality of life depends on the quality of these. This law will, according to our assessment of the people, enable us to live a normal life, develop and preserve the heritage of our ancestors. In the DeSUS Group, we are strongly protesting against attempts by one of the political coalition parties in order to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u33	Mr. Urh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u34	taken [[...]] [[...]] Thank you very much. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! I was warned that it would suggest that the law should include the correct designation, "national" or "national". In Slovenian, however, it means a national park, a human park, a entertainment center, or a circus, which we probably do not want. The Triglav National Park is one of the best preserved highland areas in Slovenia. I believe we all know why we are sensitive to this beautiful nature, which is one of the oldest and most beautiful national parks in Europe. He maintained himself in all his beauty of the century, even thanks to the living people there, who always had a friendly relationship with nature and a sense of coexistence with nature. However, since this kind of nature is becoming less and less greedy of those who see only their own interest in this sensitive area, it is necessary to write down a law that will prevent lobbying and the possibility of the law being played for the interests of individuals who see their own interest and earnings. The Triglav Park was secured by the 1981 law, which did not correspond, since it was such a law that it allowed skilled and influential people to realize the interests of individuals. Everyone was constantly aware that the law needed to be amended, but it was awaiting the adoption of a system law on nature conservation, which was adopted in 1999. Two years later, the law was amended with minor substantive corrections, but no major renovations were made. It prevented only interference with nature, and it was so loose that it did not prevent black constructions, since regulations could be circumvented and individual objectives achieved. The hope that the law will be adopted by 2004 has not been realized. Even later, when efforts were made by Members to adopt a law with corrections, he did not receive a green light, but was rejected in the National Assembly. As we can see, all the policy options from 2000 to 2008, which were in government, were trying to bring the law into force until adoption, but none of them have been able to do so to date. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope and believe that such an amendment law will now be passed for the benefit of all stakeholders involved in the drafting of the law. The law is certainly not good for everyone, it is in some ways a compromise law that will provide conditions for life and the right to develop there for the living people, as provided by the Constitution of Citizens in Slovenia. I believe that the law with the content that follows the objective is acceptable to those who live in that space. At least as I said in the introduction, it is those who watch over the events in nature and are also the best guarantee that in the environment in which they live there will not be an irregularity. The law was formed for a very long time, many experts from the municipality, the population, NGOs, naturalists, etc. participated in the debate. Surely the law is not ideal, but life, which is very important, is still acceptable to the inhabitants in this environment. It provides legal certainty. All of this convinces us in the Slovenian National Party that the law has experienced appropriate changes that convince us that we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will be the representative of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister of the Environment with the team! Dear colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for the Triglav National Park Act is probably one of the few legislative proposals in Slovenia alone, which has endured such a wide, public and professional debate. In the long-standing process of its adoption, this time on his third proposal, the National Assembly has already led two public hearings. The protection of nature on the one hand and the development on the other hand, the substantive basis on which the new legal regulation of our only National Park is based, are already based on its original meaning in conflict. This duality has also resulted in diametrically opposed views and requirements for proposed solutions. It is unrealistic and impossible to expect that with such a written set of interests reaching into the purely everyday interests of the local, local and non-governmental communities, it will be up to individual experts and professional institutions whenever possible to reach the unanimous and comprehensive support of such a law. Whoever adopts such a law must be aware of this and seeking full consent means running away from the responsibility for the existence and operation of the only national park we have in our Slovenia. The public debate led by the Committee on the Environment and the House of the National Assembly, under the prescribed procedure, was very good and opened the way for consideration of the proposed solutions. In a two-month presentation to the local and wider public, the proposed law was the subject of different opinions, critics, views and, of course, expectations. This should take into account the fact that a broad and time-consuming professional debate took place at the time of the establishment of the law at government level. Further quality and correctness of the proposed solutions also give the law a summary of the basic substantive solutions that have been verified and confirmed in the discussions on the previous two legislative proposals. The proposed law is certainly correct and balanced in the light of all the different interests expressed in the debate. As a common denominator of the same understanding of most of the expressed interests, a requirement was put forward for the adoption of this Act as soon as possible. Knowledge that fostered this demand is the fact that almost 30 years old law with its mechanisms and measures, the National Park is no longer able to manage effectively, not to protect nature from increasing pressure on protected areas, nor to contribute to supporting the National Park for the appropriate development of the local economy. The adoption of the proposed law will allow the expectation of the continued preservation of the Julian Alps' insurance, with all the natural wealth and features of mountain traditional culture, in the form of a national park. In this respect, it also fulfils the expectations that the World Conservation Union and the Council of Europe have addressed over the years with regard to the existence and modernisation of park management in Slovenia. In parallel, the draft law also contains a number of measures relevant to the promotion of local development and individual economies, in particular with a view to maintaining the settlement of the protected area. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are confident that the implementation of the new law will re-confirm the civilisational acquisition, which you create the national park certainly is. That's what generations have been trying to do. Of course, the work is not done yet, quite the opposite. A particular challenge will be to establish the necessary integration and participation of all those responsible for the preparation and adoption of the first management plan. The marginal closure of individual Alpine valleys will also need to be exceeded and replaced by openness and cooperation in terms of effective support for local development. The adoption of this law will also have to constitute clear support and accelerate the establishment of new insurance areas in the country. In view of the objectives set out in the current resolution on the national environmental protection programme, we are unacceptably late. A decisive step in this direction would also be a contribution to the mosaic of a new model of development on which the further development of Slovenia should be based, as countries with relatively rich natural resources. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that without wise protection and exploitation we are wasting our common future. We will support the bill together with the amendments that we have prepared with the coalition parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear congregation, all in attendance! After almost three decades, we finally came to the conclusion of a bill that has a real possibility of being adopted by the National Assembly with a great deal of agreement. It is logical, therefore, that the law in its nature is a compromise, a compromise that has emerged over decades of negotiation and coordination, which somehow unites or unites to a large extent conflicting interests in the park of living inhabitants and naturalists, as well as other interested groups. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this is a good compromise, which can still be effectively upgraded in the future if necessary. This compromise is also the basis for a balance that will not reduce environmental standards, while at the same time allowing state resources to strongly support sustainable development that takes into account all areas of human residence and action. Despite the obvious failure to reach the guidelines of the International Organisation for Nature Protection and the Small Central Area, there is a modern law before us that will allow the Triglav National Park to become a contemporary in the future and in its mission a sighted national park, which will be accessible to all and to everyone who can appreciate and respect nature as long as it has been preserved. The objectives of the law are sufficiently clearly defined. The area of the national park has every opportunity to expand, as the inhabitants of the areas now bordering the park will soon see clearly the differences, the new advantages of physical inclusion in the park, as the law defines development guidelines, incentives for the inhabitants of the national park and the ways in which these incentives can be reached. The park area will expand and strengthen its ownership as significant financial resources are provided for the purchase of private-owned land and the State has a pre-financing right for these land. According to our belief, the law is sufficiently strict in establishing protective areas and regimes within them. With regard to maintaining order in the park there are strict penalties, which some call quite draconian, but there is no problem in this, since it is a national park, for our Slovenian National Park. For the first time so far, the Triglav National Park will be managed on the basis of a management plan governed by a specific chapter. The specific chapters also regulate financing and control. In the management and financing of the National Park, it can be recognised that there are still a number of reserves to improve the implementation of policies in both areas, but this will be demonstrated by evaluations over the coming years. The same is true of supervision in the national park, which will become more effective. The new law was much more important than the previous one involving the public, including those who do not live in the national park, but who do not care what happens to the national park. The Triglav National Park Forum will be able to effectively monitor the operation of the park, as it will have to address at least the work programme with a financial plan and an annual report. Members of the Council of the Community will have to inform representatives of local communities, united in special consultative bodies, about the developments in the park and its functioning. In the Social Democrats Group, we have supported all the amendments that we believe are improving the text of the law, and we will continue to support the amendment by Articles 15 and 75. As I mentioned earlier, marriage is not ideal. It is heard that all are more or less equally dissatisfied with him, but I stress that the law will provide a good basis for the management of the national park in order to enable the inhabitants to live a decent life in it and to the visitors all the experiences, feelings and pleasures they can experience in the national park. The law will therefore be supported by the Group of Social Democrats in the conviction that it is good, without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 June 2010, marked "new". We will first discuss Article 15 and the amendment tabled by DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. We will also support this amendment. I think it solves the complications that have arisen over and over again in terms of negotiating with hunting organisations and the Hunting Union. And I am glad that, after the last meeting or after the last committee, where we have discussed this point, you have found a solution that is appropriate and which is also agreed by hunting organisations. I think that the solution now proposed in this amendment actually contains those solutions that they have proposed and with which we have also been informed on the Committee and we have agreed with them. So the solution that is proposed, which speaks not only of preventing the spread but also of preventing the occurrence of infectious diseases, I think is correct and it is right to complement it in this way. This conclusion, which speaks of the deletion of the border between the first and the second protection zones, will, I think, solve a number of complications that would likely occur further and cause difficulties in implementing this Article. For what I have already said in my introductory debate is the biggest problem, how to read a article later, and it is right to delete those things that cause ambiguity. And if we're talking specifically about certain areas, it's a sufficient dictatorship and everything else is being deleted and we're solving this amendment, it's the right approach. I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss article 15 and the amendment? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 15. We are moving on to the debate on Article 69 and the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to this article. I would like to point out that the signatures of the Group of Social Democrats to this amendment have been withdrawn. Anybody want a word? Mr. Guilty. Allow me, Mr. Krivec, because he's more interested, I'll open time. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. This amendment to Article 69 states in particular that after five years the headquarters of the Triglav National Park should be moved to the part where the majority of people live in the Triglav National Park. At the moment it is the municipality of Bohinj. And it's supposed to move to Bohinj. The amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy suggests that this transitional period of five years would move for an incredible 12-and-a-half years. This amendment is so beautifully wrapped up if you don't read well and you don't know the article of the law that you still agree with it. However, when you break it down, it is 12 and a half years, or in other words, there is no relocation of this seat of the Triglav National Park. Therefore, we absolutely protest to come to such an amendment, and in the DeSUS Group, I do not think that we will support the other parliamentary groups, both coalitions and opposition. I'm surprised by something else about the reference to liberal democracy available to people. A month ago, about, in this National Assembly, when we addressed the congregation of Mirna, they spoke about the need to respect people’s will. I agree with that. However, when they talk about an amendment to the park headquarters, I must say in advance that this was the demand and desire of the local population to move the park headquarters to the area where the most people live in the park. Right now it's the park seat on Bled. That's why I'm so surprised that in the Liberal Democracy, they went through people's will, that they didn't listen, that they didn't listen to people. Otherwise, they said that because of the costs, because of the lack of knowledge of the material situation in Slovenia and that it would not make sense that it was too expensive. 5 years is a long time and in 5 years it can change a lot, including the seat of the Triglav National Park, which is currently in Bled. I must say, this is a luxury villa, unnecessary for such an object, and it can also go for sale if there is no means. When we ask ourselves about this seat of the Triglav National Park and the costs, then the people living in Triglav National Park may think that I am the only Member from this area, and ask how much costs the country will reimburse us from 1981, when we lived under the law that was adopted at the time and which is still in force. This law has put us far off among second - class people. This law has destroyed our development in the field of tourism. This law has emptied our village. Young people were moving out and it's interesting to talk about moving young people out of the Bohin village, and we kept these villages as some kind of protection of nature, but we kept them for young Bohinj people to move out, and in these villages foreigners, especially English people, have now settled. If that was the intention of the Triglav National Park to do so, then I really don't know what and how. I would say, perhaps the purpose of the LDS was, when they were talking about big costs, maybe they wanted the new building of the Triglav National Park headquarters to do something like Ram Invest or something like that, but we need to know, the state, if Triglav National Park wants to have it, then pay it. The country wants to have an NPU salary. Why not the Triglav National Park? It can't always be on the shoulders of people who live there all the time. I will slowly conclude, and to this amendment tabled by the LDS, I will only say that it is a service of the bear to the local elections, because the LDS goes against the will of the local population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you. A colleague who spoke before me touched some things that I don't even agree with completely, but first I'm going to talk about this amendment. First. This amendment has two parts. In one part, it corrects an error which is in terms of reference to the indent. This part will probably have to be harmonised. As for the transfer of the seat, I don't think this amendment is necessary, because I think five years is enough. This explanation, which in the amendment is very little for the hair, because it speaks of European funds, about how some things need to be designed and similar, which is probably what everyone who lives here has given over their period and I believe that the five-year period, which is written in the basic dictatorship, is sufficient. This does not mean that the entire building and info center should be moved. I think that the info centre in Bled can stay as an entry point in Triglav National Park and still perform its role as a promoter to visit the park and some other tasks. I agree, however, that in some ways it is right that the seat and head of this law are in that congregation, which has the largest population, so that here we can agree with my predecessor. But I'm surprised to see that so many amendments are being tabled first, and now everyone's retreating slowly, so apparently my colleagues haven't even read the law properly. I find that these arguments are very much at stake, which we will probably also find out about the last amendment. But as far as the park is concerned, it's like it's hindering development and it's causing a problem in this room, but I don't agree with my predecessor. I've said that a lot. I do not think that the park was the one that blocked the development of tourism and prevented some initiatives in this area. There are a lot of blame in this area or local communities are not active, the cases on the Posoška side and on the Bohinska side are very different and diametric and I would not accelerate the effects of this law in the way that my colleague has afforded before me that the law is guilty of certain things that I do not think this is true. I agree, however, that this law has allowed for some development and some development in this room, but it is wrong. This will require the participation of all actors in this space and, of course, local communities as well as those who have some initiatives for development opportunities. So the law itself will not save the emigration, the development of tourism or the rest. It provides, of course, a high-quality basis for certain measures to be implemented in this respect and for the possibility of implementation to be prepared through programmes, which has so far been a hindrance to the development work in some way, since the law so far has not taken this into account in its legal bases. I wish the implementation of this law would begin as soon as possible and we will also monitor how effective it is through implementation. But the law itself will not solve the problems that lie in the very space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I must say that I am somewhat disappointed, because there is no political charge and no ideological charge in the law, which is certainly our law, all Slovenes and Slovenians, especially those living in the park area, so I cannot agree with this way of discussing amendments, because I simply do not know what the current, sometimes very unusual policy is, by speaking, say, the seat of the institution that manages and manages the national park. The second point I would point out, by the way, is that the error in relation to the paragraph of the article referred to in the amendment is not in the amendment, but is in the article itself, as amended by the article of the law, because we deleted one paragraph on the Committee, I think that the 36th article is not in the fifth paragraph anymore, but there are four. And, of course, the legal-law service will fix this in the editorial department and correct the mistake. Otherwise, I will vote against this amendment, just as we agreed in the coalition. I must say that those of us who have long lived and worked in politics know that never a single thing is final and that when the amendments are being tabled, we can change our minds. Everyone has the right to change their minds, and so do we.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Let me introductoryly say that I will vote against the amendment. It is logical, however, that in such an extensive law, especially when it comes to seat, the law covers a number of congregations, conflicting views and opinions, as well as interests. For this reason, we have also made it clear that the law as such is the product of coordination and not just in recent times, but the coordination that has taken place over the past 11 years. Finally, since the very beginning of the park, dilemmas have arisen and these dilemmas will always be present, including various interests, which is clear. In doing so, however, it must be said that the law itself, including the one that came about in 1981, demonstrated by its direction and attitude how much Slovenians are actually able to love nature and to preserve it. Because in all these years, despite the fact that we have criticized so much that we have no instruments, that we have no rules and that we do not have everything necessary, and precisely because this love through history and tradition is so present and also through education is implanted in all of us. In fact, this love has demonstrated how capable we are of preserving this nature. In this year's biodiversity, of course historically, it would be good to read some of the definitions, not only those read to us by Mr Potočnik, but also to remember Valvasor, and perhaps to awaken the memory and initiative of how some of them have already talked about our nature in the ancient past and how we actually know how to interact with this nature. And perhaps if this is one law that will show and pave the way for how to protect the national park in general, how to proceed with the protection of the park area in Slovenia, where we have many of these natural beauties. So that I don't turn my back now, and the chairman will remind me that there is no place to talk about Lake Cerknina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your kindness, Madam Members. Does anyone else want to discuss article 69? I'm giving you time to report. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is valid for the Minister with his associates! When we talk about the Triglav National Park, perhaps all of us sitting in this hall today agree that it is one of the pearls, if not the first, and certainly the second or third in this country. It is right that we talk about this with great tenderness. And I think we've been in the National Assembly, given that we've estimated that this law has been in force since 1981, that we're going to change into a new law. This was mainly done by those who had to cooperate. These are the inhabitants of the Triglav National Park. For them, Triglav National Park is the largest pearl according to the principle "There is the most beautiful where you live and where you were born, if it is also a rock". But they have something else, something richer, really beautiful nature. You can't just live in a beautiful nature. A man has to survive, too. And with this law, we somehow managed to bring all of this together and, above all, take into account the people who live there. And the will of men must be first. For this reason, I personally believe that it is undeniable that the seat of the Triglav National Park must be within the park. I don't mind that this seat has been in Bled for so many years. But if Bled's not inside the Triglav National Park, then let the seat go where the locals suggest. You know, it seems to me like a farmer has a farm somewhere far away, and he'd run this farm far away. That's not working. That is why I propose and respect the will of people and will not support the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We've heard quite a few nice words about this marriage today. I will join myself because it is — in my opinion — that this law will be passed, great progress and a great event for Slovenia, for culture and for all that we have in mind and for all that makes up national pride, from Lipica, Postojna Cave, Triglav National Park. My thought is in particular because, as alternate member of the committee meeting, I have thought and listened to discussions about hunting, about diseases that occur, of course, and about forests, and there is no exception to Triglav National Parks, especially here we have dealt with gardens that appear, animals suffer a lot until their death, and I am also here convinced that there will be a real solution to the hygiene shot and that the matter will work as it should be. However, it is sometimes very difficult to live in such areas. I live alone in Cyprus, which is a single cultural monument and you can't make up exactly what you'd like to do, like someone who lives outside. But the acceptance of these gifts that we have is also one relation to everything that surrounds us, so I'm sure the Triglav National Park will live with this law as it is now. The administrative decision where it will be established does not seem to me to be an important issue for the debate, but it seems more important to me that this administration will work. Brada and I talked earlier because we're both from Slovenian Istria. Our farmers had fields scattered all over the area because we are not in Slavonia to have a huge field for the house. And I don't think it's necessary to debate anything about where the administration will be, the important thing is that it will be effective and that it will implement the law and, of course, it will work in the sense that we all imagined together, especially those who have done very much and in my opinion managed to bring together a very important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I had to come to the end. I support the solution in this article and I think it would be understandable that, I think, enough discussion would be sufficient on the parental committee itself, where this article was somehow appointed in all paragraphs, so I do not think it would make sense for me to support this amendment in any way. We also see that the individual parliamentary groups that have made the right and have also properly deviated from the proposal, so I would like to announce that I support a solution which is in the final text and in the amended bill, and I will not support this amendment, nor will my fellow Members from the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I can see that there is no longer any interest in the debate and I conclude the debate on Article 69. We are moving on to the debate on Article 75 and the amendment tabled by the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Zares parliamentary groups to this article. I'm giving you time to report to the debate. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you, again, for your word. I'd like to say two words to my colleague first. The hunting was in Article 15, and there was an amendment that saved those things that you were talking about. I'm just wondering, just so provocatively, how would you watch if Luke Koper's seat were moved to Sežana, and I don't think the coast would understand this story. So what they're proposing is perfectly correct and I have to say I agree, I've said this before. As far as this amendment is concerned, Article 75. We had a debate on this on the committee and unanimously confirmed that this piece is incorporated into the law, it is said to be made possible in Article 75 when the law on the existing Vogel ski is speaking about the possibility of expanding with spatial acts and giving the possibility of development to this ski resort. In this article, we added in the fourth indent that consideration should be given to the possibility of regulating access or connection on the Tolmin side as well. I must say that there has been quite a broad debate on this subject on the Committee, including on the possibilities allowed by the law in this direction. And through quite a bit of bile debate and the ministry's responses, we have found that such a dictatorship that we have proposed on the Committee and has been adopted allows this to be done through the rest of the articles. Of course, this does not mean that this option is tomorrow, but allows that, in the future with the State Spatial Plan, when there is an economic initiative, access from the Tolmine side, which means from Baska Grape, that we are more concrete, we can be placed. And it's an opportunity to even think about it. You, the coalition, I think all the parliamentary groups are here, you're rejecting this again. Now I wonder, for all the exceptions, but I don't mind the exceptions that we have incorporated into this law, from Planica, Pokluka, Bohinj and so on, where the facts have already been written, you had no objection at the time, although I know that certain colleagues also have concerns about individual matters. So that's when you put it in the marriage. In this case, when it is only allowed for anyone to think about it in the future and to prepare a document that confirms it or rejects it, you have a priori against it. This is a duplicity for me in the case of this marriage. On the one hand, you allow the possibility that some exceptions will already be incorporated directly into the law, on the other hand, where we propose a solution that only opens the door for some possible development in this valley, which we all know is handicapped, and you throw away this proposal, which is very correct and which does not prejudge anything, only allows anyone to think about this solution at some point in time, and you say that it is inappropriate. Besides, the explanation accompanying me has revolutionized me the most. When you talk about some extinct part of the area becoming even more extinct. I am cariculating, but whoever reads the explanation, because I see that most Members have not even read this law, nor have they read the amendments, so they are applying and withdrawing the amendments because you do not know what you are talking about. Therefore, I propose to the coalition, given that you have withdrawn quite a few amendments, to give careful thought to the last one you have tabled, to look at the content and therefore to withdraw this amendment. This is my proposal, and it would be the right thing to do. This explanation is below the level of all the parliamentary groups you have proposed. You are talking about some neglected places where there is no life, and where you claim that there will never be, and that people prefer turning to the railway, even though we all know that the railway that was built in the time of Franz Joseph led to Bohinj about ten minutes faster than now. And you're giving this as an alternative to this area. I think it's embarrassing that such a doctrine is written at all. We'd write that you don't agree with that. And this explanation is very, very controversial for me. The explanation even states that it is a solution that fundamentally and fundamentally changes the spatial and regime composition of the bill, that it must be rejected in its entirety as harmful and contrary to the fundamental purposes of park protection. I hope that we have passed this story, that the park is merely a protection and that it has been implanted through all these debates that have been held in public for eight years under the Law of Vukkov, by the law that was introduced in the previous term through Minister Podobnik, and that the park is not only a protection, prevention and protection and survival over how some things should not be done, but also a park to allow some development possibilities. And this dictatorship allows them, does not prejudge them, as do your exceptions, which I generally agree with, but are exceptions. This article only allows for the possibility that in the future someone can think about some placement. And through all previous dictions, this law makes it possible, no matter what area there is. So read your explanation, where you travel people from this area of Tolmina, which is already already neglected in terms of road links and also the railways are worse every day, that we are in the clear, as I said, at the time when the railway was built, it brought in Ljubljana rather than now, unfortunately. And you're raping this area and directing them to get on the train so they can go to Vogel. You don't even know that the train brings you to Bohinjsko Bistrica, where the Kobla ski resort is, not Vogel. So whoever wrote this doesn't even know the geography. And as far as this explanation goes, it's very much below my level, so I suggest you consider this amendment and withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word yes, probably not on that subject. [[...]] Sign up, sir. You know what, first you have to have a debate, then it's possible to have a replica, because the replica is an explanation of the debate. You will have your word, Mr. Crossman, only as a debater. All right. But not now. Mr Mirko Brulc and Mr Preseknik are now first reported. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that ski slopes leave wounds in nature and are not always beautiful acts. When we observe these cuts and nuclei, etc., we know that there is a sport developed there. Unfortunately, I could not attend the meeting of the committee at which this proposal was adopted to delete this amendment, but I am thinking differently. Baska Grapa is an extremely beautiful valley, which cannot live on almost anything, not from forestry, nor from livestock farming, and perhaps with such an intervention when you get this connection to Triglav National Park, perhaps only a few jobs remain in Baska Grapa. For he who rides by train to Kobla, he shall still ride by train. The Bohin trail is interesting from a tourist point of view and I only hope that it will stay alive because it has a bad future. I think it would be right for this document to be referred to in this law, which we are now talking about, to preserve the possibility that state space conditions are real cattle and not politics to say whether these links are real or not. I know too little about all these small settlements and hills that are there in Baska Grapa, if it is really impossible to build the infrastructure that is then absolutely necessary for the cableway or the headquarters, whatever, to work. I don't know that. However, with the possibility of opening a debate at the professional level, it is said, when preparing spatial acts, it will then be determined whether this is possible or not. And if that's not possible, then this construction will never happen. However, I think this connection between these two skis would be useful for the development of tourism in this valley. That's why I probably won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that I certainly like this solution, which is in Article 75, which is in the complementary proposal of the law. After all, I have already said in the opinion of the Group that we are particularly careful about whether the bill provides or allows development opportunities. That's it. This fourth paragraph of Article 75, as a whole, allows for developmental possibilities and the last part of the sentence, paragraph or sentence, of course also allows for connection to the Tolmine side or from the Baska Grape, as my predecessor had previously explained. So I don't understand why the coalition has now gone with a proposal to this amendment that would draw this possibility. After all, it is only a possibility of being placed in a space whatever it is, with all the legislation that is, of course, to be taken into account. I would also like to know what the Ministry of Environment and Space thinks, but my predecessors have already said that it is, above all, and therefore the explanation is completely incomprehensible. After all, I don't know what kind of good knower this area is, but I've been in this area so many times, that I know that people live there, and that these people who have very difficult opportunities and opportunities for life, let alone for development, that they have to be allowed to develop in the future. When you read this, it gave me the idea that some would prefer at the beginning and at the end of this valley, which they gave the lock up. This, of course, does not work if we want to give people a developmental perspective, a developmental opportunity. And for that reason, with the pleasure of this amendment, I will not support it. I think it would be good, given that you have already withdrawn a number of amendments from the individual parliamentary groups, and I think it would be good to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. Anton Urh has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Despite the fact that the Group of Members is also a signatory to this amendment, after considering and listening to my colleague Krivec, this matter began to be monitored slightly differently. In fact, the amendment says that the possibilities of regulating access and connection with the Tolminian side are being explored. This amendment does not oblige the legislator in any way; it is only to consider options. And since we are talking about respect for people and respect for the will of people, we will discuss this in the Group of Members, and we will probably decide not to support this amendment. Because even for this amendment is the wish of the people on the side of Primorska, and therefore we must somehow follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly. I will support this amendment, but I have also spoken about animals when I have my word, regardless of what article they are in, Mr Krivec. That's my relationship. Otherwise, when you asked me how I would react if the seat or administration of the Koper Congregation were elsewhere — at this point I would be very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u67	Good. We're at 75. My colleague Krivec will not suggest that the seat of the congregation of Bovec be transferred elsewhere, I am sure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I quite agree with you, Mr President, but my colleague Krizman did not listen well to my previous debate. I wasn't talking about the congregation, I was talking about Luka Koper, because this is some institution that is so, I would say, important for this area, and it's not politically defined as the Triglav National Park. And that's why I said I support you to move to the area where the largest population is from Triglav National Park. But at the same time, I said that at Bled it doesn't mean cancelling, but it can mean an information point at the entrance to a park that can be used well. It's just a suggestion. As far as hunting is concerned. We got the wrong idea again. You were talking about hunters, not animals. And I told you that this is harmonised in Article 15, because the debate had already taken place on the Committee and on the Committee was a proposal for the Ministry to align itself with the hunters. And I'm glad they came up with a solution that's allowed on both sides. So much for your understanding and you'll know what it means in individual articles. However, as far as Mr Brulco is concerned, I agree with him, but this part was installed on the committee, it is said that the possibility of development is also allowed in the tolmin part of the park. And now the coalition is making an amendment to this solution, which we have unanimously supported on the committee, both the coalition and the opposition. So it'll be clear what we're talking about. However, I will read this article because I see that the majority, which is signed under the amendments and who is discussing, does not even read the articles. This amendment refers to the fourth paragraph of Article 75, which reads as "no matter the prohibition of Articles 29, 30 and 31" – this refers to ski resorts – "Article 13 of this Law, may be by means of a State spatial act" – I hope that you are "can" – not "must" – which in cases of other exceptions writes as exceptions and also the title of the article refers to exceptions. However, it does not speak here, but it speaks of the fact that the State Spa Act in the National Park can plan the arrangements and expansion of the Vogl ski resort in the third protection area, the construction of facilities on the Vogel ski slope and the construction of a water reservoir for the purposes of the Vogel ski resort in the third protection area. And on the committee, we added "and the possibility of regulating access or connection to the Tolmine side". We are not talking about extending the ski slope to the Tolmin side, because this is not economical either, but we are talking about the possibility that even from this valley it is possible to access this ski resort, which means some developmental opportunity for this valley, which I will not talk about very much, because you probably all know it more than I do. In order to substantiate that this is correct, I will also say that only the extension of the park occurred in the Tolminian case in which this law is being examined and that a certain part of the Tolmin municipality or this area has been incorporated into the park area, and this village of Kneška Ravne on the Tolmin side. So, in this case, they would be very unfair if you voted on such an amendment as you proposed. It is said that people in this area have found through public debates, public debates and the adoption of this law that the law and the Triglav National Park is an opportunity and that legislation also supports it. In this case, when we put in an option that allows development, you would kind of delete it. With this, we have given a very negative signal to those people or those areas who would like to join the Triglav National Park area in the future. So once again I appeal to you, as you have some previous amendments in some way withdrawn to the vote that will take place in the evening, I think you have enough time to withdraw this amendment and that this explanation in the text is somehow thrown away. Because if you read this, as I said before, you'll be in a bit of a bad mood yourself, whether you've been written by professional services or by someone, but it's not the right explanation. And neither does it hold nor break the law, nor does it affect anything that is stated in this explanation. Once again, like my colleague before me, consider and withdraw this amendment, because otherwise I believe that the Members who have listened here will certainly reject this amendment and it would be more reasonable to withdraw it themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u70	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! I'm mostly going to comment on this story. We regret, in fact, that, because of the obvious local situation, these places are not included in the TNP, which would give them additional opportunities for development. Apparently, one option was delayed at one stage. Due to the configuration of the terrain, it is quite difficult to arrange for a greater volume of traffic and other infrastructure, cableways, cleaning facilities and others. Perhaps it would be good to look for other developmental solutions. I must also say that the Department of Nature Protection has warned something about this. Just like a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I ask you again to report to the debate. The word is Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thanks again for saying that. I have to replicate with the Minister. I know he doesn't know this problem, and he's got a crop leaf just before the plantation, but I would still expect him to get a little deeper into it. I said a little earlier that the only area in Tolminsk was included in the park, which is said to have been an opportunity. To refer to some technical obstacles, and to how someone will give negatives at the time when we are talking only about the possibility of even considering a matter. We know that it is necessary to get someone, I would say, an initiative, an economic support where someone will propose that such a solution be implemented at all, and then all the procedures envisaged by the State's location plan will take place. I believe that it will also be possible to prove that this is not economically sustainable and we will not even get someone who would give such an initiative to make it work. But it's a priority in this law to write such nonsense and this explanation as you have now that someone will write it negatively. I think that's a trick. If we allow the possibility for other things to be dealt with, it is correct to consider such an option when an initiative arises. Unless we're talking in this case with a fig in our pocket about this marriage. And I'm going to be very careful how it's going to be done, because obviously some people are reading these articles again. If we're talking about the possibility of development, it has to be allowed. I agree that putting into space then requires the rules of the game, but does not prioritise in advance that someone lets himself in the position that right now is being designed and going into how something is not possible there. I don't know, I didn't write that it had to be. The proposal was to allow this possibility and nothing else. Once again, I appeal, remove this amendment, and above all, an explanation that is not in any way harmful to the one who wrote it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Minister, and I have also asked him somehow to give the opinion of the Ministry, what he thinks about this amendment, but, as I say, I will repeat myself a little earlier, and my colleague Krivec, also because I have practically nothing to add, but I stress that it is difficult in advance to determine whether there is any possibility in the space itself, because this arrangement or the conclusion of the paragraph is completely open – the possibility of regulating access or connection with the Tolminian side. Surely it is not just one option, just one part of the valley, where any kind of technical connection would be made, but the matter is completely open and therefore it is my opinion that it is necessary to leave in the law itself an option which, as I said before, of course, will be examined from all possible salaries, from all possible co-operators and all possible professions and so on. And the investor has to be for that and so on. I remain here, thanking the Minister for giving his opinion properly. But I will vote against this amendment myself, as I said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment to Article 75? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since he does not want to discuss it anymore, I am also concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda or half an hour after the end of the agenda item. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, just a moment to replace the team. I give the floor to the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The New Law on Local Self-Government, which you are considering today, interferes with that part of this law, which regulates the transformation of the area of already established municipalities and the establishment of new municipalities. It is the abolition of the legal implementation by constitutionally defined conditions and by part of the procedure for the establishment of a municipality in which it was decided as the right of the inhabitants of a particular area to their own municipality, in a manner which is the same as the decision on the rights and legal benefits of the administrative procedure in the case of essential constituents, since the applicant may reach the amended decision of the National Assembly by means of an administrative dispute. The conditions and procedure that the novels abolished were encouraging that the municipalities of Slovenia differ greatly from one another mainly according to the ability to carry out their tasks and the ability to finance these tasks. Objectively, the ability to provide for the fulfilment of the needs and interests of local communities and to carry out the laws of certain original tasks of the municipality is linked to the number of people who provide the municipality with the appropriate means to carry out its tasks, so the condition of 5 thousand inhabitants can be regarded as an objective basis for assessing that municipalities with fewer inhabitants are unable to carry out their tasks in accordance with the principle of functional and financial autonomy. Therefore, the Government has decided to propose that all provisions should be deleted from the law which would give the impression that there is a change in the areas of the municipalities and also the establishment of new municipalities to decide on the right to their own municipality. Local self-government, and in this context also its territorial component, must have sufficient room for change. However, it is crucial that the changes are aimed at strengthening local self-government and its functional and financial capacities, i.e. greater autonomy in relation to the country. Only as a whole can the proposed law be the basis for establishing a stable territorial structure of local self-government and achieving these objectives. Before the second reading of the draft law, we received the opinion of the Council of State, which assessed the law and its objectives positively and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which confirms the proposal's subordination and non-compliance with the rule of law. Let me say that we do not accept this opinion because in the assumption of the existence we refer to the rights to local self-government as the rights of the inhabitants of a particular area to their own municipality. It is intended to maintain the legal provisions in force or to further specify the conditions for the establishment of municipalities and the completion of the procedure in terms of the protection of the rights of the proposer. I would like to point out that, in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which forms part of our legal order, "local self-government marks the right and capacity of local authorities to regulate and carry out essential parts of public affairs within the framework of their tasks which benefit the local population". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President William Trofenik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u78	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. At its 7th regular meeting on 3 June this year, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government as a work force. Before the hearing, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the position of the Government on the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission for National Communities and the opinion of the municipalities of Izola and the Municipality of Kamnik. In view of the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service has given the proposal of the law the opposite opinion as advocated by the Government, it was explained at the meeting of the Committee, initially by a representative of the Government, that the Government cannot follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which defines the right of residents to local self-government as the right to their own municipality. According to the Government, it is a misunderstanding of the concept of Local Self-Government and Article 9 of the Constitution, which speaks of the provision of local self-government in Slovenia. On the basis of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, it means the right to local self-government, the right and the ability of local authorities, in a specific case of municipalities to regulate and carry out, within the limits of the law, an essential part of local public affairs for the benefit of their population. Therefore, the Government considers that insistence on the procedure so far, with a more detailed specification of the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, or a more detailed definition of the procedure for legal protection, in which the applicant could challenge the right to his own municipality, as proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service, contrary to the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The opinion of the Government was not agreed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who, in an additional explanation of the opinion, pointed out that the concept of the bill was unclear both in terms of the constitutional and legal arrangements in force and in terms of the solutions proposed, since it was proposed to delete most of the legislative provisions governing the area in question. It considered that the constitutional provisions relating to local self-government were not exhausted by its introduction in the Republic of Slovenia and that if the aim of the proposer was to prevent further fragmentation of the territorial structure of local self-government and arbitrariness in the decision-making process, it would be necessary to consider improving the current regime towards sharpening and further developing the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. In the discussion on the articles of the bill, different views and opinions were expressed at the meeting. Some members of the Committee felt that the different perspectives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia raise doubts about the proposed concept of the bill. The Committee strongly supported the substantive concept of the bill and the proposed solution to transform the current arrangements for the establishment of municipalities into an arrangement for the transformation of municipalities and thus to complete the process of establishing new and new municipalities. It was stressed that it is high time that we gradually move closer to the modern organisation of local self-government in some developed European countries. This, of course, does not mean that the network of municipalities will no longer be able to establish a new congregation in the future, but the bill sets a clear lower limit of 5,000 inhabitants, except in the case of an association where the number of inhabitants of the new united congregation can also be less than 5,000. The Committee did not support the amendment to Article 2 of the proposal for a law to provide and upgrade the conditions for the conservation and development of indigenous national communities, nor did the Committee support the amendment to Article 7 of the proposed law, which, as an exception to the granting of the status of the municipal municipality, would allow the status of the municipality to be granted to a municipality which manages, at national and global level, a significant natural and cultural heritage and which is included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, although it does not meet the conditions of the population and jobs. The Committee has not adopted any amendments and has adopted all the articles of the proposed law and is therefore proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Zares Group will be presented by Villa Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you again very much for your word. With the end of the fourth term of office in the field of local self-government, and with many changes in legislation in the area of the establishment of local communities in the past, we have agreed to the current 210 municipalities, more than half of which do not correspond to the lower limit of 5,000 inhabitants or more than half of them are the result of the exceptional establishment of municipalities, but not all of them are still satisfied with the new municipalities' appetites. This situation has been caused by a misinterpretation of the constitutional right to local self-government, which has unfortunately been overly understood and interpreted as the right to its municipality and due to the lack of a quality, professional and politically supported national project on the separation of the state into municipalities. As a result of the actions so far, we have municipalities that differ greatly in their capacity to implement the Constitution and the laws of the regulated system of local self-government and increasingly in the state's treasury financial system of local self-government, which is contrary to the fundamental direction of local self-government on as much financial autonomy as possible. The existing fragmentation and the aspirations for further articles directly undermine the quality of services in the field of local self-government and therefore need to be amended in terms of safeguarding the quality of local self-government. The proposed amendments to the law change the arrangements so far for the establishment of new municipalities into arrangements for the conversion of their areas and arrangements for the establishment of municipal municipalities into arrangements for the granting of municipal status. The proposed amendment to the laws removes all provisions on the conditions to be met by the municipalities and which have in the past led to such a wrong equation of the right to local self-government by the right to its municipality and allow for arbitral decision-making by the National Assembly. The territory of the municipality may be changed in the future by law following a previous referendum and the legislative procedure is equivalent to the ordinary legislative procedure. Although the ability to ensure the quality of local self-government is linked to the number of inhabitants, the question arises as to the appropriateness of a specific number or criterion of 5,000 inhabitants. Undoubtedly, compared to some other countries that have implemented or implemented reforms in the past, local self-government reforms or these reforms are gradually being implemented, this figure is relatively low. It is only understood as the first step towards stopping and to some extent stabilising the current trend of territorial fragmentation in the field of local self-government in Slovenia and thus allowing for the preparation of the necessary further steps. The proposed changes represent, although late, but urgently needed step, which is not sufficient. The following steps are necessary in the area of financing, which will follow the pursuit of the greatest possible financial autonomy, the dispersion of financial resources and the stimulation of efforts for the greatest possible financial resources, as well as in the area of competences and tasks of local communities which, by nature, cannot be aligned with the community with the various human, financial and economic potentials that we have here. In the following steps, it is also necessary to resolve the situation of the city and those municipalities that carry out important tasks of wider importance but do not meet the conditions for obtaining the status of the city’s municipality. It is high time that we learn something from the past and consider the necessary strategy and political consensus for the further development of local self-government. With such conviction and expectations about the urgent next steps, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in our parliamentary group, indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u82	Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Minister! We have taken some important steps in this country. One of them was secure independence, another such important step was the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government in 1994 and, of course, the third entry into European integration. Many things have been decided in the National Assembly, but few have produced truly good fruits. If anything, the Law on Local Self - Administration and the Establishment of Congregations gave birth to an average of good fruit. It would have been even better if the law had stated that those who wanted the congregation also set it up at the referendum, or as suggested, by the Phariau. I'm afraid that didn't happen. However, on the left, as well as on the right-hand side of this decision, this work is felt by citizens and citizens in this country all, whether they elect one or the other political option. And now that we have fallen for 20 places of economic attraction, when we have taken lunches for the students, when we take pensions from the pensioners, the government has finally come up with a proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. This means one of the good, excellent projects that produced fruit, whether left or right, because citizens and citizens in each congregation have just defined it as they are, this government has remembered to take it. Is there anything left? I'm afraid that's all. You're just the way you are. Why are you taking this? Why? Because this legislation has not grown on your herb because you were not the author of this, because you simply do not want Slovenia to develop decentralised, because after the adoption of such or different, and I do not know which law on coherent regional development has already happened. Even now, if you ask me, we have a pretty good law on coherent regional development, but we should give money. There are some of these cases of mayors sitting in here with well below 5,000 inhabitants. But something else has come up in these four mandates, which I am also present. If they had been created, even when the left hand side had the majority of the congregations she wanted, only the law should have written down — and for this also in the Slovenian People's Party, because it was happening — that if Anton Anderlič was the proponent, then the congregation would be established, but if there was someone else, it would not. Colleagues and colleagues, what you have done just before the setting up of the congregation of Ankaran is, to say the least, your doing of mercy is worth it. Even more. The legal and legal service wrote to you, gave you a position, with the Government's explanation, once again the Legal and Legislative Service did not agree – that this is contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. Someone said that having a congregation is a right, and the right is also the ability to manage it. Colleagues and colleagues, lots of laws, a lot of obligations on the local community, so you didn't take care of the money, the finances. Now even some of you are predicting that you will close the tentacles, that is, the funding. Yeah, take it easy! Look, pull your masks down and tell them we'll shut down the congregations. Do this because you have a chance, you have a majority, you can afford anything! Of course, the question is how long you will be watched and listened to by citizens and citizens. Your time is running out. The time for local government is still coming. And that is why in the Slovenian People's Party we will oppose such a stupid law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Time's up. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is right that we have different opinions in this room, and it is right to coordinate them. I respect every opinion. This time, I will give the opinion of our Group of Members, and to a large extent also my own personal opinion. The number of municipalities in our small country is steadily increasing. I would like to remind you that many of you know that in 1990 we had 60 congregations in our country, that in 1995 we had 147 congregations reformed, in 2002 193 congregations, now I have 210. As I have already said, in our Group of Members, we assess this in our own way and in some way oppose that this immeasurable fragmentation is spreading and spreading. In the future, I think we should encourage small congregations to unite so that they do not crush. We have 117 municipalities in this country that do not meet the conditions. I cannot believe that we have regulated legislation in this area and that we have changed it consciously because of the political interests and have changed or changed the possibilities for the establishment of municipalities. Five thousand inhabitants should be one border, and it is right to write down and justify it. One of the biggest problems of the municipalities is the problem of financing. The congregation’s incomes so far have been increasing, and now for the first time, they will fall. An even larger decline due to the way in which income is taken into account can be expected in 2011. Revenues are falling enormously, and social transfers expenditure is also higher, for which the municipality is obliged to provide funds for its citizens. Funds should be provided for the implementation by law of certain tasks of municipalities, and less and less resources for development tasks and investments, in particular for investment maintenance in kindergartens, schools and so on. For all the reasons stated in our Group of Members, we are in principle in favour of the Government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party – I remember this for ten years – we have always warned that we are against the fragmentation of municipalities. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always warned that the National Assembly as a legislative branch of power is in violation of the Law establishing municipalities. Regardless of the power, since the Liberal Democrats were in power, they were SDS, they were Social Democrats – it was always a political decision and a political decision. When they were in power, they established their congregations when they were others, seeking to establish their congregations. And thank God that in this term, even with the promises of the present minister I have written, this story has ended. In 1991 we had 60 municipalities – the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1995, five years later, we had 147 congregations, three times as many. In 1998, 46 others were added. Today we have 210, which means 150 more than 1991. Of these, more than half of them did not meet and do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a congregation. It is not fair, and here the Slovenian National Party has a clear conscience that today they are pronouncing themselves, "but because it is Peace on your turn, you have adopted this law" or, "because it is this one and this one on your turn, you have adopted this law". Once upon a time, somewhere the story must end. And here it is, or I hope it will. And that's right. Of course, we want everyone to have such a local community that will meet the conditions. This is that primary school has primary health care, that it has life support, that it has municipal equipment, that it has postal services, that it has financial services, that it has a library, that it has room for administrative activities of the local community and that it has 5,000 inhabitants, because only so many or more residents can transfer some financial sustainability, is not going any further. We didn't do anything good when we started microcities. Thus, it was not at the expense of the State, and all the other municipalities that merged were in harm’s way. And each congregation received fewer and fewer. And those who met the conditions could not meet all the conditions and wishes of the local community precisely because of this. There is nothing dishonest or dishonest in this law. The point is that we will – at least hope – stop this political division of these congregations. That the condition is such and that the one who fulfills this condition, and if he wants to have his congregation under conditions, he will have it — without bad conscience and without reservation. It is true, however, what they wrote in the Legislative and Legal Service, and we are likely to see for ourselves – that the addition of the law must be carried in the direction of sharpening and more precise distribution conditions for the establishment of municipalities. That's right. What is enshrined in this bill is a good step and a good direction, desiring to actually make order in this area, but not sufficiently concrete, too precise, too restrictive – still. It'll still be time to fix it. And in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal of the law in all respects, and we want to have those municipalities that will meet all the required conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The current situation in Slovenia is such that we have 210 municipalities in Slovenia. This year, we expect the establishment of new congregations, regardless of the atmosphere in the National Assembly, and this can even happen to us through the decision of the Constitutional Court. 110 municipalities have fewer than 5,000 people, although this is the number of criteria for establishing new municipalities from the start. Since the beginning, we have actually established congregations according to some other criteria. The municipalities differ greatly from one another according to the ability to implement the Constitution and the laws of the regulated system of local self-government. Based on the functional component of the local self-government, which includes tasks, and the ability to finance and carry out these tasks, we can find that the municipalities generally have the same function, only the extent is different, with financial and human resources less capable municipalities not enforcing or achieving the same standards, services for their citizens. Not all municipalities have sufficient and sufficiently diverse own funding resources and additional resources have to be provided within the country, which is good, as the State has also imposed additional tasks on municipalities. All municipalities do not have sufficient human resources to carry out their administrative and development tasks on their own effectively and it was therefore necessary to encourage the joint implementation of these tasks through additional funding from the State budget. Objectively, the ability to ensure the fulfilment of the needs and interests of the local community and the fulfilment of the law of certain original tasks of the municipality is linked to the number of people providing the municipality with the primary means to carry out its tasks. Therefore, the condition of 5 thousand inhabitants can at the same time be regarded as an objective basis for assessing that municipalities with fewer inhabitants are unable to carry out their tasks in accordance with the principles of functional and financial autonomy. In view of the progress of the existing procedures for the formation and monitoring of the network of municipalities, the question arises as to what we can expect if the legal bases remain the same. It is unwarranted to expect that all participants in this process, taking into account the functional and financial autonomy of the municipality, will pursue a common objective, namely, such municipalities as will be able to provide common needs and the realization of the common interests of their inhabitants. This objective can only be achieved through changes to the law, but in several ways. The possibility is to set higher criteria for the municipality, e.g. the number of people, to determine the manner and deadlines for the independent association of municipalities and the legislators to unite the municipality by law in accordance with higher criteria on a proposal from the Government if they do not join voluntarily. However, the fact is that in any event we should determine the will of the people in the referendum on this merger, which I firmly believe would not have worked in Slovenia. However, the objective can also be achieved gradually by making changes to the procedure for changing municipalities and fully respecting the provisions of the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, first of all, halting the further fragmentation of municipalities and stabilising their functional and financial capabilities. At the same time, congregations should be encouraged to connect and jointly carry out tasks that go beyond the ability of each of them and are in their interest to carry out them together. In this way, the network of municipalities can be expected to establish and allow for an in-depth functional analysis of the actual performance of tasks under the jurisdiction of municipalities, the established principle of subsidiarity in determining those tasks and in ensuring the financing of those tasks. The aim of the bill is to establish a stable territorial structural local self-government that will enable municipalities to exercise their independence in the implementation of local self-government, so in the LDS Club we will support the proposed amendment of the law, and we are confident in the parliamentary club that the municipality's development so far has been more rapid, especially in providing municipal infrastructure in rural areas and in providing better conditions for pre-school and primary education activities and thereby improving the quality of life of its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by Dr László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are aware that the main reason for complementing the existing law on local self-government is to regulate the scope of the conditions governing the establishment of new municipalities and to take into account changes in the direction of reducing the fragmentation of municipalities. We are also in principle in agreement with this within our parliamentary group, and we believe that further, in particular, substantively and in terms of the actual interests of the population, sustainable steps will have to be taken in this direction. However, due to the important, unfortunately poorly determined provisions of the law from the point of view of indigenous national communities, we must also draw attention to this or the difficulties in this area when adopting the current proposal. In view of the importance of organising local self-government in terms of maintaining the natural identity of indigenous national communities, we note that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, including in the light of the text of Article 2, which provides for the deletion of Article 13, paragraph 13, which directly relates to the constitutional role of indigenous national communities in the field of the organisation of local self-government, constitutes, in a certain sense, a reduction in the legal level to date. This is true despite the fact that the nationality aspect here was more present in a different role. The present third paragraph of Article 13a, although only unilaterally and not entirely, defines that the presence of indigenous national communities is an important factor in the establishment of municipalities in areas where members of the Italian and Hungarian communities live, and therefore will mean the deletion of the so-called national aspect under conditions for the establishment of municipalities to reduce the possibility of the exercise of the legal rights of the national communities. Secondly, I stress, although this aspect has been in some other role so far. The adoption of the bill reduces or narrows down, in a certain sense, the Community function as entities in the field of organisation of local self-government in the national mixed area in particular because Article 5 of the Local Self-Government Act provides for only one segment of the resolution of this important issue. On the Commission for National Communities, and also on the Committee on Local Self-Government, we have considered our complementary amendment, which has not received support and given that Article 5 of the Law has not been opened and also because, in the amendment itself, we must acknowledge that this issue was not entirely raised precisely because of the non-resistance of that Article, we would like to draw attention in particular to the gap in this area. Although the content mentioned in the proposed amendments, i.e. the importance of the national communities in organising local self-government, will not be improved in our opinion, we would like to reiterate this vital interest of the national community, which could also be based on constitutional and international arguments, but I will not do so now. In short, in terms of what we have said and on some double point in this case, we will decide on our conscience in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is already clear from the applicant’s explanation that this law removes the conditions that should be met by the area in order to be the municipality, since these conditions were the basis for the presumption of the right to its own municipality and the basis for the arbitral decision. The applicant also says that all provisions based on the understanding of the right to local self-government as rights to its own municipality have been deleted. The criteria for the exceptional establishment of municipalities and the consultative referendum prior to the award of municipal status have been removed. An interesting comparison is that at least the first one, which speaks of Denmark, which has 5.5 million inhabitants and has 271 municipalities up to a few years ago, has now been reduced to 98 by the reform of local self-government. We have 210 municipalities in 2 million people and there is no indication that the trend of setting up new small municipalities has stopped – if it does not comply with the criteria, the process of setting up and, of course, the financing of local self-government. The proposed solution proposed by the Government is in line with the views of the Social Democrats, which we have in fact been pointing out from the beginning a systemic error that has made it possible, and today, too, the excessive fragmentation of Slovenia into very different municipalities, both by size and by number of people and by population. Exceptions have become a rule and the number of municipalities that count less than 5,000 inhabitants exceeds a reasonable number. So today we have 210 municipalities, which means that the municipalities are supposed to number about 9,500 people on the average. The reality is quite different; we have an extremely large and on the other hand an extremely small congregation, both by population and by surface. And what have we achieved with the introduction of this local self-government and the fragmentation of Slovenia to 210 municipalities today? We did the opposite of what we wanted. The effect is that we now have a much more centralized Slovenia in 210 congregations than we could have in a smaller number of congregations. The reason, of course, is that it is impossible for such different municipalities, both in size and as a result, to delegate state or other tasks to all municipalities equally, because this is simply not possible because there is no potential for carrying out these tasks in local communities. Of course, they would be unjust and would feel that the smaller congregations have failed, as I said, to do wrong and actually be superficial in their assessment, for these small congregations have carried out their mission — no matter how we view this fragmentation. They corrected the shortcomings that were pointed out when those inhabitants and the inhabitants expressed their desire to establish the congregations. First of all, infrastructure was, of course, in the broadest sense of the word. This has been a success in saving these congregations in recent years, and this cannot be seen. Now there are projects that go too far beyond the capacity of these smaller local communities and there is a need for integration and, as we wish, integration. It is important to stress that this first step towards this change of law is right and is directed towards the right goal; but that it will not be enough. It will be necessary to amend the Law on Community Financing. This is the only way to encourage local communities to connect. As long as the formula 1 + 1 = 3 applies in the past as regards the amount of funds received by local communities, once they are distributed, of course, this trend cannot be expected to stop itself, and even with the amendment of this law, the desire to establish new municipalities will still be present. So another step has to be taken, this is to amend the Law on the Financing of Communities, which will be stimulated to unite municipalities in the larger local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! The Government, as the proponent of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, wants to prevent the establishment of those municipalities whose areas, according to the Government, met the conditions and then did not receive a green light in the National Assembly to carry out the referendum, but they still hope that the Constitutional Court will order the National Assembly to correct the error. This law also aims to end the reform of local self-government, since the municipalities are the main units of local self-government. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated in its decisions that the formation of municipalities is a process in which they will continue to develop towards as natural and functional as possible, taking into account the legal criteria. This amendment of the law, by deleting Article 13, paragraph 2, and Article 13a, paragraph 3a, removes the criteria for determining the areas and remains only a criterion of 5,000 inhabitants, which has not been properly substantiated so far, since we now have 110 municipalities that do not meet this condition and are successfully providing local self-government. If the Government would like to prevent the establishment of inappropriate municipalities, it should tighten the conditions and specify rather than abolish them. It is possible to establish a municipality with 5,000 inhabitants, but it does not meet the conditions set out in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government. Thus, it will be possible to establish a municipality, which has 5,000 inhabitants in a centrally-populated city if the current political will is to take place. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed law is contrary to Article 9 of the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on financial transactions, procedures for insolvency and forcible termination within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u96	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present to you the content of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. This law is one of those laws that are part of a package of Slovenian exit strategies from the crisis situations we are in. The aim of this law is in particular to increase efficiency and improve the position of creditors in insolvency proceedings, and one of the important objectives is also to allow fresh capital to flow to companies in insolvency proceedings. If I present the sets of amendments contained in the proposed novels. The first set of amendments and additions is aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of insolvency proceedings and related enforcement procedures. It is a matter of determining the uniform real jurisdiction of district courts for all insolvency proceedings. This leads to a higher quality of decision-making in these procedures, which are quite specific in legal and other circumstances. The sole local competence of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana for all appeals procedures is a measure aimed at ensuring greater uniformity of judicial practice in insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings. The introduction of the powers of judicial assistants in simpler proceedings in these proceedings will allow judges to be burdened with certain tasks and will therefore be able to devote more time to the most difficult decisions in these proceedings. The rules for the electronic handling of courts and lawyers shall also be laid down and extended, thereby re-enacting the positive effects of automated procedures in these proceedings. The acceleration and rationalisation of the bankruptcy claims procedure is a further measure of greater efficiency and should ultimately also mention the acceleration and efficiency of the sale of the bankruptcy assets of the insolvency debtor. Another set of measures goes in the direction of ensuring to an honest entrepreneur or to a private person that, even within insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, he may reopen and reopen the activity as a sole entrepreneur or private. Of course, such an option is possible only under certain, rather harsh conditions and under the supervision of the court and the bankruptcy manager. The position of creditors and of the creditor board is also improving as the creditor board has more opportunities to convene meetings of the creditor committee. In determining the place, by agreement of all creditors, it may also designate a place outside the seat of the court where the proceedings take place. With the aim of greater professionalization and professional competence, as well as greater and better supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, the novel's proposal introduces a number of innovations in organising the work of bankruptcy managers. The first and most important such novelty is the introduction of a Chamber of Managers, which will have important responsibilities to ensure better quality of work for managers. It is the duty of the Chamber to provide continuous education for managers. It is the duty to adopt a code of good practice and it is the duty of managers to recommend the implementation of these good practices. The detailed and new rules on the disciplinary liability of bankruptcy managers, which will be decided by the Commissions in the first and second stages, in which the majority of members will have judges and not insolvency administrators, thus ensuring greater impartiality and objectivity of decision-making in these proceedings. The current arrangements for appointing managers shall be maintained in accordance with the order of procedure, with the exception that the insolvency of major legal persons will only be granted to those managers who have two years of experience in the performance of the insolvency manager. It is also clearly set out in the proposed amendment, which services can be charged to external operators and which services the bankruptcy manager must pay himself out of its prize [[...]] [[warning sign.]] I'll get it for my job. [[...]] This, of course, is followed by greater transparency and also greater cost-effectiveness of such procedures. Finally, let me mention two other important things: this is the possibility of reaching fresh capital to enterprises that are in insolvency proceedings. There the owners, or the board of directors or the board of creditors, have the possibility to sign the recapitalisation and thus enable the payment of fresh capital for non-owners as well. This solves the financial situation of the company. Finally, let me mention that the country deletes from the list of priority claims of unpaid tax in a period of one year. This is in order to allow for a greater amount of bankruptcy and therefore more resources for creditors engaged in bankruptcy proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to submit the report to the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered this law at its 19th meeting, on 27 May 2010. The government, of course, intervened in the procedure. However, we had the following documents available: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the letter of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the letter of the HKS Sicura Creditors' Association. The representative of the proposer, the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, stated in the supplementary explanation the things we have actually heard, and if you allow me, I would not repeat them. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups in the proposal for amendments to the Committee. The representative of the Council of State, the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, said that the competent commission of the Council of State was in favour of the law. Representative of the Council of Justice, Mag. Dara Novak Rajšek said that the Council of Justice gives a positive opinion on the proposed law. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry or its representative Pavel Suhadolnik said that the proposed law supports, although it does not solve all problems of small entrepreneurship. The representative of Sicura, Mr Cloud, said that the proposed law in no way improves the position of creditors, i.e. those to whom insolvency proceedings were actually intended. He pointed out that the creditor committee, as the elected representative body of creditors under the current law, no longer had an insight into the entire insolvency proceedings and was therefore in an unequal position compared to the bankruptcy manager. Members and members of the committee supported the proposed law in principle in the debate, and the opposition Members expressed fear that the proposed establishment of the Chamber of Governors would actually improve only their position and the possibility of mutual protection, particularly in disciplinary procedures, which has also happened several times in recent years, at least in the case of other chambers. The Committee has adopted coalition amendments – if I may, I would not list them, which are many of them – but it has not accepted the amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups, or they have become irrelevant. The Committee also adopted two amendments to Articles 27 and 94 and voted in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure on all articles of the law together and adopted them. However, the proposed text of the law is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have been waiting for a long time for a bill before us in the parliamentary bench. In the government’s exit strategy, this law is defined as one of the measures needed to revive and stimulate economic activity and growth. The government itself says that there have been debates and reflections in public since the middle of last year that some changes have to be made in the area of bankruptcy in the light of crisis situations. Unfortunately, for most government measures, not only that, it is considered too slow to resolve the approach. Indeed, the question is whether every measure really needs so much thought and, above all, time from detection to solving the problem. In preparing the resolution of this law, the applicant has included the widest possible round of all those to whom bankruptcy proceedings relate in one way or another. As early as October 2009, the Minister appointed a special mixed working group, which included both representatives of the courts and representatives of bankruptcy managers, representatives of the economy, chambers, craftsmen, economics, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, academic experts and so on. The task of the working group was to examine in particular four sets of issues: possibilities for greater efficiency in insolvency proceedings, the issue of solving healthy cores, the adequacy of the regime regarding the position of creditors and the appropriateness of managing the position of managers in insolvency proceedings. An expert consultation was also organized and carried out. The working group also met specifically with representatives who were not members of the working group. That we will not only criticise at all times, but also commend such an approach by the proposer in this place. Thus, to a large extent, a proposal for amendments to the law is well and properly prepared before us. In the debate on the Committee, however, we have noted some comments, particularly the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, which perceives problems which the proposal of the novel does not solve. This is the position of a self-employed entrepreneur in the event of bankruptcy when the issue of the reasons why the insolvency of an independent entrepreneur is treated differently than the bankruptcy of an economic company is raised. Second, the inappropriate regulation of the position of a small creditor in the enforcement procedures has been exposed. We believe that these two issues need to be resolved soon with a new amendment to the law. Now to the chamber. The strategy for the establishment and functioning of the Chambers in the Republic of Slovenia is completely inconsistent and inconsistent. We can say that first. However, if we go to look at the concrete solution proposed in this case, it becomes clear quickly that the proposed solution to the conduct of disciplinary procedures will not bear fruit. The crow does not simply rule out the eyes and consciously create an arrangement where we already know in advance that the disciplinary authority will only be a cover to justify such or other violations, and we will never see any action against the members of the chamber. Even if we have in mind the fact that it is all a little less than a hundred people who will be members of this Chamber. Therefore, we will support the amendment proposal in the Group of Members, which, if not the other, gives us at least an opportunity to think further about the regulation of this area. We will also support the law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! The DeSUS Group will contribute to the adoption of the amendment of this Act. We are aware that there are a lot of changes to the basic law, but this is an extremely important area, as it regulates the area of forced settlement and bankruptcy, where it is essential to close these procedures as quickly as possible with a view to protecting the rights of all creditors and, of course, the debtor. The proposed amendment, in the opinion of DeSUS Members, aims at a more efficient insolvency procedure. This implies changes in the direction of determining the uniform real jurisdiction of the courts, the uniform local jurisdiction in the appeals proceedings, the introduction of judicial assistants, the introduction of electronic transactions between courts, administrators and lawyers, changes in the direction of acceleration and increase in the effectiveness of the sale of the insolvency representative's assets and others. The question before us is: does the novel mean an improvement in the position of creditors, i.e. those to whom insolvency proceedings are actually intended. First of all, there are cases where the insolvency debtor is no longer able to pay even minimum wages to workers and associated taxes and contributions charged to the payer. In the context of the economic crisis, these situations pose a serious threat to the existence of a minimum of employees and the protection of the rights of the latter has been decisive in our decision to support this novel, as we in our Group have assessed that the proposed changes follow this objective, i.e. more efficient and faster action, as well as the protection of creditors, particularly workers. The financial crisis in Slovenia continues to show severe claws and while businesses fail and there is no wage left for workers, bankruptcy managers collect incredible amounts. Therefore, a proposal towards greater professionalisation, professional competence of managers and a clear definition of which services are included in the manager's award is welcome. At the time of reading the novel, and these were determined by DeSUS Members, we initially had doubts about the regulation that the State would no longer be a priority creditor, as it proposes to delete the collection of taxes for the last year prior to the start of the insolvency procedure as a priority claim, and only in the direction of the stability of public finances. However, our concern has quickly softened, as this amendment is proposed to give priority to those claims which ensure the existence of beneficiaries in the first place of the workers. In short, in our Group of Members, we support the proposed amendments and we will vote accordingly, as our final assessment is that the proposed solutions constitute a direction that focuses on the interests of creditors who become superior to the interests of owners. And that is crucial in our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u104	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, after a thorough examination of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, which brings very broad changes, we decided not to support the bill. Certain changes are undoubtedly welcome and necessary, good solutions to the possibility of greater efficiency due to insolvency as well as the proposed arrangements for the resolution of healthy kernels. However, the proposed arrangements, both the position of creditors and managers in insolvency proceedings, are totally inadequate. The latter, however, are those areas which, according to the Slovenian National Party Group, would require the greatest changes. The proposed amendment does not improve the position of creditors in any way, which is totally incomprehensible, as insolvency proceedings are actually intended for them and for the insurance of their claims, which in most cases are not fully paid. Furthermore, there are a number of anomalies in the bill regarding the regulation of the situation of bankruptcy managers. In order to avoid doubt as to their competence, compulsory education from a legal or economic perspective has been prescribed for them so far. The subject novelty deleted the condition of the education by explaining that the authorisation manager must carry out a demanding professional examination, including the verification of the legal and economic knowledge necessary for the successful task performed in insolvency proceedings, and therefore the type of pre-education, the restriction only to higher education of a legal or economic nature, does not make sense. In the Slovenian National Party Group, for example, we do not imagine how the philosopher will successfully lead the bankruptcy process. Furthermore, so far there has been a restriction that one bankruptcy manager may perform tasks in a maximum of five district courts. Now this completely appropriate restriction is deleted and the bankruptcy manager can resume tasks in all district courts in the country. The amendment in question does not understand the changes which, on the one hand, want to regulate the reform of bankruptcy managers so that there will be no abuse in the future, and to this end they introduce disciplinary commissions. Compulsory membership in the Chamber and so on, but on the other hand, solutions that have so far proved to be good and problematic are being deleted. I would like to point out that, in the Slovenian National Party's Group, we are certainly committed to changing the situation of bankruptcy managers, which we have repeatedly warned about, but not with changes that will cause new problems. And that's what the novelty of the subject is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, as the number of bankruptcy proceedings is increasing due to the crisis and measures are needed to revive and stimulate economic activity. In October 2009, the Minister of Justice appointed a special working group, which, having regard to the comments of interested groups and individuals, considered and examined the possibility of making insolvency procedures more effective, the problem of solving healthy cores, and the appropriateness of regulating the situation of creditors and managers in these procedures, and prepared a starting point for the proposed law which introduces the following amendments. Firstly, the determination of measures to increase the effectiveness of insolvency proceedings and related enforcement procedures. The uniform effective jurisdiction of the district courts for all insolvency proceedings and the uniform local jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana for all appeals proceedings shall be determined and the powers given in these proceedings shall also be conferred on the assistant judges. The obligation to operate electronically with bankruptcy managers extends also to lawyers. Following the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure, the sale and redemption of the entire property of the bankruptcy debtor will be carried out in bankruptcy proceedings and the enforcement procedures should therefore be stopped. Speeding up and rationalising the insolvency proceedings, accelerating and increasing the effectiveness of the sale of the insolvency debtor's assets. Secondly, the establishment of legal frameworks allowing a new start to the individual in spite of the insolvency proceedings. The new provisions will allow the entrepreneur or the private party on whom the insolvency proceedings are initiated to start again under the supervision of the court and the bankruptcy manager, provided that the bankruptcy has not resulted on purpose and that it can be estimated that he will operate without loss. Thirdly, the regulation of the position of creditors and the Board of Trustees in insolvency proceedings. The seat of the meeting of the Board of Trustees may also be located outside the seat of the Court if all creditors agree. The administrator and the Board of Auditors shall be granted the right to appeal against the decision of the court, to object to the request of the Board of Auditors and to an exceptional report. Fourthly, professionalization and professional competence of managers and supervision of them. The introduction of a Chamber of Fusion Managers, which will provide continuous education for bankruptcy managers and supervise their work. Appointment of bankruptcy managers in a predetermined order with a new criterion of two-year experience for the conduct of insolvency proceedings of large companies. It is clear which service the bankruptcy manager will be allowed to notify as costs of the procedure which he will be obliged to bear on his own. Temporary suspension of the administrator if a criminal offence committed in connection with the performance of his duties is brought against him. Fifthly, the possibility of a fresh capital injection into insolvency companies. In the event that the shareholders or shareholders of the insolvency company have not made an increase in the share capital with new investments, even though this would eliminate the causes of insolvency, the management or the board of creditors will be able to take a decision on the increase in the share capital of the insolvency company with new investments that can also be paid by new investors. Sixth, regulation of the effects of insolvency proceedings on the settlement of qualified financial contracts. For reasons of legal certainty and predictability, specific rules on the effects of insolvency proceedings on the levelling of these contracts are proposed. It is proposed to tighten the claim netting ban. Week, the removal of claims owed to the debtor by the State from the list of priority claims. The priority should be given to those claims which mean that beneficiaries exist, which means that workers have the advantage in particular. Since these measures and changes are good, we will support the bill in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. We estimate that the Ministry of Justice has carried out a broad debate and has prepared a proposal for amendments that have been made in both the professional public and the Internal Policy Committee meeting with a relatively broad consensus to support the law, at least in the main amendments. Amendments to the law will, in the opinion of the proposer and also in our opinion, increase the effectiveness of procedures when insolvency proceedings and related procedures such as bankruptcy and forced settlement occur. It is worth noting that the law follows some of the objectives that include greater efficiency of procedures, especially in favour of creditors. We also support provisions stressing the responsibility of bankruptcy managers and the conduct of the bankruptcy process itself in the direction of protection and for the benefit of creditors involved in bankruptcy proceedings. However, the situation of smaller entrepreneurs remains open, where the problem of insolvency is extremely large. Whether 96, 97% or some percent more or less, the problem is comprehensive and hinders the possibility of free initiative and the development of activities at all. The position of smaller entrepreneurs and even craftsmen is fully demonstrated to us now that large construction workers are in trouble, but the most difficult are subcontractors who have actually done their work and thus the mission, and the payments due to the insolence of large subscribers are unfortunately not. It was important to discuss the position and role of the Chamber of Managers. It should be pointed out that in doing so it is likely that a debate should be held on all assembly associations and not only on a partial basis on one which we are also establishing by this law. When discussing the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we decided on a committee to support the solutions proposed by the bill-maker, namely the Government. Thus, we will not support the amendment tabled for second reading at this assembly in the Group of Social Democrats. The current amendments to the law should be seen and taken into account in a series of amendments to the laws adopted by the National Assembly, the Government or the Ministry. However, the aim must be to establish a financial-debt discipline that will address the causes of insolvency in the long term and, consequently, ensure that the company is remunerated in the short and long term. And so, of course, it is with this content and the content of one law that we are going to adopt today – it is actually part of the exit strategy law. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I didn't make a reminder myself, because I've just been working with this stuff for so long that I just know it. See, the proposal for bankruptcy law, if simplified and somewhat simplified, brings quite a few good things, especially the fact that bankruptcy complaints will be brought, bankruptcy proceedings will be decided by the Higher Court in Ljubljana. The past has shown that there is a major or very large anarchy in the lower courts in this area, that some regulations do not take into account that they are misinterpreted in order to be abolished, etc. In short, this part is totally fine with us. However, we will not support the law and there are many reasons for it. The underlying reason is in the following. Look, the Ministry's proposed law is re-establishing, or we'll say again, one cartel. In addition to the cartel of lawyers, in addition to the cartel of notaries and others, the minister creates a cartel of bankruptcy managers with this law. But who are the bankruptcy managers, and we know about it. We'll talk about this later. In fact, establish a so-called Chamber of Fusion Managers. See how many bankruptcy managers there are in Slovenia? The bankruptcy managers are slightly over 90 registered and operating for a slightly larger bus. So, about 60. These people will therefore decide their own destiny, in particular from the point of view of disciplinary procedures, where they will decide on their own, despite the fact that the Ministry of Amendments has slightly eased and the matter has been rectified. In short, confusion of responsibility. You know exactly what happened in the Nekrep case and what the competent institutions found, and they said that the chamber, in that case a doctor, was protecting itself cartelly. Today, the coalition is a law under which the same solution is applied and brought about for bankruptcy managers. So they will themselves be the purpose, so they will judge themselves in disciplinary proceedings, make some other important decisions, and we can probably expect the prices to be set — what is not. That's the first thing. In short, we object, we absolutely oppose the so-called Chamber of Fusion Managers, because it is a pocket-loading cartel and nothing else. The next thing, which, at least to me personally and also to the Group of Members, is extraordinary not to say surprise, even hurt. The Social Democrats-led coalition, which is considered a social one, is extremely one of their Members, who is also here, on our proposal – our proposal was the following: bankruptcy managers, some such amendments we have prepared, cannot give business to external subcontractors, companies in which they own themselves. Look, the bankruptcy manager, Elana, for administrative and technical business, made a deal with his company himself, and he put EUR 172 thousand in his pocket. With this amendment, we wanted to prevent this and gave the SDS Group's amendment that the bankruptcy manager cannot do business with subcontractors, if I say so, or with companies whose owner or relatives he or she owns. I personally expected the colleagues of the Social Democrats socially, democratically, for the worker, for the little person – because nobody listens to me – to support this amendment. They didn't support him. Can you imagine? No, we allow bankruptcy managers to do business with themselves and their own companies and fill their pockets. Thank you so much for the law! And thank you very much, and bring it back sometime, and we will also reject it, at least in our Group of Members. And there's something else to conclude. So far, bankruptcy managers, anyone can be a bankruptcy manager who takes a course instead of being an economist. And that's why one of Moore's biggest bankruptcys is led by a geography teacher. Two days ago, I was talking to my neighbor, who led the Utok Kamnik bankruptcy 10 years ago — one of the more difficult, larger bankruptcys, which is a lot of property — many people went on the road in that bankruptcy. And how much did he get paid? He managed it for less than two years, or more than a year, and was paid 2,000 euros a month. What are the bankruptcy awards today, you know! Already legally determined 100,000 euros gross, already legally determined. Just what they put in their pocket in other ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposed law is good, but above all it seems important to us that the law is prepared in cooperation with a wide range of participants. The changes will lead to greater efficiency of procedures and will also benefit creditors. Let me just list the most important novelties of the law. The first is the unloading of judges and the expansion of electronic commerce in insolvency proceedings, which will result in faster and simpler claims trials. The next change is that if owners do not want to increase the capital of insolvency companies, creditors will be able to do so. The responsibility of bankruptcy managers will also be greater and the rules for awards will be clearer. In repaying the company's debts in bankruptcy, they will not have the advantage of unpaid taxes, but rather of liabilities to employees. It's just a few of the major novelties brought by the law. The Novela also introduces a chamber of managers that will make them better, more professional, more efficient. And that is how those who are good at it and who are doing such a work will deal with forced settlement. All of this will lead to much faster procedures. The introduction of the Chamber of Managers will provide continuous education for managers, adopt a code of good business practice and make recommendations to managers for the enforcement of good business practice, as well as the Ministry of Justice will supervise managers. More important to us are the precise rules on the disciplinary responsibility of managers. We must not forget, however, that the crisis situation in which we are facing has led to an increase in the number of insolvency proceedings, so measures to revive and stimulate economic activity are still important. For all of this, we will really support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 June 2010. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Andrej Magajna has the word first. I am also informing you that the Secretary of State has applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I myself have been present as a member of the parental committee in the debate, I must say that I have listened to and started to wonder at a problem that I did not know. In the daily newspaper, I read about the amounts obtained by bankruptcy administrators by marriage, and at first I thought it was a typographical mistake. Three hundred thousand euros, say, like this amount, and at 30,000, I thought it couldn't be true — but it wasn't a typographical mistake! This reward system has a tradition, now we have a third amendment to the law, something is constantly improving, but in the concept of this issue remains. I must give recognition and welcome the efforts of the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, who has introduced many novelties and matters that improve the law, but still become quite controversial in the basic concept of the matter. As the bankruptcy manager performs his tasks, we can say that this is not his only activity. These are companies, independent entrepreneurs who, in addition to other activities, advisory, legal entities, carry out these tasks. In addition, when we read what total bankruptcy managers get in some process, it is interesting to know that at the same time they run more procedures, it is not just one procedure. Well, from the publicly available data, I've seen that one of the managers had one at a time in processing, and one can't believe it, 49 companies. How is that possible? On average, I've seen about 15 companies arrive at the same time. Indeed, the procedures are extremely demanding and difficult, and I do not mind that fair work and fair work should also be well paid. The problem is that, in addition to these awards that the bankruptcy manager receives, it also shows the costs. However, costs can be shown through other service companies that provide either accounting advice, general advice, tax advice and other service activities, while there is another problem. These bypass companies can even be managed by the bankruptcy manager himself and is the owner. This is said to be the bankruptcy process of bankruptcy, not only for the work of the bankruptcy manager, but for all the costs incurred. Of course, if the manager owns an advisory firm, he is interested in directing as much cost to his own company as possible and showing them here. Therefore, I was very surprised when we did not accept the amendment on the committee and I will read it so that the public will know, of course, if anyone writes or publishes: "The manager of the performance of individual services in relation to the management of tasks under this law must not surrender it to an entity in which he or his family member is a management member or a member of the supervisory authority." The most logical thing is not to be! This amendment was rejected on the committee. I don't understand that today. I can have my own explanation. We can go to all kinds of speculation about what's in the background. Actually, we need to know that there's a lot of money running through here, a lot of money. And where there's bad control, anything's possible. By rejecting this amendment, we have somehow legalised systemic corruption, which is an element of systemic corruption. I'm just gonna say it out loud, which is why I'm here, not to push this gray button. However, I will support the law or amendment of the law because, in the case of the previous one, it has a huge number of matters to support and improve. But it will also be necessary to change that famous proverb: the third one is happy to go. Obviously, there will be a fourth novel – and I hope that it will come on the agenda as soon as possible. It's interesting what happened on the board. In fact, the indent of the law was deleted which allowed the creditor committee the right to review the rules of procedure, the books and the entire documentation. The argument was about this: now each creditor will be searching for the work of the bankruptcy manager. That's not what this is about. It's a board of creditors who would have had a chance to intervene; and that's what we've already had in marriage. Another security guard we let go of. There was also a case out of the previous law, or another article in the first version, which was more eloquent, but not without meaning. "At the time of taking office, the administrator shall make a statement before the court that he will faithfully carry out his duty to seek to carry out the procedure without delay, with as little costs as possible and without abuse of rights and with a view to the best possible payment of creditors." It was said to be a declaration, but I don't know why it would be harmful if it was in the law. In a number of laws there are also such declaratory definitions. And so on. I will support the law for changes, but it needs to be said honestly, it's too limited, I'll just say, to the financial lobby of bankruptcy managers, who obviously have their botts among politicians. And what I'm going to say is version four, where we're actually going to stop and eliminate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. We are discussing the amendment to Article 25. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I'll continue where the predecessor ends and the call is lonely in the desert. In fact, bankruptcy administrators, those who are not always on the right side of legality, have their roots in politics. That was frankly said and I must bow to such transparency. The fact is that the history of the management of bankruptcy procedures teaches us that there has been a lot of problems in this area. Not only wrong, we have bad bankruptcy legislation. Therefore, whenever this legislation is amended, I expect with some hope that such a novelty will be put on the table, which will allow transparent management of bankruptcy procedures that will ensure the maximum payment of creditors and which will also allow for some further activity of the company in bankruptcy, which often has a healthy core. Often, this has not been respected. The bankruptcy proceedings were quite a number of times for managers of questionable ethical and business qualities. And the current novel, and also Article 25, is not perfect. I do not know how the entire coalition to this article, which we have tabled, is defined, but I hope that it will receive unanimous support. This is an article which means that, at the time of a bankruptcy manager, it is placed on the blacklist of bankruptcy managers as soon as it is found that he is in some criminal procedure because he has done something wrong. As has been said, these bankruptcy managers usually do a whole bunch of bankruptcys. This is in itself conditional: if he has sinned in one procedure, he is unfit to conduct any procedure, I suppose this is clear. And it must come, although you do not use a blacklist of managers here, I do not know this term – because in fact it should not be in the position of insolvency management someone who has sinned against positive legislation. But of course, in all proceedings, the court must immediately resolve it, and it is right to prescribe such a legal norm in the law, because courts that impose bankruptcy administrators are not often immune to illegal practices. Remember the Pompa affair; a few days ago I read that right now in Maribor there was one of the hearings or the first hearings. This is the bankruptcy of the Darkness – strong fraud, lending money from bankruptcy. All of this was for some accounts, so far no one's responsible. As a result, the President of the Court resigned because the media had done their part at the time, and here too we discussed and could not be hidden. Those bankruptcy managers ran a whole bunch of procedures. Of course, it was not possible to postpone both in that and in others, but because it became clear that this was a set from court to governors, the president of the Maribor court subsequently resigned. As a result, after taking office as minister, this affair was still pending, Minister Sturm withdrew his license. Only a few years from now. The previous ministers from your option, of course, did not do so. There is no political will for these procedures to be conducted transparently. The following article, it is said, Article 27 of this Chamber of Managers is going in the opposite direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to write such provisions and laws as will be clear, which will not allow abuse. However, if a decree is made in writing a law that does not bind a court, which does not oblige anyone – how can creditors or citizens expect a fair trial?Oh, my God! Is there not enough bad experience in these bankruptcy procedures? 15, 20 years of bankruptcy proceedings are under way, and justice is unable to make a law that would prevent such conduct and all the opposition's amendments going in a positive direction are also rejected, and the front is rejected. The only thing to think about is that there are still links that are studying where this strong money is going to go down We have heard from two mouths today and we know that we have discussed this in detail on the committee, but an amendment has been rejected on the committee to prevent the bankruptcy manager from giving himself strong money in his own pocket. The government isn't sensitive to that. It is true that the names of those managers are in some way symbolically linked to, say, the party of the Social Democrats and its predecessor in a symbolic way. But that's no reason not to make a law that prevents fraud. And these dedicated names, ladies and gentlemen, from the Justice Ministry, must not rule on the content of the law. Then people, citizens, we Members cannot trust you. If they have more power than some names that are responsible for making some very rich at the expense of the stings of those who have lost everything, and if they decide whether these centres of power are so powerful that they manage the justice ministry — where does this lead us?Oh, my God! Well, I hope you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Yes, I would ask all the debaters, from the first, second and all who will report to discuss the amendment to Article 25, and you discussed almost everything else, but I did not restrict you. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary, also spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've put me in a bit of trouble because I wanted to answer some of those claims that were made, and the truth about love is not related to Article 25. So I'll start with Article 25. Article 25 refers to the fact that the bankruptcy manager, who, in criminal proceedings for an act he has committed in connection with the exercise of his activity, is to be placed on a blacklist of some kind and that a new case is no longer assigned to him. Of course, I can only agree with that. Such an amendment has already been adopted on the Committee. If you look at the contents of Article 112, which has been amended by Amendment 25, then you will see that in the second paragraph it states that the Minister responsible for justice must suspend the appointment of the bankruptcy manager for new cases when he finds himself in such proceedings. However, paragraph 8 states that the court must resolve the bankruptcy manager in all other proceedings if it is found in criminal proceedings. Thus, the provision that a bankruptcy manager who is in criminal proceedings for suspicion of misappropriating his position as a bankruptcy manager may no longer play the role of bankruptcy manager in any proceedings until the issue of the offence is decided is already contained in the amendment or already contained in an article adopted on the Committee. For this reason, the adoption of the amendment to Article 25 would be a repetition of what is already enshrined in the law. The President, if you'll allow me to briefly answer some of the allegations that the cartel is a chamber, that there are connected persons and that the law allows them to pay prizes or expenses, and that the creditor committee does not have access to all the documentation; all of this has been said. I think there's some things I need to explain. I believe that we will continue to talk a lot, so perhaps not in this work, but I would like to say what is definitely not true that the law would stipulate that it is possible to pay the 100,000 euro prizes. That's not true. The Regulation limits the level of prizes and the maximum possible prize is €80,000 for all tasks carried out by the bankruptcy manager. We talked a lot about this at a board meeting, at one of the four emergency emergency meetings where we were dealing with the issue of awards to the bankruptcy manager, and I do not think it is right to deceive, but also needless to repeat what has already been said. As far as the amendment is concerned, the government or coalition is supposed to somehow prefer that bankruptcy managers broadcast tasks to their family members or their own companies, and in this way somehow secretly serve to tell the following. This amendment was indeed not accepted, but was not accepted because something else was written in this amendment. This amendment was made up of two parts, in the first part of which he spoke of the fact that the awards to bankruptcy managers were to be awarded by some discretion on the part of the courts, in view of the complexity and complexity of the proceedings. The idea may not be a bad idea in itself, but in view of the experience we have in awarding awards to bankruptcy managers, we firmly believe at the Justice Department that leaving some discretion to the courts is not only an unorthodox but also opening the door to new discussions on the injustice or eligibility of individual awards on a particular bankruptcy basis. This amendment could not be accepted. This second part of this amendment, which relates to a certain prohibition on the granting of individual tasks or parts by the bankruptcy manager to related companies, i.e. to his companies or to the companies of his fellow companies, is, of course, good and acceptable on the very idea. However, it must be said that this article could no longer be amended because the amendment was not adopted and the procedural reasons did not allow it, but it is not an insurmountable matter. In fact, in the Rules on the award of awards adopted by the Minister of Justice, this situation will be given special attention. In any event, the Regulation will have to be aligned with these provisions and amendments that we are adopting today and when these amendments are introduced in the Regulation, we will also pay particular attention to limiting the possibility of bankruptcy managers giving individual tasks to connected legal persons or connected persons with whom they are related or otherwise. Here it is perfectly agreed that greater transparency must be ensured. As I've said before, there's no need to settle this with the law itself. With regard to the creditor committee and the obvious, if we somehow do not have a hearing for the creditor committee, it must be said that it was precisely on the proposal of the creditor association that a provision was proposed that the creditor committee could be invoked elsewhere. This is because of lower costs to members of the board of creditors, that they do not have to drive to some remote location, but to those where it is most opportunistic. However, as regards access to documentation, matters are not as simple as they appear. Indeed, the entire debtor's documentation often also refers to documentation relating to various business secrets, perhaps to any patents, what industrial secrets and incorrectness would be for members of the creditor's committee who are less than all creditors. In fact, the members of the Board of Trust may be only nine, but the creditors may be many and may be different legal persons, competitors or cooperatives and it is incorrect to allow the review of the entire dossier without any supervision, as this could result in the equal treatment of individual creditors vis-à-vis other creditors who are not members of the Board of Trust. So much for a little while. I wouldn't be talking about the chamber right now, because I'm sure we're going back to that, and it's really not related to Article 25. However, if necessary, I will make a special statement to the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you. Someone else wants to talk about 25. Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The implementation of the Secretary of State must be responded to. He rightly said that the prohibition of other proceedings was already partially contained in Article 112, paragraph 8, which is part of the new Article 25. However, we have added a supplement which says, "an appeal against a decision by the court to order the appointment of the manager and the appointment of a new manager, in the reasonable application of the first paragraph of Article 116 of this Act, does not hold its enforcement". This is an important addition. Because you know they know how to drag these legal circles with complaints forever and avoid all kinds of things. And that, apparently, stinks to the coalition. That's what we say. We've done something for a better look, but we don't want it all to be. More importantly, what the Secretary of State said was why the opposition's amendment, which provides for the prohibition of remittances, was rejected. The Secretary of State says that because he gave discretion to the courts in the first part, that was unacceptable. Yes, people of God, what are we doing in this house for the first time?? If the law is in the process, and you're acting as if you don't know that an amendment can be adopted and the next amendment can be tabled in the second reading today, the coalition could put it in line with what's too much. Take that side away. I really didn't expect that kind of argument. For the last time, if it were the political will to do so, I would be able to do so today, if I were to submit this on the discretionary right of the courts, that we should shorten, otherwise settle. There was just no political will. Those who continue to do so have the strength to direct strong money out of bankruptcy proceedings. And we know that there is a constant political interest in the background, because those are also the benefactors of those parties who enable them to transfer money from bankruptcy. They know how to get better, they know how to do commercials for certain customers, and so on. Don't say he couldn't be supported because there was too much in one part of the amendment! If this were the third treatment, such an argument would be on the spot, in this episodeal role as it was on the parental committee, and it would not be. Not at all. However, I am pleased that the Secretary of State, with such arguments, must reject the opposition's arguments, with such arguments that are not arguments at this stage, and in fact suggest that it is under the strong pressure of these lobbies behind such aspirations. I believe that the Secretary of State in no government is in charge, that the political will of the parties and the centres of power is ahead of him and that he tells him what to do. It's just, then you defend yourself either with silence or with more skill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All the predecessors have gone a little crazy, and I guess I'll be alone, so I hope you'll understand. I have no reason not to believe the stories and arguments underlying the irregularities or activities in order to improve the situation in the area of bankruptcy procedures, both Mr Gorenak, Cloud and Mr Škrlec's Secretary of State. As we have all found, in the area of insolvency, i.e. bankruptcy and other areas, great confusion, which all together alerts us to the abuses and irregularities of this area, the final result of which is always the injury of the bankruptcy mass and of course also the creditors. While the Ministry is talking about positive changes, they have apparently "took" with delayed effects. As we have heard, there have been many irregularities that seem to stand out and no one in the country of law is disturbed because that is the way it is — if we have selective views of mistakes or crimes that happen to everyone. In the case of Vidma - Krske, the Court awarded 440 thousand euros, and then forgot that the prize of 130 thousand euros had already been paid, as the higher court found, and concluded that this was the state of the spirit in the country. And if I mention the irregularity that has been established: the Court of First Instance has acted wrongly, EUR 600,000 has been paid, the appeal is no longer possible because the appeal deadlines are outdated. Well, it's like someone made a mistake, but the Ministry didn't get it wrong. As we see, this is a mistake which should not be overlooked by the Kosovo Commission, the Ministry and the Defence, as it would expect all procedures to be followed, especially for the reason that it has been alerted to irregularities in this area for years. To say that the Ministry of Justice is not an investigative body or law enforcement body is true, but it is under Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act that criminal proceedings should be instituted or criminalised, but it has not done so. It draws attention to the irregularities of managers and there is no discussion of the discharges of managers, although the Ministry has the opportunity and is responsible for the withdrawal and authorisation of managers. Of course, I cannot go beyond the sentence that Mr Cloud has said that there are even such phenomena when a particular bankruptcy judge tells the creditors on their question that he will never dismiss the manager, regardless of the weight of your perceptions and actions. This certainly raises doubts about the legality of the court or judges, to whom everything is permitted, to do even unlawfully, to make mistakes, which no one is sanctioning. Does immunity and a permanent mandate really apply only to privileged persons who cannot live with such legal rules, constitutions, honesty and common sense. The Kosovo Commission was reminded of the irregularities committed, which were also detected by the higher court, but gentlemen, when they examined the state of the spirit well, did not detect signs of corruption. In May 2009, there will be changes in the area where Article 499(3) of the Law is deleted, apparently in order for old bankruptcys to take place before 1. Ten. 2008, using a new Regulation, which is not compatible. And what happened was what was expected of the bankruptcy managers' awards to jump. This damaged there Maribor, Elan Begunje, Videm – Krško and could still be listed. The figure has risen to as much as EUR 134 000 in June. But the minister claimed that he had everything under control. And it happens that the minister, through the media, alerts the court and the bankruptcy administrators to the measures that he will start by triggering the plasma payout. In eight working days, it was resolved in the courts for payment in favour of bankruptcy managers by up to EUR 2 million 300,000. This is what the whole of Slovenia has detected, only those who have been paid for their legality and persecution have not registered. In particular, Kosovo should be suspected by the Commission that something is going seriously wrong. The workers have been hanged as they have many times. Only the rich and influential have been taken care of, and the Paradise will be covered by social transfers. Mr Škrlec said in one sentence what I say all along; we are only people, and this also applies to judges. That's right. But when you have authority, you also have responsibility. And you have to be aware of that. Especially should we be aware of those who write judgments to others. It is clarified that there is no uniform case law, so that it is implemented according to the number of higher courts, so that all participants involved in the proceedings are in an unequal position. As a result, a working group will be set up to prepare amendments to the bankruptcy law. Local competence will be laid down for the procedures to be submitted in Ljubljana. The judiciary is aware of the unanimity of the work and the diverse interpretations of the legal basis. They also acknowledge that unanimity of practice occurs in other areas of the trial. Obviously, the time has come for errors to be recognised, to be corrected in customs, and to correct in legislation what is bad for all citizens of Slovenia. I'll support Amanda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I am returning because some things have also been about my previous implementation. Look, bankruptcy and bankruptcy in general is a tragedy for both owners, even though there are speculations that some bought these companies, probably because of money laundering. See, the basic objective was to keep as much money as possible for creditors, so that this work would be as rational as possible. The Ministry limited the above amounts to bankruptcy awards. This is a positive measure, but a huge amount of money is lost right through service companies. I don't have this data, but maybe there is: how much remains in this bankruptcy mass for these poor creditors who are waiting for the payments? Usually these data are percentages when what's left is shared. The bankruptcy mass is lost directly through these service activities. If the bankruptcy manager has 15, 30 companies, he needs service companies. Here, however, the law should set clear limits when we can really talk about systemic corruption without them. This is said to be the case, the manager should not do business to companies whose owner or family members he owns. I think that's self-inflicted. We heard that this might be resolved in the rules of procedure. Nice! This forecast sounds good, but all you need to know is that there are lawyers here that a violation of the rule of law is a violation of the law. This should be limited in the law and stated that such a thing is not possible at all. I am afraid that this will continue and that the bankruptcy mass through these service companies will actually be lost and the law is intended for bankruptcy managers. I hope that this will be resolved in the next paper, in the new procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I am reopening the possibility of applying for a debate. We are talking about Article 25 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Someone would say, finally, there has been a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. However, when we take a strong look at this proposal, at this change, we see that there is really nothing positive or rigorous about what is going on. There's no talk of forced settlement. My opinion or the opinion of economic operators on forced settlement is that you give two years of hope to someone to destroy or steal money from an economic society; it is not so everywhere, but in most cases it is. I can tell you the case that happened. There was a huge giant purchased by 18 companies through the consortium. These 18 companies bought this giant, and with this money, the Slovenian Development Company set up a new, smaller company, which was re-elected by some who were close, and now this company is not working. It would have been better if these 18 companies sold this giant for one euro. Believe me, it'd be better. But it was the money laundering interest of these people, these bankruptcy managers. With the amendments to this bill we have proposed at least partial protection of certain things, but you strictly reject them. I don't know what you're afraid of. Are you afraid of some individuals, 90 bankruptcy managers, who are actually operating on this state property or the property of certain businesses, entrepreneurs? There is no indication of how long these bankruptcys should take. You know for yourself that bankruptcys can last ten years or more. The bankruptcy managers have an interest in drawing bankruptcy for so long. Why don't you limit it? Believe that the bankruptcy of a company can be completed within a maximum of two years, but not to drag on for ten years or more. These are important things that need to be written into the law and actually limit the actions of bankruptcy managers. And who could be the bankruptcy managers? What are the purposes of these bankruptcy managers? These are all questions that I do not see in this amendment of the law you are proposing. It would also be very positive if, in at least one article, there was a reference to what happened to that entrepreneur with that company's director who ran the company that brought this company to bankruptcy. Let's take an example from abroad here, not to take an example abroad in the lame things, but here, where there's an important thing, you don't follow a foreign view of how they've got these things handled elsewhere. The latter is closed today, goes bankrupt and another person is already in business with this company. People, employees, don't even know that the company went bankrupt, but here we're maiming and blindfolding. I don't know! I believe it's not easy to make a law, I believe, but why do we want to force the law with two, three modifications into life, but not completely, as it should be. 'Cause we're not gonna do anything smart with that. The same things will continue to happen, no one will be responsible for any matter; as it is called, "the train takes away and the passengers remain on the platform". I also stress this once again – the establishment of a chamber of bankruptcy managers. You know, logic is the abolition of chambers, not the establishment of chambers, but even a chamber, where there is mandatory membership, then it starts to collect the apparatus of people who are themselves meant to be paid by someone. Who? Taxpayers again. Us taxpayers. I don't know why we're going into this system. Chambers have to live on their own, they have to be effective to actually finance themselves, not to be financed by people who actually have none of these chambers. If so, it must be voluntary membership, not compulsory membership, etc. Personally, I am sure that this law is not good, that this law must be regulated, indeed, as I have made some suggestions to you, and will then shine a light in this law. As long as it's not like that, there's no way I can support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 27 and the SDS amendment to this Article. However, since this amendment is linked to the amendments to Articles 94 and 96, I am putting to the debate all three articles and all three amendments. I am opening an application for discussion on all three articles and amendments to this Article. That's 27th, 94th, 96th. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much, again. We are on the key issue of this law and the key amendment. In fact, the establishment of a chamber of bankruptcy managers, which you now have in mind in your law, is such an anachronistic matter that it is clear to every blind person why it was necessary to do so. People are convinced by their basic honesty, ordinary people, that laws are always adopted for a good purpose, and I also want to be sure of that. I must say, some of the intentions of this change of law seemed to me to be going in the right direction, I can't say no. But the establishment of this Chamber of Fusion Managers is something that in the long run shows that fraud, error, illegality that will result from the proceedings will not be sanctioned and covered. I already mentioned this process in Maribor and the Pompe affair. And there were millions, and then I thought it was a brand, and the money was credited out of bankruptcy, and that money blew up forever. And these were connections from the court to bankruptcy managers — something for the power of dedicated people among the current bankruptcy managers. And if we had a chamber at the time, I'm sure that the chamber would have always defended that everything was all right, because it's perfectly logical that crows don't turn their eyes off. If you are introducing a legal regime with us 'kadia sudija sudija', and this is it, then you do not want transparency, you do not want bankruptcy managers to be led to the benefit of creditors and public interest. These corrupt administrators will logically be alone, just like all the chambers, when you give them another public function, your own bodies will be closed. And they'll be primarily immune to environmental remarks. Of course, each such body protects its own members, its own organisation until the last minute. That's the internal logic of all of this. On the other hand, why is this chamber necessary for 90 people who have this function in Slovenia? Why is there a need for a special chamber and all the money laundering? Why does the Ministry not want to perform the functions of supervision – the commission set up by the Ministry? You are probably counting on the public to say that the opposition wants the ministry – this is politics. This simple logic, which at first sight works, is what you follow. Perhaps we, too, are naive. Perhaps this disciplinary commission, which we now place in law, does not lead to a supervisory role. Perhaps we are still in the head of the previous minister, who, in fact, in the area of notary tariffs, of this Chamber of Lawyers – where the centres of power have not prevented, in the case of legal tariffs, for example – made a hugely positive for the public interest and for transparency and justice. As I was saying, at the time, in Pompa's case, he took the license to three bankruptcy managers. The current minister, with these strong prizes – when the bankruptcy manager charged EUR 172 000 to his other companies, no one acted and no one could act, but the minister could act and take his license and put it on an informal blacklist. You know what 172 grand is? To calculate it, it's eight superb cars, because I bought one of those in January, it's a big car. Eight superb cars to make people think they're right. This is a piece of the prize, but once again he charged himself on a regular basis. In bankruptcy proceedings I see – even higher sums. And now these irregularities, these anomalies, will be discussed by the chamber! And it is usually so that such conduct of one another, which is humanly understandable, but not according to legitimacy and legality, excuses, makes it possible to earn better, etc. And the Ministry supports this; not only does it support, it legalizes! And a coalition, of course. Everyone has to ask themselves where the interest is to work hard against public interest. There is much to be done against the fact that things in bankruptcy proceedings finally begin to run normally. There's a political interest back here, as I said before. If such strong sums can be scattered, they are placed in certain pockets, out of those pockets for free, someone who gives money to a political party for color, before what elections, etc. Here you very much point out this political interest that either public money or creditors' money will finance political parties, political procedures, etc. That's the autumn that's back here. There is no legal interest in this society that would say that there must be a chamber here. The Ministry, however, is the highest administrative, judicial body, cannot bring together the fund – the commission and the judges, etc. – which will be able to control the work of bankruptcy managers. And here we have ten sub-topics of this 120th article, how this control is being carried out, but such an expert committee, which consists of two judges, two professors and a fifth member, will do it better at least partially neutral, at least partially. I cannot say that total neutrality is possible, it will mostly be neutral, and it is significantly greater that it represents some public interest. No, you're against it. You're against, you're stubborn, you're going through the wall with your head because of the political interest that's in the back, and this political interest is, I must say, corrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Yes, I'm opening the application. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 27 in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that the transfer of powers in relation to the sanctioning of managers, as you have stated, from the Ministry of Justice at this time to the Board of Governors, is unfounded. And it also points to one clear point: that if this chamber of bankruptcy managers is formed as you imagined, then it will happen that these people will supervise themselves, which I do not think is very wise, smart and good. We all know that this is a closed organisation protecting the interests of its members and far from sanctioning irregularities. But above all, they protect their own members and then cover up their mistakes. I am convinced that, in the case of managers, such fear is even more justified because it is a small number of people under the table who know each other, who are also involved in matters and, of course, support each other. And here we will begin to see what we witnessed last year, in order to continue to pay enormous rewards to bankruptcy managers. I'm sorry. Once you get this legal, it's gonna start happening because you won't have any control. They'll have control of themselves. And that, the Secretary of State, is a major problem, and I think we should think clearly about this, not to see bankruptcy again or as it happened in the case of the bankruptcy of Videm - Krško. He had previously spoken to a colleague from the Slovenian National Party and pointed out this particular problem. I have also repeatedly pointed out to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice exactly how it is possible that bankruptcy managers, even during the economic and financial crisis, still receive such payments. However, in the case of the bankruptcy of Videm – Krško, there has been another serious problem; that is, the Court of First Instance has set a prize of EUR 440 000, but it is interesting that this Court of First Instance has forgotten that some more than EUR 130 000 has already been paid. In short, this is a little bit of a first-degree court forgotten, and if we do the sum total, let's figure out that the bankruptcy manager got, say, 600 thousand euros. This is serious stuff. 600 000 euros during the biggest economic crisis. I was already asking you, Mr. Shkrlec, and also Mr. Attorney General, Dr. Boštian Tratar, who did not complain about this. I asked him at the time because he was at the meeting, or he didn't say anything. I also asked you, there was no answer to that, why Mr Tratar, then in charge of bankruptcy proceedings, did not complain at the time. Because you need to know that the Justice Department was a trustee back then. I would like to have a clear answer to this question here. How is it possible that someone got not only 440,000 euros paid as a basis, let's say, 600,000 euros, because it was forgotten - I mean, interestingly, it was forgotten that an advance of 130 000 euros had already been paid! What kind of country do we live in? How is that possible? And now you're legislating a chamber of bankruptcy managers to oversee themselves. I don't think we need any further explanation, but the answer to what I asked before would be, however, I would like to have, given that I have already asked this answer or question several times, there was no answer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hands. Mr. Skrlec, did you want a word? Okay. Check-in is on. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u132	Say good-bye again! Chambers are also useful, we all know that, they are being established, different chambers. The key question is the question of competence – what are these chambers like? Everyone is aware of the debate surrounding the Medical Chamber, including in a tragic case where there was a suspicion that it was a cover-up, covering up of fellow residents, but I would not have judged it because I could have done something wrong. But the problem is that there are small chambers, chambers where everyone knows each other. Here is also an opportunity for other business-sharing discussions and we come to that rejected amendment that family members or that the manager cannot assign himself a business for service activity. These chambers may also be an opportunity for these divisions of business. Even if you accept the restrictions that you should not assign yourself to do business, through which, I will say again, you may lose the main bankruptcy mass. The problem with this allocation of funds from bankruptcy to service companies is not only that there is customerism, it is a problem to point out to itself, because these huge assets that drain from bankruptcy are actually awarded without public calls. The manager himself determines who he'll give the job to. Of course, if he's smart, he'll give it to himself. I do not condemn him as a man, but we can be very moralized only if the law permits it — and so it will be! The regulation will, of course, sanction and, in the end, the bankruptcy administrator will find that it is possible to pay a judge for a misdemeanour. I don't know, this should be clearly defined in the law. So, the problem of small chambers, which can do other things besides positive functions – mutual cooperation in concluding contracts, transferring the service activities of one manager to another, where the matter will be even more hidden. It may be a chamber, but let's give the authority to control outside this chamber. It may be professional supervision, but when it comes to the correctness of business, someone outside this lobby or circle should say, some kind of friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're talking about a set of amendments to the so-called chamber. With this set, we only want to pass on one matter if you have noticed correctly – to prevent the establishment of a chamber and to transfer certain proceedings to the Ministry of Justice, and nothing else. Mr Magajne's debate is, in fact, the one that somehow convinces me that I should not even have to talk anymore, because I could only ask them to rewrite into a magnetogram what he said and that I am also the author of it. But let me have a few more words. Look, room. If there are irregularities within the Medical Chamber, with so many doctors that we have in Slovenia, compulsory membership and so on, there are irregularities that have occurred in the case of Nekrep, then the matter is perfectly clear that within the Chamber, which is counted as one bus people; that is the 50 and several seats and three, four additional, and all the bankruptcy managers will go to this bus. Everyone knows each other. They're personal friends. Yeah, what are they?Oh, my God! Otherwise, we Members know each other, but we are 90. And then it's perfectly normal that they can't have any jurisdiction within this cartel, which is defending and protecting one lobby itself. I do not understand the Ministry that after all the other lobbying that Mr Zalar has already created, he is creating another. This is an incomprehensible matter for me. It's a totally incomprehensible thing. And it would be perfectly normal for you to accept this amendment, my dears, and, of course, the related amendments, because we will do nothing but transfer the powers to the Ministry of Justice, to some officials or external associates, whatever you wish, who will still be watching over them independently of the bankruptcy administrators. I must say that today I was surprised at the Committee on Internal Policy when we discussed the law following this item of the agenda, when there was a relatively large unification of the coalition and the opposition in certain amendments or almost everything we adopted with the agreement of all Members, regardless of our differences in the coalition-opposition. However, in this law, which we are now talking about, I am at least, what he expected, you understand that the coalition will leave that solemn oath, how they will work honestly, do well, take care of small creditors and so on. No! No! No, that's what the coalition refused! But most of all, I was insulted or disappointed if you want the coalition to reject what we say — what? We must say this to the public, loud and clear: the bankruptcy manager in the Elan case, Mr Andrej Marinc, has hired his own company, the owner of which he owns, for administrative and technical transactions and has paid EUR 172 000. Look, is that possible? Of course it's within the cartels! With the amendment we wanted to achieve – what? The failure of bankruptcy managers to do business in this way. No, the coalition turned it down! I have to say, I've looked twice at the board screen, twice. And he wondered if that was possible. This situation calls for immediate amendment of this law. I also listened to Mr Magajna talk about this a little while ago. I'll be a cosigner if we do this. But I believe my colleagues are, too. I've talked about education before. My earlier conversation with my neighbor, who was a bankruptcy manager in the Gulf of Kamnik. A big firm that went bankrupt once 10 years ago. He was surprised when I told him if he knew that today the economists or economists were no longer the ones who led the bankruptcy. No, these are lawyers today. Most of them are lawyers. And this neighbor of mine says, "How is that possible, because what do lawyers know about it?" I said, "You know, dear neighbor, things change, the minister creates a cartel." And his bankruptcy, which ended in less than two years with large assets, a large number of employees, therefore ended in less than two years. The gentleman got me to make amends because he called me earlier and said I said I was wrong. In fact, a little earlier, I told my advocate that he had received 2,000 euros a month. No, 2,000 marks a month won, means 1,000 euros. So it's about what? In 20 months or less or some month more, as far as this bankruptcy led, he received this sum, which was in 1996, 1997, in that period about, somewhere in that period. What rewards do these gentlemen have today, and who are these gentlemen? These gentlemen are not economists today, they're not entrepreneurs, they're not former directors, just like he was, who knew who ran businesses for 30 years. He knew what it was. He knew how to run it, and he also knew how to run a bankruptcy. And today it's done by geography teachers who take some class at the Ministry. Yeah, where did you see that? This is an impossible situation. The law calls for immediate change in the sense that bankruptcys will be led by economists, not lawyers. Economists who know how to run a company. After an immediate change – after they do not know, they decide on their own chambers; after an immediate change – after of course they do not do their own business. I'm surprised, gentlemen on the left, but you're the one who's defending the little man! He says. This site is supposed to defend capitalists – or as you once said. A few years ago, I know what the speech was like when we were lowering taxes, when I wasn't there, lowering taxes in the National Assembly, and telling the rulings back then, so my colleagues that they only care about capitalists who would buy Mercedes and the worker would have sausage, and they were positive consequences of that law for everyone. I would expect you to accept solutions that will benefit a small person. Who's that little man? Those with a minimum wage of €560 don't even get it. And his company's going bankrupt. You're advocates of these people, and we're supposed to be capitalists. That's not true. In Slovenia it is mixed left-right. I'm sure you're the very advocates of rich people who should become even richer. And that on this side there are advocates of those who are small people, with little money that barely survives. Yeah, it's an amazing situation. It is no wonder that in the world they wonder and wonder how leftists and right-wing people are now, because it is not going together because it is not according to European standards. This is hiding behind the client's name and nothing else. In fact, take care of capital, capitalists, and those who already have pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Scrooge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. We've heard a lot about the chamber, we've heard a lot about the cartel, and then we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it. Of course it doesn't. The Chamber of Fusion Managers is probably very different in nature from the chambers mentioned. It is true, however, that membership in it, with what is foreseen, is compulsory. Compulsory because persons such as bankruptcy managers exercise certain public authority. The Chamber shall have certain duties in this regard. Duties towards ensuring better quality of work or services to be provided by the members of this Chamber. Members of this Chamber do not compete with each other on the market. They're not each other's competition. In fact, bankruptcy managers shall be assigned for each insolvency procedure in accordance with a strictly defined procedure, in accordance with the order set out above. And there's no exception here. The only exception is the exception introduced by the bill. This is the fact that the bankruptcy of major companies works or is led by bankruptcy managers who have at least two years of experience. It's the only exception. Of course, there is another order among them. Let us see what the tasks of the Chamber are, in fact, which is now being established with the proposal. The Chamber is primarily obliged to provide permanent and quality education for its members. It adopts a code of good practice and recommends that managers implement these good practices in their work. If the Chamber does not carry out its work effectively enough, the Minister may propose or even order him to do any of these. So it is not clear that now that they have a chamber, bankruptcy managers will become quite the world to themselves and will make their own cake. They won't. Since the costs are not decided by the Chamber, the proceedings shall not be decided by the Chamber; the proceedings shall be decided by the Court, and the costs shall be decided by the Court. Disciplinary responsibilities shall be decided by the Disciplinary Commissions in the first and second stages. Here it must be said that in this disciplinary commission, neither in one nor in the other, the bankruptcy administrators do not have a majority. The Commission shall consist of three members, two of whom shall be judges and one insolvency administrator. So bankruptcy managers will not decide on themselves; they will not judge themselves; they will not judge their colleagues. They will be tried by judges, judges of the bankruptcy Senate who know the subject. Similar chambers, I stress this because I have already said that bankruptcy managers exercise public authority. We have similar rooms with notaries and lawyers. I understand that there are concerns about the Chambers in general, but in this case it is necessary to understand that the system as we have it today is such that the Chamber provides and, in particular, foresees them in the exercise of public interest. And the main task of these chambers, specifically the chambers of bankruptcy managers, is to provide conditions for quality. Disciplinary responsibility is determined, as I have said, by committees composed of external members, by judges appointed by the Minister. It should also be said that the proposal for disciplinary proceedings is, in principle, the president of the Chamber – this is true. However, if the Minister or the President of the Court proposes a disciplinary procedure, then the President of the Chamber is obliged to introduce a disciplinary procedure. This means that this possibility is taken care of so that the bankruptcy administrators will not be able to put their own affairs in the drawer if I say a little domestically because they were so obvious. That's what I've detected. As far as it is clear that the bankruptcy managers will now be sharing business on their own and through their related companies and with regard to the amendment, which has been said a lot, let me say to others that this is not true either. The bankruptcy managers can't share that kind of work. The proposal for an amendment or an amendment you have on the table provides that the bankruptcy manager is obliged to carry out the tasks that fall within the duty and description of the part of the bankruptcy manager. He cannot pass these works on to another, or more precisely, he can pass them on to another, but he cannot charge them. He'll have to pay for his reward. So if he gets the prizes of 10,000 euros, he decides that someone else will do everything for him, but out of these 10,000 euros, he'll give him a piece that he'll consider to belong to. This means that the costs of such work will not be increased. Costs that would eat into the bankruptcy mass. As a result, there is no danger that bankruptcy managers will negotiate with each other and postpone their own work. For those special knowledge that bankruptcy managers themselves do not have, one of them is an accounting service, but there is a possibility that this work may be waived to the one dealing with it, but it must be said that the supplementary proposal before you also provides that, in this case, it is possible to recognise in this case those services which are tariffd and only within the framework set by the tariff. This means that the services must be clearly demonstrated and must, of course, be valued in accordance with the tariff. A ceremony of imprisonment, about which there was also a lot of talk, if there was no support at all for at least a solemn oath to give to the bankruptcy administrators before the beginning of the work. In view of the fact that the public will have a real picture, it is necessary to say that the amendment which referred to the solemn oath or oath was written by talking about the oath in each individual case, which means that the bankruptcy administrator would have to repeat this oath before the judge every time he was appointed by the court, which means time delay, which means a loss of time, which means less efficiency of the work. The examination to be carried out by bankruptcy managers is very demanding. It contains expertise and examines expertise. Today we have heard a lot of readings on this account that no formal education is required. I'm sure if we sharpened formal education, we'd hear more evidence that we're creating a new cartel for this kind of education. It is clear that the arguments can be reversed in one direction or another, and the fact is that the exam cannot be done by those who do not have the knowledge and the additional safeguard in the proposal you have before you is that the bankruptcy proceedings of large legal persons will only be managed by those managers who have been working as bankruptcy managers for two years and therefore have some experience. I'll repeat what I've already said. The idea that bankruptcy managers should be limited to the possibility that certain works and services are provided to companies or persons associated with them is good. The amendment, which was rejected on the committee, was not rejected because the idea itself would have been wrong. As I have already said, he was rejected because of the second part of this amendment – Mr Gorenak, unfortunately you were not in the hall when I spoke about it – there was also another part that says that awards should be given in accordance with the difficulty of some free judgment of the court. And that's what seems really problematic to us, so this proposal couldn't go through. But you know, if there are no amendments accepted on the committee, that's how our professional services taught me, but if they're wrong, and I accept this criticism, then it's no longer possible to put an amendment to the article. The contents of this amendment do not belong to any other article. However, as I have already said, we are dealing with these threats at the Ministry, and we will give due attention to this issue in a regulation setting out which awards and which costs the bankruptcy manager is entitled to. This standard, which will be in the Rules, Mr Magajna, do not worry about sanctions. It is not a sanction that will force the bankruptcy manager to respect it. It's not a punishment. The point is that if he fails to deliver the work in accordance with the rules in the Rules, the court will not be allowed to measure them to him, he will not be allowed to accept these costs. Therefore, the sanction will be that it will simply not get paid, which means that the money will remain in bankruptcy to pay the creditors' debts. So if I take away what the content of the bill is, very briefly, because much has been said, which is not true. This proposal contains a number of measures to increase the practical effectiveness of the procedures I have already mentioned in the introduction. It highlights the quality of the work of bankruptcy managers. And the Chamber is only one of the ways in which higher quality is ensured, at the same time with greater responsibility of bankruptcy managers for this quality, including through the Chamber, and in particular in the new form of supervision, which are disciplinary committees of the first and second stages, which are composed of external actors and not bankruptcy managers, most of them have judges. The costs, or works, that the bankruptcy manager may pay to someone else and charge them at the expense of bankruptcy are explicitly limited in the bill. It is determined when to do so, and it is defined in which cases it is entitled to reimbursement of costs. It is also defined in which cases it is not entitled to reimbursement of costs because it is his work and he is obliged to do it himself. However, we did not say anything about what is the main point or at least a very important point of this proposal – this is an opportunity to solve healthy cores with the flow of fresh capital into insolvency companies. In fact, the possibility that the law now explicitly foresees is that management can also go beyond owners – if they are inactive and do not want to invest their money in an insolvency company –, management or board of creditors, which is particularly important, or a board of creditors, decides to allow fresh money to be paid to others and not only owners. This means that the door is opened and that the company that has economically viable programmes allows those economic operators who consider it reasonable to invest in this company to also invest and thereby rescue the company from insolvency and allow them to start again with this new capital. These are the contents of this law. For this reason, I am sure, Mr Jerovšek, when you spoke of the hope that translates you every time the bankruptcy law is on the table, that this time your hope will bear fruit and that it will be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you. Since it's still an interest, I'm opening applications for debate. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u138	Don't worry, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm listening to you in the hallway. That's how I hear you absolutely, and I know what this is all about. Look, it shows about the next thing. You're talking about how that amendment couldn't be accepted. The truth of the rules of procedure is the opposite. If that amendment were accepted at that time, then in the reading that we are currently implementing, you can amend it. That's how this amendment fell to the next amendment to the law, that's what it is. But if that amendment — and I had warned about it in the vote — we could accept it in the next reading, so you, Members or anyone else, could change it to what we have now. That's not exactly the case here. You've talked a lot about the composition of disciplinary committees and how they don't have most of these gentlemen, the bankruptcy managers. Yes, it is, but you have brought a different law into the National Assembly, a very different law — one by which they decide their own destiny. Only the coalition majority then miraculously missed it. The miracle besieged her and the coalition majority confirmed it. That's why it's the state you're saying today, so it's better than lawyers, we know that, but it's not good. That's what we have to say. It's about the oath, and then I'm done. Don't object to an oath! But why, according to your laws, look, the evaluators give the credit, the experts give the credit, the interpreters give the credit. I must say that these gentlemen should take an honorable oath, because it will not be sanctioned when it cheats. Well, there's no sanctions prescribed. Indeed, I think at times, in my previous term, I was in room 110, where the Prime Minister, many times by his side, accompanied by work in the National Assembly, and was told many times by the opposition at that time that everything we suggest is rejected by you! You're so ugly! Yeah, now I don't know, and now you're doing the same thing. Here and there, the coalition comes to grips with a miracle of reason and let's do something that we're good for people this morning. A little more should also be borne in mind by the coalition that on this side are the people who were ministers who led the councils in the European Union, who ran the departments for four years at the time of Slovenia’s most flourishing, and that you allow the possibility of knowing something on this page. However, sometimes I feel that in accepting the amendments, as it was at this board meeting, you act as if the coalition had all the brains you ate and the opposition had empty heads. No, gentlemen, it's not true! Practice proves something different; that the people of the opposition successfully led the European Union and the country. At least have so much respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, hope dies last. Indeed, with some hope and confidence, I look at every novel of marriage when it comes to the table, whether you are in power or anyone. And it should be so that this hope would not die. Sadly, he also dies in this new law. One of the key reasons is rape with this chamber. Mr Secretary of State, I don't know if you're a well-intentioned idealist, or a naive, or just a cold-blooded and callous contractor of the Minister's solutions. I guess we can't convince you. I think there are a lot of formed people and personalities who have gone through the economy, through a variety of experiences and have some experience in life. And it wasn't the last time people chose them as Members. We have some historical memory of what was going on in these bankruptcys. I was talking about an affair here. The Minister obviously does not want to take positive solutions and experience from this. He and the coalition – mostly on the other side. I want to believe it myself, and I believe that most bankruptcy managers are credible personalities, honest, working upright people. I know it takes a lot of effort to get these exams to get that license. It's not an easy thing. Yet, people are bloodied by nature. And there's one other thing I'd like to point out is what it's going to bring, and no matter what it takes, I'm in the jurisdiction of this chamber. You mentioned a similar chamber, a notary chamber. This is a poor example of positive solutions. We know how strongly the Notary Chamber opposed Minister Sturm when he lowered the tariffs of notaries. They shouted as if half of the notaries would be the second day of unemployment or social problems, like Mr Pahor, President of the Government who cannot survive. We should also have a Chamber of Heads of Government in Europe in order to resolve the social problems of government presidents. We're an open market economy, and all the notaries were before they left, and they'll go back to court or lawyer if they don't. As far as I know, virtually no one with tariff cuts has failed. Well, Mr. Sturm was right. There will be the same and the result — nepotism. They want to do this in the Notary Chamber. But the minister's already in a difficult situation because they're forcing names like that. There's another big danger here. You mentioned that now, for the biggest bankruptcys associated with the most money, I admit that these are also difficult cases that need two years of experience, I am just afraid that this will result in those first-graders who are after compensation, after the awards in the first league – Marinc, Mrs Toš, Pogorevc with Vidma and so on – being privileged. That we will have an elite within this chamber, or bankruptcy managers, that will be similar to the former central committee, so that not only two, three names will be the same as they used to be half the composition. We can get to that. That's why they should have a company of bankruptcy managers. Many societies, professional, professional, are professional societies that bring together people from the same profession and perform extremely useful work. Why is it necessary to work in a chamber? No one's gonna convince me that they don't run a special-purpose minister and coalition here. That these are financial interests, that this is not a protection of public interest or so on. Here it must be achieved that this law cannot be adopted or enforced in such a form. No! No! We have too many negative experiences. Look, there was a doctor's room mentioned. Now, after many years, doctors will replace the president, or an extraordinary assembly will be convened. How many years has it been said that they have been using powers in the wrong direction and that they have not done their task in a transparent manner? This is such a chamber where there are actually thousands and thousands of doctors in the back and who are going through such a lockup that we should lead them all our lives. And there are individuals who take the chamber to purely some special waters that actually protect the lack of transparency in the field of expertise. And here this danger is greater, but there is no need to have a chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can still see that, so I'm opening the application. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much again for your word. Otherwise, I did not intend to return to this amendment, but given that I have listened very carefully to you, Mr Škrlec, I have found that you have not answered my question several times. That's why I'd like to put it back on you if I could. I hope that you will answer the question of why Dr. Boštian Tratar, when it was necessary, did not complain to me for the fourth time or for the fifth time, but even though he was in charge of bankruptcy proceedings. I will renew it quickly, given that I do not know why it does not really want to answer this question. The point is that the First Instance Court awarded a prize of EUR 440 thousand to the bankruptcy manager or to the bankruptcy of Videm. In doing so, however, the hotel, reluctantly, that is now the question, has forgotten that a deposit of EUR 130 000 has already been paid. And the bankruptcy manager, say, wrote, earned 600,000 euros. And that at a time that is not the most fruitful economic and financial, etc., and individuals have severe and great problems and also social hardships. So 600,000 euros have been paid. The trustee was the Ministry of Justice. Interestingly, the higher court then found this error, but nothing could be rectified because the lawyer responsible for these proceedings, the key to these proceedings, did not complain at the right time. That is why the EUR 600,000 prize was paid. How is that possible? And I know that Mr Tratar may have just received another job for this action, but you will be able to say more on your own in the following. But I'm seriously asking you again why it didn't react here when it was obvious that someone paid too much as they did. And that's not about five euros, 100 euros, but this is where thousands of euros go. It's like we're making a fool of each other! That's why I'm six, five, I don't know how many times, I'm asking that, and I want you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Snack.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Even though I don't believe it and I don't see what that has to do with the amendment on the table. But don't make it look like I'm avoiding that answer. We talked about this a lot in four extraordinary sessions related to the awards of the bankruptcy manager. You're saying it was obvious it was a mistake. It wasn't that obvious. It was evident at the time when the Court of Second Instance issued a decision a few months after the issue of this Decision, in which it found that the court in the previous decision might have indeed made a mistake. The problem is that the awards were not limited by absolute amounts at the time, as you know. And the defence has come up with a very clear question why it hasn't complained and we've talked about this in more than one session. And the defense's answer was why he didn't complain. Because they didn't join in bankruptcy proceedings. The costs of bankruptcy proceedings were not complained to the prosecution until Minister Zalar gave an initiative or a public invitation to do so — in the summer of last year or before. The Office of Defence concluded the case file after the main division, which was in the mid-1990s. Please don't take my word for it, whether it was 1994 or 1998. But that's when the D.A. files were closed. The claim you are referring to as the claim of the Ministry of Justice was a claim for unpaid fees. The claims against unpaid court fees are not the claims of the Ministry of Justice, although they are thus kept by the defence, but are not because the court is a self-sustaining budgetary user and independent budgetary users are obliged to take care of their claim. So much for an explanation. But I'd like it not to come out empty and not to sound wrong. Complaints in bankruptcy proceedings relating to complaints about the award or cost of proceedings have not been submitted by the State in these proceedings in the past year. This situation has changed now. Even creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, not just the state, because the state is rarely a creditor in bankruptcy proceedings. They're usually legal persons. The creditors also have the opportunity to invest in legal remedies. As you are well aware, on the basis of the Minister of Justice's public call, several complaints have been lodged by other legal and natural persons in certain rebuttal proceedings, resulting in the annulment of court decisions. If I return to what has been repeated many times, that enormous rewards have been paid. The payment was made only in the Elan case. In other cases where it is normally said flat-rately that prize payments have been made, let me say that the conclusions issued have been attacked by complaints and are not legally binding. Here I go back to that chart that we've watched so many times, where there's a tall column of illegal amounts and there's a very low column of legal aid. So much for an explanation. Although I do not think this subject is related to the amendment we are considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening applications. Please report your wishes after the debate. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u146	When you, Mr Secretary of State, answered why the defence didn't complain, you said, "it was obviously a mistake," I wrote that down right away. "It was obviously a mistake." And apparently mistakes are rewarded with human resources. Yeah, that's what it looks like. This mistake is obviously rewarded. I am grateful for this answer because this will be an important information in mandate-holder matters. I just wanted to say so much that I am grateful to you for this information that it was obviously a mistake. And I don't know if this is the right method for the Justice Department to reward these mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Skrlec, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Of course I have to deny it because I didn't say it was a manifest error. However, I did say that the statement made by Mrs Irgle suggests that it is a manifest error. And I also said that the second-degree ruling stated that it was possible to make a mistake. So my claim is not that it was a manifest error. Please, I don't want to comment on legal judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Yeah, I don't know. That's not how it works, Mr. Schrtz. But it has to be repeated more than once, and then it's more of a deal. I see - Krško, Mr. Cloud sat in front of you when he took into his hands a book that was so thick and showed you – section XY, that the trustee is also the Ministry of Justice. And you keep telling me it wasn't like that. Although it was a minimum amount, that's true, something on 1.6 was, I don't know what else, from that time. But the formal reason for the complaint in Vidma - Krški was. But if Vidma - you don't admit Krka, then you have to admit the IUV, because that's where the same story is. There was the same story, there was no complaint there, and only the employee succeeded with a complaint. And in the end, I wouldn't brag too much about those charts of yours and mine. My parents were blue, and you added red color – because in fact the color is fine, right – and you drew those red ones that mean payment, so low. Look, I'll tell you this: if it wasn't for last year or June last year on the Internal Policy Committee that I'm running, my colleagues would have written a request for an extraordinary session, and we would have looked at these graphs today, the yellow color would have been blue equal to red. So you shouldn't take too much credit for that chart. It is true, however, that you contributed to this by calling and complaining later. I'll give you your share of this, but it's not entirely yours. Because, in my opinion, we would have overlooked the matter smoothly if those two meetings of the Internal Policy Committee had not taken place last year. So it seems to me that I would have thought of that earlier as some kind of joint success, that there were no such big payouts. Nevertheless, of course, you, in the first place, are already in a lot of work in this area from the point of view of the trials. And this law is also a positive contribution to this. I'm referring to the Higher Court in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Snack.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It's not going to sound wrong. The reply of the State Attorney's Office in writing, which we have obtained and which I have also quoted at one of the meetings, is that the Attorney General's Office completed its files after the main division, I believe in 1998 or 1996. That's why there was no complaint. That's their answer. However, as far as the claims for judicial fees are concerned, all I can tell you is that the Ministry of Justice's accounting is not responsible for the management of such claims. As a result, we cannot have a review of which court fee has not been recovered. I am not saying that the system is ideal, but I cannot take responsibility for something that does not fall within the competence of this ministry under the rules governing the management of insolvency records. But I think we've come quite honestly from the subject of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you. Any interest after the debate? [[Not]] . Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the time of the day, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. As you have said, there is before you, honourable Members and honourable Members, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. This law is also one of those laws that are part of the package of the Slovenian exit strategy, and this package is mainly due to the fact that this law also has a negative impact on reducing the negative effects of the crisis in order to reduce payment non-discipline. The main solutions provided by law can be narrowed down into the following few sets. The first such set is more precise rules for the search for the debtor's property and some additional entitlements or powers they have in relation to the acquisition of information on the whereabouts of the debtor's assets, the executors. This, of course, reduces the timing of the decision-making process and, in particular, increases the identification of the means to which enforcement can be cut. The second set consists of measures extending the possibility of the creditor being paid before the lawfulness of the enforcement decision. So far, such an option has been very limited to procedures arising from economic disputes, and the proposed solution is now extending this possibility of payment before the legal capacity to all enforcement addresses if money is to be enforced by payment organisations. In other words, this means that the creditor will come to the payment of his claim even if the debtor raises an objection and therefore the enforcement will continue, irrespective of the objection. This will also make it possible to pay before the opposition is decided. This significantly reduces the timing of enforcement procedures and increases efficiency. The third component refers to executions carried out on the basis of the exchange rate. On the basis of the exchange rate, it will also now be possible to establish an enforcement procedure that will take place without an objection or other remedy acting suspendably on this enforcement procedure. This means that if the creditor submits an application for enforcement and adds a view to it, the court will first have to decide on this proposal quickly, i.e. within a maximum of 5 working days, and then the enforcement procedure will proceed smoothly, even if the debtor objects to such an enforcement proposal. This enforcement decision will also be immediately served on the paying organisation and it will be able to immediately block the funds at an appropriate level without waiting for the legal authority of the decision. The transfer of funds from the debtor's account to the creditors of the account will also be carried out before the legal capacity of the decision, thereby significantly enhancing the effectiveness of the enforcement procedures. In order to speed up the judicial proceedings that sometimes result from a decision or a reasoned objection, the amendment foresees that in the case of such fair proceedings, the courts will have to carry out the first claim or claim for a main hearing or settlement claim no later than three months from the receipt of the reply to the objection. There are also a number of provisions allowing the courts to operate more effectively, such as by establishing the transfer of powers for less demanding tasks to experts and court assistants, we are following to relieve judges who will thus have more time for more demanding tasks. For the purpose of rationalising the operation and expediting enforcement, a decision-making rule according to a judge shall also be laid down in the case of appeals proceedings. The amended competence to decide on complaints on the basis of a authentic instrument will also contribute to a more rational functioning and unification of case law. Today, the system is set up by a specialised automated enforcement department operating at the District Court in Ljubljana, which is why the jurisdiction to decide on complaints against decisions in these cases will be conferred on the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. The solutions brought by the novels are therefore focused primarily on the protection of creditors and the speedy payment of their claims. And finally, let me mention something. [[... sign for the end of the debate]] the debtors. The necessary existential minimum should be taken into account and the amount of the work exempted from enforcement should therefore be equal to both tax and enforcement procedures. Here it goes for the benefit of the debtor, it is also limited or limited to the minimum wage, also laid down for the entrepreneur and the private, while at the same time eliminating the illogicality of the provisions by which it is possible for a person who does not live to be executed to cut into less resources than a maintenance debtor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric to present this report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! At its 35th emergency meeting this morning, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, the letter from the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer at the meeting was Mr Škrlec, the State Secretary, who said in addition to the explanation of the articles that the proposed law provides measures to increase the effectiveness of enforcement by reducing and simplifying enforcement procedures that will contribute to reducing payment non-discipline and the effects of the economic crisis. Since Mr Skrlec has already stated in the introduction the reasons for the amendment of the law, I will not repeat them. At the meeting of the Committee, Ms Katarina Kralj, as representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, presented the views of Mrs Katarina Kralj, who said that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled. Mr Bogomir Vnučec, President of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, also participated, who said that the State Council supports the law. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and representatives of the Association of Banks of Slovenia also participated, which noted that the proposed amendments to the provisions of the current law on enforcement and insurance could not be enforced in the letter because they were not the subject of the proposed novel, so they requested that they be taken into account in the event of any new amendments to this law. Members and members of the Committee agreed that the proposed content of the law in relation to the objectives pursued was necessary and welcome. However, most discussions were devoted to the amendment to the new Article 35a, which provides for the transitional arrangements for the enforcement procedure on the basis of the proposed rate. The amendment was supported by the proposer on the grounds of legal predictability, as the proposal for a law provides for a new regime of remuneration based on a currency as a authentic instrument, which would apply only to notes issued after the application of this law. On the contrary, the majority of the members of the Committee agreed to the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia that this amendment was not necessary, which was based on the fact that the institution does not change as an instrument of protection of the claim and therefore the debtor must be aware of the possibility of enforcement at the time of issuance of the currency if the obligation is not fulfilled. The only change for the issuer of the currency brought by the proposed payment scheme is that the creditor will be paid before the lawfulness of the enforcement decision. The Committee further supported 19 amendments to the coalition. However, he rejected the amendment to Article 35a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The law on enforcement and insurance will receive a thorough overhaul with this novelty. Amendments and additions to the law provide for greater information on procedures, improvements in the way in which debtors' assets are sought and the dissemination of a catalogue of data that can be obtained by creditors and enforcers. An extension of the possibility of the creditor being paid before the legal capacity of the enforcement decisions in relation to the cash at any executing address and in connection with the course of the exchange procedure shall be determined. Implementing procedures will be shorter as the law provides for the transfer of certain powers for less demanding tasks to professional colleagues and judicial assistants. Thus, the work of the judges in this regard will be burdened and they will be able to focus on substantive and substantively more difficult matters. A different concentration of competences in deciding on complaints will also contribute to the same effect. As a non-significant change, it is worth mentioning the harmonisation of the content with regard to now different treatments of debtors who, in addition to themselves, are living with someone else in relation to restrictions on the enforcement of the recipients and thus the provision of sufficient means of survival. The recast will bring together a number of highly interconnected and interdependent effects that can be assessed as positive and welcome for, for the first time, our judicial system, given that the implementation of one of the most black points is also due to procedural rules affecting the longevity of enforcement procedures and is comparable to the average of the European Union, even six times longer. We know that in the field of execution in Slovenia the most judicial backlogs are. Rationalisation of operations and the acceleration of enforcement by shortening and repossessing enforcement procedures will contribute to the decommissioning of the work of the courts, which will have a beneficial effect on the reduction of the arrears in this area of the judiciary. Another time. The procedure will be more favourable for the creditor and for the debtor, the procedure itself, because the rules are more in favour of the debtor than the creditor, since the debtor has a whole range of instruments that can delay the procedure, which is, of course, incomprehensible and illogical, since the creditor, in the event of default, is already in a worse position, because the fulfilment by the debtor must be achieved by means of coercive means. The costs of the procedure which the creditor has to carry out are also disproportionate to the amount of the debt. However, the consequences of the long-term enforcement procedure are not only unfavourable from the point of view of the creditor, but the longevity is, after all, poor and harmful for the debtor himself, as late interest is flowing and debt debtors are only increasing. Thirdly, improving payment discipline, which also means directly protecting the interests of the economy, easing the consequences of the economic crisis and increasing the potential for the earliest possible exit from the economic crisis. The fact that we cannot, of course, go beyond is that the dimensions of the economic and financial crisis have already plunged into an alarming state of payment discipline, which is a constant of our business culture. Therefore, a comprehensive rehabilitation of payment discipline and business culture in general is necessary. The recast of the enforcement procedure is certainly part of all the measures that are already and will be taken to that end. All of these are compelling reasons for support to be given to amendments and additions to the law. Members of the DeSUS will, of course, contribute their votes to confirm the updated text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u160	Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is primarily intended to ensure greater efficiency of procedures, which will also take into account the existence of a minimum of debtors and supplements, as proposed in Articles 101 and 102 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Article 101 of the Civil Enforcement Procedure will exempt revenue and resources intended for active employment policy. In Article 102, enforcement will be limited to the minimum wage of the entrepreneur and the private, so that the possibility of survival in the same relationship as that of the maintenance debtor will still be ensured. The law of enforcement has been in force since 1998 and has been amended seven times to improve. However, all major changes and additions have not produced the desired effect of the law, which is intended to ensure the interest of the creditor and the effectiveness of enforcement, which is the basic objective in the present proposal of the law, as it provides greater efficiency and enforcement procedures, which will be shorter and more effective. [[..]] It is also more precisely defined who can obtain information about the debtor and his assets. It is also extended to carry out, on the basis of inquiries by a court under an official obligation to provide information on the most effective enforcement measures, which is now only for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument. It is also possible to pay the creditor before the lawfulness of the enforcement decision, which until now has not been possible, except in economic disputes. However, it will also be possible to pay, under the proposed arrangements, before the lawfulness of the enforcement decision, on the basis of any enforcement address on the money held by the debtor in payment organisations. More efficient enforcement procedures based on the exchange rate, the transfer of the competences of less demanding tasks to lower-ranked co-workers in judicial types, the rationalisation of the procedures in the complaint with more precise identification of the data of the creditor and the debtor, and the faster identification of the debtor's assets, will contribute to the faster completion of the proceedings and cannot be ensured by the current legislation. It is clear from all of this that the proposal for a law makes sense to support it in the proposed content.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Parliament of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, welcome. In view of the major negative consequences of the payment non-discipline, which has recently been on the rise and represents an important reason for the insolvency of businesses and job losses, we need to take all possible measures to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure, which will contribute to reducing payment indiscipline and promoting economic activity. A creditor may request a court execution if the debtor fails to fulfil his obligations voluntarily. An effective enforcement procedure is an inseparable element of the right to judicial protection, which is generally fully achieved only by exercising a certain right or legal relationship and not only by deciding on its existence. Payable non-discipline as an occurrence in the economic process means non-compliance with agreed amounts, deadlines and means of settlement of obligations. Paying non-discipline is a major problem facing businesses in business, as it is an important reason for the insolvency of businesses and job losses, which is particularly problematic in the context of the economic crisis when payment indiscipline is generally increased. In the event of default, the firm's enforcement procedure is used only as a last resort, as it usually means the cessation of business cooperation, which is particularly problematic for small enterprises that are more closely linked to large partners. The problems of non-payments are addressed first in a coherent manner in different ways: alerting, charging late interest, creating a blacklist, stopping supply. The reasons why companies do not apply the enforcement procedure in the event of payment non-discipline are, however, an optimal situation in the area of enforcement, which as creditors do not have sufficient confidence in their success in the enforcement process. The slowness of enforcement procedures promotes financial non-discipline and poses a serious business risk to companies, independent entrepreneurs and other economic actors. Small and medium-sized enterprises may be particularly affected by financial non-discipline and the slow recovery of debt during the financial crisis. According to some data, Slovenian courts spend much more time on the judicial implementation of contracts than is the average in the European Union. At the end of January 2010, 220 thousand outstanding enforcement cases were brought before the courts. On the basis of the analysis of the situation, the Ministry of Justice has joined the drafting of a new law on enforcement and insurance aimed at a systematic change of enforcement procedures by reducing the competent courts and increasing the powers of enforcement. The main objective of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law is to ensure that enforcement is more effective by reducing and simplifying enforcement procedures. This reduces payment non-discipline, protects the interests of the economy and reduces the effects of the crisis. However, the bill is based on the same principles as the applicable law on enforcement and insurance and is without prejudice to the law. As the bill brings many useful improvements, we will support the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, as well as the amendment of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much once again, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! At the beginning of this year, the government prepared and adopted the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013, which includes a series of short- and long-term measures to bring the country out of the crisis. It consists of economic policy measures, structural changes and institutional adjustments to encourage economic activity, to phase out macroeconomic imbalances and, taking into account the social and environmental aspects of development, to enable a gradual increase in economic growth. Part of this exit strategy is also the adoption of a new law on enforcement and insurance, which seeks to achieve greater efficiency of the enforcement process and faster repayment of the creditor. During the economic crisis, payment discipline increases, resulting in companies becoming insolvent and workers without jobs. In addition to the economic crisis, payment non-discipline is also facilitated by the slowness of enforcement procedures. Therefore, on the basis of the analyses and replies received by the Bar and the Notary Chamber, the Board of Executives and the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the results of the European Research Project, which examined seven different national execution systems in terms of the efficiency of the operators conducting the procedures, the Government has drawn up solutions it considers to help resolve this issue. What, then, does the novels under consideration bring? More specifically, it has laid down rules on the search for debtors' assets and is improving the institution of the list of debtors' assets, which will contribute to the success of enforcement procedures. The catalogue of data that courts, enforcement officers and creditors may obtain is more accurate, allowing the creditor to be paid before the jurisdiction of the enforcement decision. We also welcome the efforts to expand the use of the information system relating to the identification of the data of creditors and to extend the possibility of electronic investment in enforcement. Less demanding works are passed on to experts and judicial assistants, thus decommissioning the judges. For the purpose of rationalising the operation and expediting the enforcement, a decision-making rule shall be laid down according to the judge of the individual in the appeal proceedings. The Senate of the three Judges shall, however, decide only in more difficult cases. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance, but we also expect that the solutions adopted will help reduce payment indiscipline and maintain jobs on the basis of these solutions. The Group will support the amendment of the coalition to Article 36 on technical conditions for the implementation of certain provisions of the novel, of course with the hope that the conditions will be met earlier, not until September 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you. Dr. Peter Verlič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u166	Your Honor! In an orderly economic situation, the concept of "paying discipline" should not be known. The question is whether a business bonton arising between a creditor and a debtor at the time of claim is left to the business ethics of the debtor alone or whether payment non-discipline is a broader problem. We believe that in Slovenia payment discipline certainly has a broader dimension. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already stressed many times that we want to support all those measures that will contribute to greater economic activity in the difficult economic situation that Slovenia is in. Unfortunately, recent macroeconomic indicators are not very encouraging for the current government, made up of coalition SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS. On the reasons why we are under this government in such a situation, our fellow Member of the Mags asked questions on the graphs at Monday's meeting. Andrej Vizjak. Is it therefore the hope that the proposed amendments to the law on enforcement and insurance will achieve their purpose, as explained by the Government in its explanation? We believe that a major step forward has been taken already in the previous mandate of the government of Janez Janša, when the amendments to this law introduced electronic proposals for implementation in the enforcement procedure on the basis of a authentic instrument in the form prescribed in the new special section of the District Court in Ljubljana in the newly established Central Office for a Reliable Charter. We see a successful and effective contribution to financial discipline in the information and automation of decision-making procedures and in the electronic submission of applications and other writings, which are mandatory for notaries, lawyers, executives and state defences. The rapid resolution of procedures is in favour of the legal security of creditors in securing their claims and reduces the possible speculation of debtors in fulfilling their obligations, at least by showing the positive experience of the central department so far. Therefore, our Group has tabled an amendment to Article 36, under which we propose that the deadline for the mandatory electronic investment of the instruments under this Act should be amended so that the period within which the technical conditions for electronic implementation are to be provided should be exactly one year from the adoption of the law, and not as in the proposal of the Government, where that deadline is not precisely defined. It is only stated that it starts with electronic processing when technical conditions are provided. This could be tomorrow, a few years from now, or never. It is said that Justice Minister Zalar has had a special 15-member project group for one and a half years to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance. At least in the opposition, we are accustomed to reject each of our draft laws by explaining to the Government that the Government will prepare a comprehensive system law that will address a particular issue in its entirety. If at the Ministry of Justice experts had actually met for one and a half years, it is certain that Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would have preferred to see a comprehensively renewed law on their benches today, not just changes and additions, since the government itself prefers systemic solutions to partial ones. Well, despite some concerns, it is our view that each step towards improving financial discipline is a step in the right direction, so we will support the proposed amendments to the law in the hope that you will also support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u168	Your Honor! In the beginning, let me remind everyone of the familiar situation in which our country is facing an economic crisis. In the parliamentary group, we believe that changes to the law due to emergency situations are still necessary to mitigate the negative consequences of payment non-discipline, which has recently been an important reason for the insolvency of businesses and job losses. All possible measures should be taken to help reduce payment non-discipline and, above all, to promote economic activity. The slowness of enforcement procedures promotes financial non-discipline and poses a serious business risk to companies, independent entrepreneurs and other economic actors. Small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly affected. The data from the end of January 2010 is alarming. He says there were 220 thousand outstanding enforcement cases in court by then. The proposed amendments set out, inter alia, detailed rules for the search for the debtor's property, the proposed improvement of the debtor's list of assets, the extension of the debtor's payment to private individuals, and the extension of the creditor's payment prior to the legality of the enforcement decision. Following the proposed arrangements, it will be possible to pay before the enforceability of the enforcement decision on the basis of any enforcement address to money and not only to those issued in the economic dispute procedure. Judges are burdened by less difficult tasks laid down in the law being passed on to experts and judicial assistants. The possibility of e-investment in enforcement is further expanded. And we could list it. For all of this, we will truly support the law in the parliamentary group. We also support the amendment to the supplementary proposal to Article 36 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In mid-April, I asked the President of the Government a question on the issue of payment non-discipline. At that time it was said that legislation was being prepared. At that time, I expressed my wish that the law that we are considering today should be considered at the May session. This has not happened, but we are considering it now at the June session. It should be stressed that payment non-discipline, together with the illiquidity of the Slovenian economy, is in fact the biggest problem. Unfortunately, this is not only due to the crisis, but also to the business culture itself in the Slovenian economy, which has reached the bottom, not only in this area, but also in some other areas, such as in relation to workers, especially foreign workers. The bill is somehow linked to the previous item on the agenda. It is also clear from the applicant's explanation that the proposal for a law was created at the same time as the amendments and additions that we have discussed at the previous point, together with the amendment of the bankruptcy law. These are important changes that have already been announced in the Slovenian exit strategy. In Slovenia, payment non-discipline with the arrival of the economic crisis, as I said, has become a major problem facing businesses in business. It represents an important reason for the insolvency of businesses and job losses, which is particularly problematic in the current economic crisis. In the event of default, companies only use the enforcement procedure as a last resort, as it usually means the cessation of further business cooperation. Among the reasons why companies do not apply the enforcement procedure in the event of payment non-discipline is the optimal situation in the area of enforcement, which as creditors do not have sufficient confidence in their success in the enforcement process itself. And so we find ourselves in a vicious circle, when the inefficiency and slowness of the enforcement procedures further promote financial non-discipline. We certainly support the proposal to amend and supplement this law, which aims to ensure greater efficiency of enforcement by shortening and simplifying enforcement procedures. We hope and wish that the proposed changes will really help solve this pressing problem. The effects of these changes will need to be monitored closely. If the law does not bring appropriate solutions, it will need to be amended as soon as possible and new proposals for amendments to this area will need to be prepared. This is an area that depends on the effectiveness and survival of a large number of well-standing small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not fall under their own control, but, unfortunately, foreign guilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to this Article. This is Article 36, where we have two amendments, the first proposed coalition, the second SDS. I open applications for discussion on Article 36 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I am pleased that this law was passed on the committee with the surprising consensus of the coalition and the opposition. Article 36, where the discussion is on when the technical conditions to be provided in the Central Information Unit will be established. I think we're very close. The Coalition Amendment states that the technical conditions for the implementation of those provisions must be provided by 1 September 2011 at the latest, which means that you are giving one year's time to the Ministry. Our amendment, however, speaks exactly the same, within one year of its entry into force, but allows the Minister to do so, under technical conditions, before. I personally believe that this amendment as a minister is more of an operational one, i.e. an amendment that we propose. It shall leave the Minister to assess and tell him whether the conditions are met and determine for himself this date, which may be earlier than one year. So I think our amendment is better, yours is more like a fixed date, but otherwise there is no special difference, so it seems to me to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mr. Chappich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't want to argue with Comrade Gorenak whether the cat is more or less yellow. Anyway, it's yellow. It is an amendment tabled by coalition parties on the opposition's proposal to determine the date by which this technical part must be prepared. When we have written in this amendment that it must be by 1 September at the latest, we are also allowing the possibility that it can be done much earlier. So it is not true that one amendment is better or another better. And it would be hard to say now, which is better, which is worse, both of them are talking about the same matter, with the difference that the amendment that we have tabled by coalition parties sets a fixed date than the one that someone who has to prepare some things does not catch when the publication was in the Official Journal and when it actually started running time, so we wrote it down. The final date is September 1, 2011. From this point of view, it is in fact irrelevant whether we accept an amendment of positions or opposition. They're both talking about the same matter and the same thing. However, I would say on this occasion that it is good that we have adopted this law, and it is good that, last but not least, with the amendments that we have tabled in the form of amendments adopted and not accepted, we have given the currency, as an instrument of payment insurance, one certain weight. If not otherwise, some of the procedures linked to this will run faster, and everyone who accepts the menu as an instrument of payment insurance will know what is actually ahead. Regardless of the fact that they now knew that, and that they had signed a design statement and signed the things that provided for this payment. But there's been a lot of acting and a lot of gossip that the exchange as a payment instrument wouldn't come into effect. Now, even for the bills that have already been issued, which have had this content, we are applying this provision and this way of settling these things, which we want to do with the law. I hope that this will establish, and this is the purpose, of one part of the payment discipline within this real sector, within the economy, so that we can take some of the other necessary measures very seriously. I agree, as has been said, we have already talked about this today, this is part of the legislation of the exit strategy, which will largely lead to the fact that this payment discipline, which is now blocking the functioning of this economy, will somehow come back to life as a payment discipline.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which is at 16.35. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 4.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u176	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the voting device. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. [[It's not working.]] We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. The draft decision was voted on by 68 Members and Members, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the procedure for the Proposal for a Road Safety Act. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Triglav National Park, regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first decide on the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really to Article 15 of the Act. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 66, against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 15 has been adopted. We will decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 69 of the Act. Please, Mr. Saiovic, an explanation of the voice? Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I must say, with this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we wanted an excellently prepared compromise law to be upgraded and adapted to the time in which we live. By moving the seat of the Triglav National Park to the municipality, to an environment where there are the most inhabitants and a large area, we do not have any problems, and we certainly advocate and support this. However, we believe that the essence of the development of the park and the future of the people in the park is not only in the headquarters of the administration, but in the life that is taking place in this environment. We are therefore convinced that a few million euros would apply to the cost of moving the park from Bleda to Bohinj at the first stage, especially to the programming content for rural development, the improvement of the tourist and transport infrastructure, and a peak should also be placed at the end of the management period by moving the building. We have also examined the previous discussions in detail, and we must say that the Triglav National Park Act with various investments with local elections has little in common, but it is a law that the whole of Slovenia needs, so we cannot and must not only look at it from the point of view of the local environment, and we have found a good compromise between development and nature protection. If you look at the beautiful exhibition in the hall of this hall, you will see where the essence of the park is, in a wonderful nature and in people who have the opportunity to work and develop, not in various building investments and achievements. That's why we're going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u178	Mr. Guilty, please. On behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask you first, does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to an explanation of the vote of Members and Members. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I will oppose this amendment, because this time foreseen by this amendment, which has been tabled by the LDS Group, can delay this relocation of the seat for an indefinite period, which is not right and has not been so intended in the discussions so far. It was precisely because of this debate that we had in the morning, where Mr Saiovic was not present, that the SD Group also withdrew its support for this amendment you tabled. I think that the five-year period provided for in this Article is a sufficient period of time that can regulate the relocation of this institution to that municipality or to that environment, which has the largest population in the park and thus has an emphasis on development. In the morning, it was also well said that this does not stop the building, not move the building, move certain jobs. The Bled space will remain as an information point of the Triglav National Park, where certain jobs will also be available. However, it is correct, and this has been largely joined by all Members, so that the seat will in some way only move into the environment in which most of the park is located. I therefore oppose this amendment, which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Since I see that he wants to explain his voice to several Members and Members, I am opening the time for the application to explain my voice in a personal name. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will vote against this amendment because, in a sense, this amendment, if approved, would destroy the value of this law. We need to know that negotiations with the local population have been very difficult and the long and local population is this requirement, this condition. Therefore, Members, or I myself must say that I will vote against this amendment. I want us to cooperate with the local population, so we are also Members to listen and to act as people ask us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Ambassadors, we really supported the proposal to move the seat of the Triglav National Park to Bohinj. We believe that the five-year period laid down in the law is an appropriate time when this can also be achieved in some way, even though it is our desire to make this happen more quickly and sooner. Bohinj is the heart of this park, not only because there is the largest number of inhabitants within the park, but it is also a geographical part, in fact the part of the park that we think is right that it also has a different meaning. We believe that the proposal is a good one, even though we may wonder a little in our own way, or even feel that it may not even be necessary to write such a thing into the law. But anyway, the proposal is here, the proposal is good, I think there is also some recognition for the Bohinians, and in some ways this matter is also related to the law in its entirety, which it has actually had in recent years, almost decades, great suffering in its adoption. In any case, we believe that this solution is appropriate, good, and therefore this amendment, which would extend the period when the Triglav National Park headquarters in Bohinj could be moved to Bohinj, would not be supported, since the deadline, which would have been bound to that effect for twelve years, means that, in fact, it is not the right interest, will and purpose to move.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u184	Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, as will the parliamentary group, because we are extremely pleased with this law. The so-called Wolf Act, which was unacceptable and the law we are talking about today, are 80% similar, and this is certainly a great success. We are pleased to give people the opportunity to develop, to talk in Triglav National Park about transport restrictions, environmental protection and, therefore, at a time when we are living, when we are talking about reducing the means to rebuild, say, state roads, to rebuild the rehabilitation and intervention programme on Slovenian watercourses, we would like to think more about the content, about people and less about buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has applied for the floor. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm giving you time to sign up for an explanation of vote. Anyone who wishes to explain their vote, please sign up. Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you still have in your review it is written that we are also the Social Democrats, as has been said, we have also withdrawn, so in fact now only the LDS has been proposed. Let me say that we have listened to the arguments and decided not to support this amendment, but let me say once again that it is not where the seat will be, but it is only when this seat will move, if I can use this term of relocation.The agreement that there is a seat in Bohinj was within all the groups, it was only for the time we set in which this seat should actually move to Bohinj. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against the amendment, which remains under review.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u189	During the last 20 years, there has been a lot of damage in Slovenia because there has been a battle for where a company will be established. We had in the debate the merger of Krka and Lek, we had in the debate the merger of Kolinska and Drugs, and because it was not possible to obtain agreement on where this seat would be, there was great national economic damage. In this case, it is certainly about things that are above where he will sit and when he will move. Therefore, it would be wrong for the public to be aware at this point only of the fact that we were here today chasing, where the seat will be and when this seat will move. I will not vote for either the amendment or the amendment, because the arguments for which this amendment was tabled are valid., If it was exhausted from European funds so much and so much money that a building was built there, and it is where it is, and there are also fears that this money should be returned. But no matter what, I think it's irrelevant. I have also talked to some today about whether it would not be possible for these officials, including the director of Triglav National Park, to buy a car that would drive a few days after this park and to look at where this park is, because believe me, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and some other agency financed by the State and where the people employed do not even know what it is, but they are very smart when it comes to deciding on money. And it would also make sense to think about whether this park, which is extensive, really manages it as it should. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And that's the key question. Therefore, I do not see any vital importance in contributing to my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I conclude by explaining my vote and once again inform you that this is an amendment by the LDS Group to Article 69, which I am voting on. There are 68 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 63. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 63.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment, the DeSUS, LDS, Social Democrats and, indeed, Article 75. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please sign up for the debate. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary and all present! I have already pointed out twice that this law should only provide for the possibility of regulating access or connection with the Tolmin side to that ski resort. I think we should give this a chance. What will then happen with the possible project of this access and with all the consensus and opinions of all the co-legislators and when it will also be possible to obtain the appropriate means for an appropriate connection, which is another issue. However, we leave this possibility open in marriage. Above all, this is important as the possibility of developing the Baska Grape as a valley, which is certainly necessary for this development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thanks again for saying that. I too will vote against and our Group of Members. I suggest that the other Members join in. In this morning's debate, it was very clear why this amendment has no basis for supporting itself. I must say that even on the committee when we discussed this, there was a single support for this additional indent in the fourth paragraph of Article 75, which gives only the possibility that the Vogel Ski Resort in the future through all the opinions that this law imposes, as well as other legislation, can be made possible through all these assessments by means of the possibility of regulating access or connection with this tolling party. This amendment, which you are proposing, also takes this possibility away from these places. You all know Baška Grapa, who has developmental problems, I think that there is not much to say about this, and this amendment that we have proposed and which has also been unanimously adopted by the coalition Members, you are returning to, I would say, peace or exclusion. This also makes it impossible for you to have a perspective through this law that we are now adopting. In this proposal, it is not a matter of prejudice, but will be possible to take a decision on this link in the future. This decision will also, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the law, be reintroduced into a decision at the National Assembly, as the law would have to be amended at that time. So we're not prejudging anything, we're just giving it a chance to make it happen. I ask for support in the sense that this amendment you have proposed is rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u194	Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you, Madam President. I will support the amendment, because it's the policy's job to decide and say bob beans. The law was created as a delicate compromise between nature protection, those promoted by NGOs, and those who wanted more development. And if we don't accept this amendment, I think we're overstepping this delicate limit, which is dangerous. Only the idea of putting ideas in new large spatial interventions with the argument that it is a matter for the development of local populations can be politically desirable, but that the spatial concept of the national park is being seriously undermined, and it is absurd, absurd doing, if we want to preserve the compromise reached, which is acceptable for a large majority in this country. Opposers will say it's a possibility test. That's an absurd argument. Everyone remembers that the Slovenians were thinking about three-headed cableways to build cables on the Kredarica or even higher. And we were so smart and so wise that we didn't put any of these options into the law right now. As for the development of Baška grpa and Tolminski, we defend and support it. I estimate that the fastest part of the village on the left would be to join the Triglav National Park and from this could draw on a number of ratings, means that enable development. It is paradoxical, however, that the Tolmin municipality, on the one hand, proposes additional accommodation for this area and, on the other hand, wants to degrade it by examining this possibility. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Silva Montenegro has announced that she will not explain herself to the vote. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thanks again. I listened very carefully to my colleague from LDS, and I think he explained to me the same way the Secretary of State explained to me in the morning what was once the idea of three-headed skis and so on. I hope my colleague has read what this amendment entails and what it eliminates. So we're not talking about new ski slopes, we're not talking about some new major interventions, but we're only giving some potential opportunity to check it through the process. And if this is too much for someone in this marriage, then I will slowly believe that this marriage will not come to life, because officials now have the opportunity to reevaluate what is right and wrong. I think we are Members in this role at this time and not officials who are explaining this law to us. I therefore propose that this amendment be rejected. As for accommodation and additional sites, only in the Tolmin municipality have people decided to join the Triglav National Park in Kneška Ravna, although the experience of the past law is quite poor in this area. That's why we're adopting a new law. So I think that we are deceiving these people in some way if, when it is possible to incorporate a potential development opportunity into the law, we are talking about that it is unacceptable that, in the sense of the law, it is impossible that the nature of the functions of the law are before the development and so on. We are talking again about the fact that marriage will not be good for people. And that is not what I want, because in all the debate so far, most debaters have talked about the fact that the law is good, that it has all the instruments that allow these areas to develop in the park. When I listen to a colleague, he speaks the opposite. And I ask once again for your support in this case and that this amendment you have tabled be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I conclude my explanations of vote and put an amendment to Article 75 to the vote. 68 Members and Members voted, 27 to 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 75 is not accepted. Since we have adopted an amendment to one article in the second reading, I ask the Minister whether he would like to propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Here you go, Minister Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Since, in second reading, the draft Law on Triglav National Park adopted amendments to less than a dozen articles of the draft Law on TNP, the third consideration of the draft law on TNP at the 18th meeting of the National Assembly should be based on Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Minister proposes that we decide on the third reading at this meeting and that I put the proposal to the vote. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're starting the vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision was adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 18 June 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. In this way, we will be able to complete the third examination of the bill. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving to the 7th point, this is on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill under the regular procedure. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. I'm putting to the vote a bill. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 27 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] The Law on Local Self-Government in the text submitted has been adopted. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. In the second reading, we have an amendment to Article 25 tabled by the SDS Group. We're moving to treatment. Mr. Gorenak, would you like to explain your voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Gorenak will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u201	In the area of bankruptcy, we all know, perhaps there is no need to prove in particular that a lot has been wrong in the past period. With the proposed amendment to Article 25, you have said that we will only discuss this, so I understand you, we propose, in essence, that in the event of bankruptcy, when irregularities occur and when the appointment of an administrator in new proceedings occurs there is a temporary suspension that in these cases the court must resolve in all insolvency proceedings. It means that if, in one case, it is found that something is wrong, that it is no longer able to carry out these transactions, it is possible, after the current regime, to carry them out in other bankruptcy proceedings of a calm soul forward. We propose, however, that in such cases, the court should, within three days, take away his right to operate in other insolvency proceedings. We find this matter to be meaningful in addressing irregularities in this area, so I believe that the matter must be taken up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 25th Article of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 28 for, 41 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 27 tabled by the SDS Group. I would like to point out that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Articles 94 and 96 of the same proposal. If this amendment to Article 27 is not adopted, the amendment to Article 94 and Article 96 shall become irrelevant. Mr. Gorenak on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you are, an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. This is a fundamental problem of this law, which, of course, we will also be referring to the issue of voting for or against. The Ministry of Justice has proposed a relatively clear decision, a relatively clear law. It's a cartel of bankruptcy managers. In Slovenia we have 90 registered bankruptcy managers operating 60. 60 means one bus. Among them, you also have, say, a former secretary at the justice ministry of Mr Marolt, among whom you have an important employee of Mr Hinko Jenul, who also has a licence, who is not engaged in bankruptcy, but now you are imposing a mandatory membership in the Chamber. With this set of amendments, which are bound by this Article 27, we are essentially transferring things from a supposed chamber that we believe is to be established because such a chamber is unnecessary in our opinion. In the case of a doctor’s chamber, which we know to be several thousand, irregularities have proved to be that the chambers are cartelly protecting themselves and their interests, the interests of their members. Here this interest will come to an even greater end. Why? Because everyone knows each other. About as many as half this hall, as you know. And it is logical that everyone knows each other, and it is logical that they cannot judge themselves in disciplinary proceedings and carry out some other tasks, as originally foreseen by the Ministry of Justice. With a set of amendments, we retain all the functions provided for by the law, but we do not provide for a chamber, and we impose these tasks on the Ministry of Justice, which could in a much simpler way and in a more independent way carry out these tasks than a chamber where there are 50, 55 personal friends. How they will judge themselves in disciplinary proceedings, you know it's funny. They won't judge each other. This is also normal, but they will act sooner than later to protect themselves and their interests. I know the Secretary of State is going to say, or he's going to say anywhere that this isn't exactly the case, because the disciplinary chambers are now made up differently. Indeed, the coalition has encountered little sense on the committee, so it has indeed confirmed this, and it is also true that such a law has been proposed by the Ministry. I call on you to accept this amendment or this set of amendments, because otherwise the law will not be supported by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In a personal name? [[No, no, ……]] I shall put to the vote the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. If adopted, we will also vote on Articles 94 and 96, otherwise these two amendments become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 for, 41 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment to Article 27 has not been adopted. This has also made the amendment irrelevant to Articles 94 and 96. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading of the proposal, the amendments were not adopted and we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. With regard to coordination, does Mr. Government Representative wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment, bearing in mind that the amendment to Article 22, adopted in the second reading at the home work body, which amended Article 108, paragraph 5, and increased the mandatory minimum insurance amount to ensure the compensation liability of the manager, should also be prepared a transitional regime, since adequate insurance and insurance is one of the conditions for the conduct of the insolvency manager's activities. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 93 proposes the introduction of an appropriate transitional period so that this amendment can be introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I ask my colleagues or they agree to divide the amendment and we decide on it today. Mr. Tanko, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of the fact that you have divided this harmonisation amendment just before the vote, I propose that we postpone the vote on this amendment, and we vote on Friday, because these matters also need to be checked by the parliamentary groups. But I would like to point out that such a way of working in a marriage as important as this is actually unacceptable. And the Ministry should, given that this law has been in the process for quite some time, have not been adopted and resolved yesterday in order to distribute all these matters in time, allow Members and Members' groups to verify the provisions, verify the corrections and find out if what you have proposed is the subject of the harmonisation amendment at all or whether it is a substantive provision. I do not think that this is the subject of the harmonisation amendment and that in this case it is even an abuse of the business provision. I therefore propose that we move the decision on this proposal to Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, there was no way to put the harmonisation amendment on the table before the second reading was concluded. However, I agree that you would like the fellow Members and Members to examine the proposal for a harmonisation amendment, so I propose that we decide on it on Friday in the framework of the votes. Anyone have any doubts about that? [[No, no, ……]] We will decide on a proposal for a harmonisation amendment on Friday in the framework of the vote. We interrupt this agenda item. I We move on to the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is to the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, urgent procedure. Amendments to Article 36 of the proposed law were tabled by the amendments of the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS Group and the SDS Group of Members. Would anyone like to discuss the amendments? Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. These two amendments, they're called coalition and ours, are actually the same. The same is true in that the coalition says that the technical conditions for the implementation of the provisions must be established on 1 September 2011, while our amendment says in one year, this actually means a little earlier, given the date of publication, and gives the Minister more opportunity to determine for himself when this will happen and to decide for himself when it will do so, in accordance with the technical conditions. It is true, however, that the consequences of the decision by yours or our amendment are the same, and I still believe that it offers our amendment more opportunities to the minister than to the coalition. Voting will show some kind of prestige. If the coalition wants to make one amendment supported by the opposition, it will do so. Last but not least, you're going to have to say that you're going to have a relationship to the pearl you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We will continue to vote on the first amendment. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 36 of the Law, and I therefore ask the qualified proposer whether it wants a third hearing at this meeting. Here you go, Mr. Snack.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We would like to propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The second amendment has been adopted and I am warned that this is an urgent procedure and we can move immediately to a third-reading law. Does anyone wish to make an amendment to Article 36? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to a decision on the law as a whole. We're moving to the vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the law was adopted in the third reading. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st point – this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak on the resolution of the economic crisis. On behalf of the Group of Members, he shall have an explanation for the vote of the Magi. A visor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! When asking the question, you could also see relatively sad statistics on the monitors, both in terms of economic growth, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, including indicators that speak of the sad public financial picture, both as regards the growing deficit of the country, the growing public debt and the increasing number of employees in public administration. I have warned that this government has established as many as 10 new agencies and is acting as if we are in the midst of the greatest prosperity. Economic indicators go one way, and the behaviour of this government, when it spends money primarily on the functioning of state bureaucracy, goes the other way. It's not a stable system. Sooner or later, he'll kill. And there was no awareness of that either from the response of the Prime Minister. The balance of the budget that we have on the table, the excise policy of this government, as it raises excise duties and thus instils energy, fuel and electricity for our people and the economy, is actually going in the opposite direction, such as logical behaviour. Instead of decommissioning the economy in order to breathe in these difficult conditions, this economy is starting to operate with a higher rhythm by means of these measures of the Government of the Soul. The balance of the budget, which reduces investments, will mainly affect the economic operators that have pledged these investments, the state investment business, as there is no private investment and there is no incentive for the government. We behave in a cyclical way, we are in a deep abyss and actions lead even deeper. The response of the Prime Minister of the Government is not satisfactory, of course, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the debate on this response and will therefore seek to ensure that the Government and its President realises that the matter in Slovenia is serious, that for the first time, the economy needs to be burdened, secondly, an effective austerity measure in the public sector should be taken to continue with state and local investments. The balance of the budget is foreseen now, before the first half of the year, by 10% less European funding and so on. The facts emanating from the figures and the government's actions point in the opposite direction, and we hope that in the public debate we can convince the Government to take the responsible tasks more seriously, this is the solution to the accumulated problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Who's in person? [[No, no, ……]] I propose to vote that the National Assembly discuss the response of the President of the Government to the question of mags. Andrea Vissiak. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jakob President, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the President's question on the budget balance. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian wants the word. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have focused mainly on reducing investment in this question of my delegation, investment in this draft budget balance that we have, I think, received on our bench yesterday, and I suppose we will soon also consider it, and on the proposal, where the remaining material costs are not significantly reduced in this budget, as we have always warned, and this is always too little taken into account. I think that all the strong global economies at this time, at the time of the crisis, pay a lot of attention to state investment and investment opportunities to other people, and also provide countries or local communities with the opportunity to move investment forward. This is not only important for construction, which is very clear in the crisis at this time, but it is also important that in particular in this sector certain things, such as housing conditions and so on, should be regulated by regulations, regulations and so on. Here we are certainly lagging behind and living many as slaves or inequitable in a developed country, in a developed Central European country such as Slovenia. But this is not just a construction problem, it is certainly the problem of the whole economy and the indirect problem of the budget, the budget treasury and all the other cash registers. So, health care, pensions and so on. Therefore, I think it is important that this debate be made before the budget rebalancing is considered, and I think that the debate on this item would be a good introduction to the debate on the budgetary rebalancing and finally to the adoption of the budget. I propose that we confirm this proposal to discuss the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u216	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 36. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, to the question of Parliamentary Affairs of Zvonka Laha concerning the establishment of municipalities. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, to the question of Mr Bezjak's question on support for Slovenian companies. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Milan Čadež, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, to Milan Čadež's question on the payment of subcontractors in public procurement. Mr. Chaddez, please. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group visits Slovenia and regularly visits entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the regions. We note that those companies or craftsmen who export their products/products abroad or are export-oriented have survived this period of crisis quite well. It is also important that orders are increased and that they also receive payment for their work. However, in Slovenia, in our country, where we find that payment indiscipline is the biggest problem, the grey economy is the biggest problem. This biggest problem is mainly from large companies, the biggest ones in Slovenia looking for their subcontractors, and these subcontractors are left unpaid. According to the Minister's response, which listed all those measures that have already been taken, the situation has not improved. I believe that those who do not pay have connections in the governing policy. This concerns me, as does the entire group of Members. The debate on this topic is therefore urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 65 Members and Members voted, 27 to 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs to the question of Mr Bogdan Barovic on the validity of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted, 26 to 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question by Dr Vinko Gorenak on the priorities of police work in the field of the most demanding forms of crime. Mr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I asked the interior minister about the priorities of work in my question. She most often, even when journalists ask her how, let's say, an awkward question or a question, when she wants to avoid the answer or take what responsibility, she says, "No, no, the police work autonomously, you know, I have nothing to do with it," that is the usual answer. But such an answer can be for ignorant people, such as those who do not know the subject. In the Police Act, we already set out in Article 2 in 1998 a definition of the relationship between the Ministry and the police. In 2003, there was some kind of dispute between the then police director and the then internal minister. The Constitutional Court reached out and said, "No, the minister has the right to know everything, i.e. he is the head of the administrative body." With amendments to the law in 2003, the Minister of the Interior, in our case, has been ordered to give the police guidance and mandatory instructions for the performance of the tasks, I stress, guidance and mandatory instructions for the performance of the tasks. So the Minister cannot avoid being responsible for directing the police and overseeing the work of the police. He must carry out this task. And her excuse, if you don't know anything about it when it's not necessary or when it suits her, let's say at home, hides and says, "I don't know anything about it." There's no excuse for that anymore, it's clearly written in the law. Of course, the purpose of my question was a little deeper. We are in an absurd situation called this: when it comes to someone like this three years ago, I'm talking about the Ljubljana mayor, the police say or what she says, "well, we have human rights problems with criminals, and we've allocated the matter to Postojna." Why is that? Because there might be a little less knowledge there to find anything less than the Ljubljana crime scene. At the same time, the police and the interior minister have a very short reaction time when it comes to the former Minister Dr. Rupl. The storm, Dr. Simoniti or former Prime Minister Mr. Jansho. And say and write, look what happened last February Mr Slavko Fatak testified to the Internal Policy Committee on February. He's already been questioned. These are those priorities that need to be discussed, since the Minister is responsible for these priorities, he needs to give instructions and discuss how these guidelines are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u220	We're voting on the proposal. There are 66 Members and Members present, 26 for, 39 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Grill on the proposed amendment to the Land Book Act. Mr. Grill, on behalf of the delegation. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Yesterday, I asked the Minister why the Law on the Land Book was being amended, where certain social elites in Slovenia are once again favoured, because this law will give notaries and lawyers the exclusive possibility or jurisdiction of entering the Land Book. Even now, these two elites, who have always been privileged and at the expense of taxpayers or citizens and citizens, have made an excellent profit. The second anomaly of this law is that so - called court fees for land registrations are drastically increased. Otherwise, Mr Minister has tried to mislead here that the judicial tariffs will be reduced, but they will be reduced to those who have so far been rich tycoons, paying a little more for admissions, means for entries of property that exceed a few hundred thousand or several million euros. What's this all about? Now, on average, 80% of all entries in the land book were in a 12-euro court fee. These are the land values of 500 000 euros, or several thousand euros, and these were mostly agricultural land. Now the tariff, which will amount to EUR 100, will be unified. It means 7 to 8 times more, people who will buy or sell small property or property of small value. Rich or tycoons, who now paid 5,000 or 5,000 euros for expensive purchases or sales, will also pay only 100 euros. It means that it benefits the rich again by increasing these benefits seven times to eight times for those who are already disadvantaged. What I think is important is that all these debates or coordinations have excluded the professional public, although yesterday the Minister said that this debate is still going on, but according to the information I have, it does not appear that the professional public, which is critical to such solutions, is completely excluded. That is why I think it would be useful for the Minister himself to have a general debate here and all of these arguments examined, to consider getting such a law that will benefit those who need it, but not just a priority or the privileges of notaries who are already serving in one way or another, and of course also lawyers. This is not fair, and it is right that these things be done in a way that will be just for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u222	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 65 Members and Members present, 26 for, 38 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, to the question of Mr Jerovška on interstate cooperation in the prosecution of organised crime. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jerovšek? Mr Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I, too, asked Minister Kresalovo very important and very serious questions, but I did not get the right answer or received very clever answers. In recent times, we have seen that the law enforcement authorities of classical crime and white collar crime are relatively successful both in Serbia and in some other Western Balkan countries. It seems, however, that, especially in this latter case, in the pursuit of crime of white collars, money laundering and so forth in Slovenia, there is no real political will for cooperation and for a successful prosecution of this, because it opens up links that also go to the tops of the Slovenian authorities and the pillars of power, the centres of power in some Slovenian powers. We have now heard that in some areas there has been some movement in recent times, but the police have had some things prepared and there has been no political will. Let's hear that, let's say these drug lords worked very well with the Ljubljana city authorities, only then the pressure from abroad, from America, has caused arrests and so on in this classic crime. It is even more worrying in some way to prevent the persecution of this economic crime, organised money laundering, financial transactions, fraud and so on from the Slovenian side. Other countries now also have some confiscation laws so that they can fight more successfully and we do not have this political will. And for this reason, I think we need to shed light on this strange behaviour of Slovenian policy in relation to the persecution of all types of organised crime in breaking up these organised associations in both classical and economic crime. It was also clear from the Minister's replies that this political will could not be felt in some way by this power if there were greater success in the prosecution of these crimes of money laundering, fraud, financial transactions and so on. It is therefore necessary to hold this debate, because it is in the interest of Slovenian society, it is in the interest of transparency and this is what the Slovenian public expects. The country must become more successful in this persecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u224	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There were 65 votes in favour, 26 in favour and 39 in favour. [[26 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs to the question of Mr Marjan Pojbič on the public tender for the supply of office materials for the purposes of the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the public administration. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There were 65 votes in favour, 26 in favour and 39 in favour. [[26 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We have voted on the Members' proposals, and this concludes this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 18th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
