ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Janja Klasinc, Tone Anderlič from 2 p.m. and Roberto Battelli. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the 2010 draft budget rebalancing proposal for the Republic of Slovenia. On Friday, 2 July 2010, the National Assembly suspended the discussion on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal. In the context of the applications, Dr Vinko Gorenak, who has the floor, applied for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Although time is limited to 3 minutes, however. The performance I made was a little bit in a different context, so let me put it this way. The opening act of the Prime Minister surprised me to some extent. He surprised me because he offered to cooperate with the opposition. At that moment, I took a look directly at the Members sitting opposite me. I've seen face-to-face, eye-to-eye, and so on, which means that the President of the Government probably pulled that move again propagandaly. We offered cooperation on the first day to the coalition. The first day you got the government, we offered it. The Prime Minister of the Government was also the one who spoke about these matters. However, nothing happened until February 2009. Since nothing had happened until then, we sent you a letter and offered you such an agreement, which, as you know, was never answered. However, we know from the media that you specifically rejected him by the parties Zares and LDS. Such an offer today seems like the offer of one who drowns and cries out for help. The deadline is still offered, and there is no question by the opposition. The question is whether the government will be allowed to do so by the coalition. Two more shows. Mr. Franco Yuri was talking about the opposition that was supposed to be involved and was watching us if you didn't want to cooperate. If Mr Yuri were here to accompany the President of the Government, then he would know what I'm talking about. But I'm not lucky enough to meet Mr. Frangejo in this room, because whenever he does, he leaves the office. He talked about how Slovenia is economically good and will therefore help Greece. Mr Frangež, I strongly suggest that you share the following – together we share an office in Rogaška Slatina. We're both using municipal premises. You got there a year and a half ago, announced terrible help to the citizens, and now you're gone. I'm there every 14 days. In the last period, I was visited by five pensioners who were knocking on Mr Frangejo's door and he was gone. That's why they came to my office. I ask him to help people with 300, 400 and 500 euros explain why Slovenians are better and why we will help Greeks the next Monday when we have an office. You don't get to go into such demagogies! We know that there are other reasons why this should be done and not so demagogic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the rebalancing? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think that much has been said and almost everything has been said in the debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. We also said in the DeSUS Group that we disagree with this proposal a lot, but in the end we have no choice but to confirm the balance as designed. Our comments were made. We do not agree or accept with any concern the fact that there are significant investments in the balance sheet to reduce investment. In particular, we have stated that it is not good to balance the revenue side in a way that raises excise duties, not everywhere, but excise duties where it is absolutely necessary for our citizens and citizens. It's about excise duty, where, say, electricity goes up. In fact, we have done nothing, regardless of the fact that funds are being maintained on the other side of social transfers. On the one hand, funds are provided for social transfers, and on the other hand we take to citizens and citizens or to all of us. Balance in the way of raising excise duties, at least on these issues, is not acceptable to us. Although I believe that this is a very in-depth assessment of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries and that there is no other solution. I would also like to mention that the burden is to be spread evenly across the country, to all citizens and citizens. However, when we look at the rebalancing and see a reduction in resources in the field of the Ministry of Transport and when it comes to reducing investment, investment maintenance, we somehow accept this fact because it is an urgent evil that we must accept. It bothers us that there remains a large gap in the maintenance of the road network. If we look at road construction and road infrastructure, that it is the backbone of the economy, then it seems to me that it is very difficult to accept the fact that it is all of a sudden cutting for all the provinces and for all the regions the same. The Koro region is the only region that has not even a metre of highways and where the entire road spine is falling apart. If we draw the line and say that we will now reduce funds for new construction, investment and investment maintenance, then we cannot imagine that a region like Koroška will be such that at least two regions in which the whole road system is falling apart are likely to do more in the direction of promoting the economy and acquiring or creating new jobs. This balance sheet seems unfair to me and is not good because those regions that are developed can afford to invest nothing in the field of roads for a year or two. Those regions that are already in a difficult situation will remain so, and the gap between developed and less developed regions will also increase. This is certainly a matter of great concern in this case for those regions where this level of development has not yet been achieved. There's something else I'd like to say. The balance sheet also reduces resources in the area of protection and rescue. All those things that are directly linked to citizens and citizens, whether social transfers, what I've been saying, whether it's a little bit smaller or a little more cautiously reducing and increasing excise duties on those parts that are essential for the lives of our citizens, are also protection and rescue. These elementary disasters, which receive new dimensions, content, also require new, not only training, but also the equipment of all our services, which care for protection and resolution. Here we're cutting the funds by about 4 million. It is a reduction in operational programmes, services, protection and rescue, as well as in voluntary firefighting companies, which we call the phenomenon of our country. Voluntary fire companies with this potential, and with this possibility of rescue, are urgently needed, and probably few countries that would voluntarily have all the services that are urgently needed for our country. It is therefore very difficult to accept the fact that in such areas as are urgently needed — protection and rescue — either when it comes to road rescue, in cases of hazardous substances, spillages and so on, funds are falling. We will reduce on education, operational programmes, equipment of all services, so that we will of course confirm the balance, there is no other way out. However, we continue to stress and hope that there should remain some possibilities within the ministries to balance at least those areas that are very attractive or where it should not be reduced, as this would directly affect the lives of our citizens and citizens. As I said, he is somewhat satisfied with the balance sheet, but let the rebalancing also be an opportunity for the government and the ministries to look for more options on the revenue side. Almost always, almost every day we hear about tax evasion of various companies and this is a huge amount. We do have good marriages, but they don't. The traceability of law enforcement is sometimes very difficult. We probably need even better inspection services and better supervision to reduce the grey economy in order to collect taxes where there are taxes where there are luxuries. Electricity is definitely not a luxury, electricity is needed. I agree to meet somewhere and to expel this income gap. Just not in such a way that the most vulnerable groups of our country, those on the brink of existence, still pay extra taxes for it. Let him pick up where it's a luxury, some things that aren't necessarily necessary for the existence of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u6	It must be said very briefly that the 3A and 4D axis will be financed through a public-private partnership. There will be a law in the High Council, I think, which will allow these facilities to be placed in space more quickly. By autumn, however, a law will also be drawn up to determine the role of the State in guaranteeing a minimum return on the one chosen as the financier and then for the producer of these arms. These roads, which will connect some industrial centres to the European motorway cross or to the network, will be built within the shortest possible time allowed by our institutional conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We have already announced support for the proposed budget rebalancing at the LDS Club, but we have, of course, pointed out some things that we think are important to note the stability of public finances and the measures that we expect the Government to take to bring about measures that will on the one hand justify the rule of law and, on the other hand, the social state and, on the third hand, the prospects for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the important criticisms expressed during this debate was that there was a reduction in the type of investment. I would like to reiterate that the significant decline in investments is due to the deficit on the income side in relation to the expected revenues. Nevertheless, it is important to note what has been said several times before, but I think it is right to reiterate this that the estimated amount for investments is higher than that in 2009. In this regard, my debate is focused mainly on the part relating to the reduction of investment in health. In the area of health, I have had to review the data on how we have invested in public health institutions in all these years, especially what we are funding from the budget, where the founding country is, i.e. on a secondary and tertiary level. Through the review over the last 10 years, we can see that we have a lot of swings, given what we have planned and realized. Also last year and this year this 2 is not pointing down. I would like to point out that the Government, or the Ministry of Health, is talking about slowing down investment. In doing so, I would point out that it is in the field of health that the slowdown of investments is a type of problem because there is a re-programming of investment plans through the development of technology and standards, and in this way there is an increase in costs over a series of years when an investment is under way. Given that our new Minister of Health took office only one or two months ago, we have a 1994 law in this area that talks about investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and which we have already fixed four times. However, we corrected it primarily by extending it and increasing the amounts. Given that changes are now taking place in later years and that the Ministry has identified priorities at 3 levels, the first level needs to complete the investments already started, the second level is the priority level, what is in the phase of completion and high priorities and the third level is that investments under the Development Programme Plan are being closed down in lower priorities. Why am I reminding you of this law? I refer to this law for a simple reason because one of the articles in this law tells us that investment in public health institutions should be due to a network of public health activities – public health services – which are set out in the plan. We do not have this plan, and this Health Action Act, which is intended to lay the foundations for the establishment of this network, is crucial. Otherwise, it happens to us that investments tend to wane, as we do now, if you look at budgetary developments over the last 10 years. This is bad because things are being stimulated, but at the same time they create discomfort for those users who expect these investments to take place in individual environments. Therefore, within the Ministry and within the Government, it would be an opportunity to think about how to further approach health investment from the State budget. As a basis for setting up a network based on the needs of the population, I think it is necessary to redefine both the content of the law and then the development agendas for the implementation of these investments, taking into account the basic criteria, which are the needs of the population and the equal and fair accessibility of residents and residents everywhere in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I particularly note this and refer to the predecessor who said that regional differences are essential and that the aspect of the field, including health care, is one of the criteria that says that survival at birth in Northeastern Slovenia is significantly lower than survival in some other regions of Slovenia. These are very important elements that must also dictate decisions on development activities. I would like to point out this because in 2000, we also amended this law with another article, which referred to the need to define the standards of equipment and buildings for balanced investment in the light of the needs and rationality of the implementation of the health service in 2000. Now, as we walk through individual hospitals and public health institutions within the board, we see significant differences in the rationality of constructions that affect the number of teams and costs. In this way, planning investments in public health establishments in the secondary and tertiary sectors is extremely important. I would like to point out that we do not have a network option plan because there is no plan, we cannot define this network, but we do have a state of law that is not defined. That is why it is happening to us that we can withdraw investments from the budget into the budget, which are a bunch of problems, which then very much encourage an investment and also create a number of problems. In this law we have a committee to monitor investments, but this committee does not actually work. As a warning and an incentive to the Minister to consider these matters, which are in force by 2011. In the period until 2010, as part of the 2011 budget preparation and beyond, the amendment of the law can justify the definition of the network as well as investment in public health institutions. I also think it is very important to draw attention to this from the point of view that we are talking about the status of public health institutions. It is my belief that a step forward should be taken to increase autonomy and leave to the public health institutions significantly more responsibility in planning their investments and providing funds, while just waiting for what will be included in the budget, already what time has passed. In the second part, I would like to touch on the Government's actions, which, despite the recession, is paying great attention to measures in the area of social security for citizens. I join the Prime Minister of the Government in calling for the best solutions together in order to provide assistance to those who need it even more in these difficult times than they needed at a time of better, positive economic growth. I am talking in particular about very important structural reforms in the field of social and health. Now we're going to have a whole package of these laws, 2 we already have in second reading, this is the exercise of rights from public funds and social security contributions that place some things on completely different bases. But the key point is to help those who deserve help. The aid should run transparently and there should be no accumulation of social transfers because the system is impractical. We are also facing reforms in the labour market and significant changes in pension legislation. Here I feel that the solutions we will have to look for are necessary to be adopted in the greatest possible and widest possible consensus. Given that I am convinced that even if today the structure of the government was such that the opposition leads it, it would face similar dilemmas, how and how to respond to the lower income side and the search for a solution in the urgently needed reforms. That's what I'd say in closing. Now that the government is deciding on how to execute public procurement, it offers a recipe or a solution in the joint implementation of public procurement. We have been talking about this for many years in this House. Given that it has been pointed out for the last time that this could be a range of corruption, I appeal to this government and to any government that will continue in later years, that this prevention of corruption is one of the very important and permanent tasks that the Government must carry out. We cannot say here that any government was completely different from the other. An example of operating tables was also highlighted. In the past mandate, we had a very broad debate on the coast – 17 operating tables – and then the Minister's interpretation of this topic, where we discussed how the call for proposals is being conducted and how interested parties participate in co-forming decisions. This is a very important warning for which I expect the Government to do everything to ensure transparency and thus ensure an equal approach for all those who can participate in order to be selected in the invitation to tender. And then there's another warning. There's a lot of voice out there saying that the state signs up investments and offers certain conditions on the tender. One of the very important criteria is the price. There are very important anomalies, let's say that the government signs an investment that is estimated at 100 units, and the work gets someone who offers, a little work in the extreme, 60 units, to me, that difference is weird. Whether someone does not pay the employees and then there are anomalies, whether the investment goes to a significantly lower quality level or someone who has assessed the investment completely wrong on behalf of the contracting authority. Then a certain public invitation to tender comes to very unrealistic offers, and in the end, we have a number of complications from this title. Here, too, is a particular thought in the direction of how these things are being driven so that such deviations can occur. I am saying that some work should be evaluated both in the context of material investments and in the context of labour costs, which should be properly and honestly valued, but not that we are then witnessing the extraordinary pressure of employees to make an investment below a substantial lower value than was recorded in the call for proposals. Respecting that the Government bears all the responsibility or that the contracting authority of a public contract evaluates rationally the cost of an investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. Franz Jursha. I'm not going to file an application. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I probably won't say anything new because it was already quite a bit said on Friday and today, but I still think it's right to say what I think about the 2010 budget rebalancing. I must admit that this method, which is linked to key investments, somehow doesn't suit me. I don't think it's the right policy here to squander investments for this amount at this point, because only through this cycle of investment could the economy move forward. I think we are all aware that in the autumn time, and also later, it will cost as many construction and construction companies as possible. We are probably also aware that there were very few investments at the local level, except for Ljubljana and some other major cities, and almost nothing in the economy. However, local communities as well as the state invested. It bothers me that investments in state roads are being cut down. In local communities, it is said at the level of the municipalities, we already have rather well-managed local roads, but state and regional roads are in a catastrophic state. Reducing investments will significantly reduce taxes, increase social transfers, reduce the inflow to the budget, which on the other hand means, as I have already mentioned, an increase in social transfers, so to speak, expenditure from the budget. I do not think that this will reduce the gross social product from the desired to even smaller percentages. We should risk and increase investment by some percentage of public debt and thus start a cycle, give people a job, businesses a job, and the country to reduce the expenditure from the social transfers budget, as I have already mentioned. We are seriously interfering with the balance in investment, as I have already mentioned, in the area of national and regional roads, which I think is not good. I am thinking on my own, but I am not an economist, that we should primarily cut into collecting as many taxes as possible. I don't know why we're not going to lay down a tax on luxury and pick it up. Why don't we cut down on the social directorship? I mean, excuse the expression that the bull has to be caught by the horns and laid down like that. If we don't do this sooner or later, we'll get revenge in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Does anyone want to discuss the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2010 With regard to the amendment by the SDS Group number 1, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in different sub-programmes within individual users and does not contain a proposal to increase funds in certain sub-programmes, so this amendment is fully discussed, within the framework of the first-mentioned user, this is the President of the Republic of Slovenia. I am putting that amendment to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, the sub-programme of preparedness of the system for protection, rescue and assistance. I am putting to the debate an amendment under this sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Economy, a sub-programme for increasing competitiveness. Who wants to discuss the amendment to this subroutine? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy where an amendment is proposed. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Sub-programme for Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Under this sub-programme, I am putting 12 amendments to the debate. Anyone want to discuss these 12 amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. I'm sorry, Mr Göncz, I'm sorry, I didn't finish the debate. Mr Göncz has the floor under the sub-programme for investment maintenance of state roads. Please, Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am discussing the second item in the framework of the proposed amendments, namely the reconstruction of the regional road at the Domanjševci-Kobilje section. Although I am aware of the concept of the budget rebalancing and also of interfering with the investment part in this area, we were of the opinion that this is a particular case for demographic reasons in particular. I must say that the implementation of this project as a whole has been envisaged in the long term, i.e. for several years and unfortunately it is not in line with the programme adopted. The 1st part or 1st phase, however, was closed in time and then the matter stopped. The problem is that this investment also relates to another investment, namely the construction of a water network in Domanjševci. These are settlements in the area of Domanjševci where the population decline is more than 25% within the ten-year time period. We believe that any possibility that can improve the living conditions of the population must be tried at least a little bit, so it would be good to support this amendment, because in this case the water system could also be completed. By the way, in order to complete this part of the project in a timely manner, it would also actually improve the conditions of at least that part of the population that is in real danger and this area is largely abandoned by young people. It is a proposal to carry out phase 2 as far as possible in this year and not to move in 2011, and this movement in 2011 is also indicated in terms of options. So it can take longer than that, which would not be acceptable. That is why I propose and ask that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss these amendments under the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Before I go any further, I'd like to correct my initial announcement. I said we'd have a discussion on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 2. Seven. 2009, of course 2. Seven. 2010 So much for all those who follow this session closely. We are moving to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia to manage the investments of JJI under the sub-programme of investment activities on railway infrastructure. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Environment and Space under the sub-programme to improve the state of the environment. We have one amendment. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Health under the sub-programme of investment investments in hospitals. We have one amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Within the same user and subroutine, the collection of blood and organ transplants has one amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Under the sub-programme, measures to improve the treatment of the biological medicine have 1 amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, under the sub-programme we have 1 amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Under the kindergarten subroutine, we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Under the sub-programme, primary education has two amendments. Does anyone want to discuss these two amendments? Please, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am probably the only one who is discussing the amendments, and this is also due to a lack of time with some of the applicants, but two would say about this amendment. Firstly, it is an investment in the completion of a bilingual elementary school in Lendava and, for unknown reasons, it is reduced by a good €170,000, which makes it impossible to complete this facility. But the issue is a little more pressing, especially because the Commission for the National Community and also on the working body did not talk about it or was interpreted as being set up in the rebalancing as originally planned, but unfortunately it is not. Please try to take into account that this is an extremely important investment in the national mixed area. Secondly, I think that a number of systemic issues are emerging in the area of investment in the national mixed area and a thorough discussion should be held at the level of the Government and the professional institutions, as there are dilemmas about the professional services to be addressed. Today is not the time to get involved in this matter. In the case of a specific amendment, I believe that this is an amount which should not be a major problem mainly because this reduction has not been coordinated or even negotiated at the professional level. I expect support for this amendment, which will benefit not only nationality but the entire national mixed area or the entire southern part of Prekmurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss these two amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will be held today, within half an hour of the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anyone want to discuss the Development Programme Plan? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place today, in accordance with the timetable of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the time of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the Republic's budgets for 2010 and 2011 under the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These are changes necessary for the ongoing, smooth implementation of the budget. Amendments are 3. The first relates to the possibility of redistribution of spending rights within a particular sub-programme where the Ministry has direct users within its competence. This is mainly about courts, prosecutors and administrative units. They can manage or optimize the performance of their tasks within their budgets by redistributing resources within the sub-programme. In particular, this amendment has been shown to increase some of the tasks that can be funded within the framework of the annual budget. The second amendment is that the law lays the legal basis for the conclusion of a contract with a public service where public funds were owed a greater amount for the performance of this service, which has not been settled and can now be agreed on by the contractor and the budgetary officer on how to repay the outstanding and outstanding obligations incurred in previous years. These are known cases of non-payment of public service by rail, which will be settled manually over the next period. However, it is possible that similar cases may arise in other public services. The third amendment is to provide a legal basis for pre-financing of European Union funds, including the social chambers of Slovenia. A number of public and private law institutions already have this status, and this will enable the employment of 500 trainees in the field of social protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepić to present the report to the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister, the co-workers and the co-workers! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting, on 30 June. 6. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and, at the opening notice, that the law in question contained only additions and made a concrete comment to Articles 2 and 3. In the context of additional working material, the Committee adopted the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of public finances, of 24. 6. 2010 which addressed or introduced the draft law as an interested working body. On the basis of warnings and opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service of the amendment, 4 coalition parliamentary groups tabled among qualified candidates. It follows from the explanation of the proposal, as presented by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, that the short technical text legitimizes solutions that will allow the smooth implementation of the budget adopted in accordance with the principles already adopted, as well as the regulation of the umbrella law on public finances. However, the budget rebalancing will be possible under the above-mentioned bases. In the context of the additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that all the comments submitted were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The Committee then adopted amendments to articles 2 and 3 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles of the legislative proposal when voting on the amendments. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which has amendments, includes an updated proposal for a law which you have received with the material and report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The presentation of the positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much again for your word. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011. The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 has already been adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia together with both budgets, and for 2010 it has been slightly amended in individual provisions. The preparation of the balance sheet was necessary because, during the financial year, the changes in economic developments led to a reduction in budget receipts and the budget was not balanced despite measures to suspend the implementation of the budget. As a result, the proposed law should also be amended in view of the implementation of the budget rebalancing, since it is only in this way that it will allow for the continued smooth implementation of the budget in 2010. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget. With the amendment of Article 1 of this Law, a new Article 14a is added to the existing law. By supplementing the basic law, it will be possible to redistribute spending rights within the sub-programme between those budget lines that are within the competence of the proposer of the financial plans. The entities subject to this Article shall in particular be courts, prosecutors and administrative units. In this way, it is only at the sub-programme level that it is possible to offset the different spending of resources on salaries, material costs, costs of judicial proceedings and free legal aid and small investments to bodies which do not have an absolute impact on the scope of operation. This will enable direct users to better coordinate their financial needs within their respective competences. In the Republic of Slovenia, public economic services are also provided with material public goods that are in the public interest. Public economic services can be provided in a variety of organisational forms and are financed, inter alia, by budgetary resources. The proposed addition to Article 2 of this Law allows for a contract to be concluded with a direct user who is obliged to finance a specific public service, in the event that the implementation of a public economic service has been carried out to a greater extent than envisaged, with the economic public service operator, in which they agree on a multi-annual settlement dynamic of already outstanding and outstanding obligations. By establishing this true basis, it shall be possible to avoid litigation and, consequently, the need to provide additional means of payment of late interest. The proposed supplement allows the conclusion of such a contract only provided that the scope of the outstanding obligations can be clearly established, provided that both the financier and the public economic service operator agree on the way in which the outstanding obligations are settled. 3. Article 3 of the Act amends the definition of prepayments referred to in Article 23, paragraph 2, of the Act, which provides that prepayments are allowed for EU funds and the means of Slovenian participation up to 20% of the value of the planned payments of these funds. Provided that the recipient is a person of private or public law and is established and acts as a society, private or public institution or institution. Since it is possible to draw on the European Social Fund’s resources to promote the employment of first-time job seekers in the field of social protection, as the Social Chamber of Slovenia is also involved in the implementation of the operation and because it does not have the means to pursue the operation, it is reasonable that the law allows for the pre-payment of funds to that institution. The objective of the operation is to hire 500 trainees with conditions in the field of social protection by concluding full-time contracts for a certain period of up to 12 months for the purpose of preparing for work and strengthening their skills, skills and skills. The proposal therefore extends the range of entities eligible for pre-payment provided that funds for individual purposes are provided in the budget of the European Union. For this reason, as I said in the introduction, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u22	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because this is an implementing law for the implementation of budgets that we do not support. In particular, we do not support the 2010 rebalancing budget, because it is going in the wrong direction, as expected for economic recovery, to address what has led Slovenia to such a large deficit and to such a high public debt. This is not encouraging to raise economic activity, but also to increase tax inflows to cash registers and increase employment and to gradually address complex situations. Budgets and investments are shrinking, you are looking forward to new inflows from raised excise duties and it works pro-cyclically on existing problems. It will further lead to a decline in economic activity, which will reduce tax inflows and increase the types before unemployment offices. Yesterday we were able to hear that the latest data for the month of July is favourable in terms of unemployment, but no one has considered the impact of the season in agriculture, construction and many summer economic activities, not least in tourism, which employs many people every summer. When the fall comes, when the end of this season, when they come to the Employment Institute, young people who finish school will also be able to make the announcement of the prime minister of about 120,000 unemployed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Government would be expected to increase the underlying cause of the situation through the budget rebalancing, to work in terms of increasing economic activity, but of course this cannot and will not happen by removing investments and further increasing tax burdens. The Law on the implementation of the budget also introduces some welcome simplifications, but at the same time we would expect the State to limit the guarantees it gives to rent loans, to limit debt and to behave more restrictively and responsibly towards public finances. The Budget Implementation Act is a kind of formal framework and an act for the implementation of something that we do not support, the real budget for 2010. That is why we cannot support this core document and call on the Government to be more responsible for the stability of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Your Honor! The Zares Group – a new policy with some reservations and warnings supports the proposal for the 2010 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, it is logical that our position is the same with regard to the proposal for a law that further allows the implementation of a rebalanced budget in accordance with the Public Finance Act. The solutions proposed for the Group are acceptable and appropriate. It is appropriate to legalise transfers of rights, expenditure within the sub-programme between those budgetary users who are the proposer of the financial plan. It is also satisfactory to explain why the Social Chamber of Slovenia is also among the beneficiaries of the EU's grant advance. In particular, we support the objective of an operation for the employment of trainees for a maximum period of 12 months for the purpose of preparing for work and strengthening their skills, skills, skills and skills. Special attention is paid to the implementation of Article 2 of the proposed law, however, by specific considerations in the conclusion of contracts which deal with already falling and outstanding obligations between direct users and public economic services. In particular, it is a matter of circumstances and the fact that public economic services are provided in different forms of status, that they are financed differently, that settlement is not carried out in a multi-annual dynamic and, last but not least, that the determination of the volume of outstanding obligations is crucial. This is where our concern comes from. However, it is clear from the explanation that the applicant is aware of this. We expect, however, that appropriate mechanisms will be put in place to monitor these treaties. We're not going to get a contract of dispute instead of a court of law. The Zares Group – a new policy will support the proposed complementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 introduces 3 amendments. After the first amendment, the proposer of the financial plans may decide to redistribute the rights of consumption within the sub-programme under the direct user's financial resources under its competence. This applies in particular to courts, prosecutors and administrative units, and it will be possible to allocate funds between them. The second amendment refers to the possibility of additional payment to economic service providers in the event that the direct user who is obliged to finance the implementation of these services no doubt finds that the provision of public services has been carried out to a greater extent than envisaged and that the method of payment of the additional work carried out is agreed with the operator. The third amendment is that in the DeSUS Group we particularly welcome this novelty brought by the proposal for a law, namely that among operators which can be paid advance payments for European Union funds and Slovenian participation funds of 20% in the value of the planned payments, it also includes the Social Chamber of Slovenia. The direct purpose of this provision is to hire 500 social security trainees who were forced to manage free traineeships because of waiting for European Union funds, since only few employers were willing to hire and give him a trainee's salary. We will therefore support this bill in finding the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented, I apologize, I think that the representative of the LDS Group is not in the Chamber, so we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on changes and additions to the excise legislation in the context of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please, Mrs. Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The adoption of the bill requires two reasons. According to the rebalancing, we intend or wish to provide additional budgetary revenue by means of the proposed law in 2010 and 2011, and to transpose the so-called tobacco directive, which increases the taxation of cigarettes and fine-cut tobacco into national legislation. With the amendment of the law, we propose to increase the amount of excise duty on all tobacco products, cigarettes, finely chopped tobacco and other tobacco for smoking. We also propose an increase in the amount of excise duty on natural gas and electricity, but only for a temporary period. In the field of the burden of tobacco products, an increase in excise duty on cigarettes from €74 to €77 per thousand cigarettes is foreseen as of 1 August 2010. The law also provides for a further increase in excise duty, in half a year, by reaching the end of the year, on 1 October 2012, the excise duty will reach €90 per 1000 pieces. This is the amount fixed by the Tobacco Directive as the lowest and must be reached by each Member State of the European Union by 1 January 2014 at the latest. We'll be a year early. For natural gas, we propose an increase of excise duty to 0.0363 euros per cubic metre. With effect from 1 January 2012, we propose the application of a excise duty on natural gas for propulsion, amounting to 0.0981 euros per cubic metre, and for heating, the excise duty will be reduced to 0.0113 euros per cubic metre, which is a minimum in both cases, as permitted by European legislation. For electricity, the bill proposes that the excise duty should increase to 6.5 euros on 1 August and that it should increase to 12.1 euros on 1 November 2012. In the event of more favourable economic developments during this period, the Government may reduce excise duty by 50 % by means of a sub-legislative act. However, without prejudice to the Government, after 1 January 2012, the excise duty will be paid at EUR 1 per megawatt hour, as is currently being paid. We have repeatedly stressed that the law is necessary to ensure additional budgetary revenue. According to the government's assessment, the government's public finances will increase by around €39 million in 2010 and around €157 million in 2011. The Government has proposed and the National Assembly has confirmed that the law is being examined and adopted in an urgent manner, allowing it to be implemented on several occasions on August 1st this year. Your Honor! If I can get it over with. With the proposed amendment of the law, we want to provide additional budgetary revenue and fulfil the obligation to the European Union by harmonising national legislation with European legislation. In the light of the above, we propose to the National Assembly that you adopt the proposal for a law in the text as drafted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's report will be presented by a member of Bogdan Chapič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting, on 30 June. 6. 2010 as a parent labour body was treated as a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for the treatment and adoption under an urgent procedure. The College of the National Assembly shall be held at its 67th meeting, on 22. 6. 2010, decided on a proposal to deal with the draft law by emergency procedure and also adopted it. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative system and forwarded specific comments to the 2, 3, 5, 8, 11, 12 with regard to Articles 13 and 14 and to Article 15 of the legislative proposal. The Committee was informed of the proposal for the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to Article 9, which provides for the right to refund the excise duty paid on energy consumers, which is now a maximum of 10% of the additional biofuels. The marriage proposal shall be adopted on 30 June. 6. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Coalition SD Group, the amendments to Articles 2, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 were tabled by Mr DeSUS and the LDS. On the same day, the SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 9 of the legislative proposal. Following an introductory presentation of the articles or the resolution of the legislative proposal and the presentation of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the proposal for an additional amendment to Article 15, a longer discussion was opened in the consideration of Article 9 of the legislative proposal concerning the increase in excise duties, natural gas and electricity and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members which opposes the policy of raising such taxes. At the time of consideration of the individual articles of the legislative proposal, the Committee, on the recommendation of the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 15, drafted and adopted an amendment clarifying the text of the final provision. In conclusion, the Minister of Finance concluded the discussion in the context of the comprehensive explanations and the explanation for the submission of the expected excise levies raises, stressing that we are currently in a phase of decisive recovery, which is expected to result in stable economic growth. We note quite a few companies that are rapidly increasing their activity with new products, either using new technologies or with development incentives, while parallel to maintaining stable public finances is undoubtedly necessary. The Committee then adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Articles 2, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the legislative proposal and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 of the proposal was not adopted by the Committee. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all articles jointly and adopted them in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted and supplemented by the draft law which you have received with the material for this meeting, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the current government's tax policy, which, of course, includes excise duties. We are still in the period when economic growth is falling. In addition to the revisions in the export markets segments for domestic demand and activity, growth has not changed. In the first quarter, she even fell. At a time when economic growth is falling, a policy of decommissioning the economy and the population should be pursued, thus creating incentives for further economic growth. The policy that counts for higher inflows to the state budget through increased taxes or through increased excise and other burdens is very shortsighted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the government's confusing policy in the excise area, which shows that the sole objective of excise policy is to patch up an ever-increasing budget deficit. We are missing a long-term concept that would put excise policy in the role of different policies. The basics in this area left by the previous government were good. Two years ago, we had the lowest possible excise duty on oil derivatives and thus a huge reserve for the implementation of effective policies, as well as an increase in inflows to the state budget. By lowering oil prices in international markets over the past 2 years, there has been an open opportunity to manage a well-thought policy, which would mean more resources to the state budget in the face of an unabated additional burden on the economy and the population. That didn't happen. The excise duties have increased beyond all reasonable limits and even so far as the revenues from this Title have begun to decrease, despite increasing tax burdens due to lower consumption. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose this once-in-a-lifetime increase in electricity and natural gas excise duties. The Government defines the increase as a temporary anti-crisis measure, which is yet another evidence of unconstant and confusing policies. Just at a time when we should burden the economy and the population in order to ease the breathing down and get a new impetus, the government is additionally burdening it. What are these loads? In electricity, the increase in excise duties will be reflected from €6.9 million collected in 2009 to €127.5 million in the coming year, i.e. a 19-fold increase. For natural gas, the increase will be reflected from €2.7 million collected in 2009 to €16.3 million, i.e. a 7-fold increase. There are some 150 million euro additional burdens on the economy and the population at annual level. With already increased burdens in many areas and with less economic activity, the Government is patching up an almost 2 billion-dollar budget hole with a re-increasing of taxes. We have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to remove these additional burdens. The amendment was not accepted, it was rejected on the committee. For the parliamentary hearing of today's session, we were able to table for formal reasons an amended amendment that eliminates these anomalies in only 1 part. If you adopt it, after the adoption of the law, we will make an amendment that will follow the objective we intended to achieve by introducing an amendment to the Home Committee by eliminating the enormous and unnecessary additional burden on the economy and the population of excise duties. It should also be said that the burdens on the segment where excise policy should also guide some type of environmental policy, environmental energy policy and this change that we have on the table today does not follow this objective in any part. On the contrary, it imposes additional burdens, by increasing enormously those energy sources, which are a pure source of energy, rather than burdening dirty energy sources or those that represent an ecological burden on the environment. Slovenian economic growth is at risk this year with similar burdens as we are witnessing today. With the change in excise duties and the additional burden on the economy and population of around €150 million per year, this slowdown in economic growth will continue. Therefore, we will not support and vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u34	Your Honor! In the discussion on the budget balance, the revenue side was often mentioned, especially excise duties. In this respect, different positions were taken, even completely contradictory, and it is quick to put the debate on excise duties back into a bearable framework. The excise duties have always played an important role in taxation and are historically much older than the general consumption taxes. "Give me a letter that will be valid in front of every lady, that I will carry English salt without worry around the world," says Levstik's Krapan. Of course, opinions on which items are suitable for excise taxation have changed with economic and social development. In general, the products are still determined by excise duty under a special transport regime or even under a state monopoly. The excise duties are, both theoretically and practically, irrespective of any other claims, among more reliable types of taxes. They are important due to the efficiency of returns and the high inelasticity of demand, but they cause a little excess tax burden. The costs of their collection, which is not insignificant, are relatively low and can be applied well to the principle of benefit or injury prevention. Let me give you an example of cigarettes as well as the environmental benefits that my predecessor mentioned. As a result of flexibility, excise duties are particularly appropriate in adapting to the changed budgetary situation, if justified, a rapid need for additional taxes within reasonable limits. The proposal for a law seeks to achieve two main objectives. 1. wants to fully harmonise national legislation with European legislation and 2. to ensure higher stable budgetary revenues under the conditions of slow economic growth. While we are of the view in the Group that the possibilities for increasing tax burdens are extremely limited. The transparency of this fact would have or would have a negative impact on economic activity and competitiveness. We also believe that the success of consolidation is largely a restructured, efficient and economic spending of the public sector. The Zares Group stresses that it considers raising excise duties on natural gas and electricity to be a temporary and a crisis measure. However, we fully support the rise in excise duties on tobacco products, and ultimately it is a contribution to public health, and the gradual harmonisation of this excise duty provided for in the European Directive is also necessary to prevent the development of the black market. In the given circumstances, when the speed of action is necessary, we are complemented with a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, the Slovenian People's Party opposes the policy of raising taxes or excise duties in times of financial and economic crisis. We only agree with the law in the part where he talks about tobacco excises. Back here are directives and health, as my predecessor has already mentioned. However, we are asked a serious question when we are talking about Article 9 and raising excise duties on natural gas and electricity, as it is certainly also a heavy burden on the economy. When we talk about excise duty on electricity, we are talking about both non-business and commercial use. If we use the explanation of the budget in the work on electricity excise duty, it is noted that this increase at the annual level will amount to around €120 million. Taking into account what is also stated in this explanation that 10.5 million megawatt hours of electricity have been spent in 2009, of which 7.1 million megawatt hours are for business use, we can find that we will charge the economy by about 85 million euros. Almost EUR 100 million will be burdened by the Slovenian economy, which is already one way or another as far as competitiveness is concerned, on the dog. For a specific example of a particular factory, I will give you the information obtained by our fellow Member. Of these 85 million falls to a specific company, €2 million per year. Tell us, how can the company cover these additional costs or additional taxes? This is about €400 per employee per month, and this is probably not the only case for a company that does not fall under excise exemption, as is the case with some other energy-intensive companies. I also agree that there is a need for more attention in the economy to be paid to more rational energy consumption, particularly in energy-depleting production. However, we are also proposing appropriate state aid and, in the next phase, increased taxation where this would not have happened. You've probably also wondered about when you've taken these decisions in the government, that these are serious issues, and that this will also have serious consequences in the economy. There's something else you need to say. The excise duty is based on VAT, which means that the value added tax is also charged to this excise duty, which means that we will charge people additional value added tax costs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we disagree with such a policy and we reject it mainly because it is an additional burden on the economy, not least all of us Slovenes and Slovenians. We think that during this time of crisis we should be doing exactly the opposite in order to relieve the economy but not burden it. The proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, as it is said, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u38	Thank you again very much for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! Let me begin by expressing the position of the DeSUS Group that we are not exactly in favour of the law now before us, namely the amendments to the Excise Act, which seeks only 1 objective. It is an increase in excise duties on tobacco products, natural gas and electricity in order, as the proposaler says, to ensure higher, stable budgetary revenues for slow economic growth. Let me remind you that last year we adopted an increase in excise duty on tobacco products in this National Assembly. Back then, in our Group of Members, we were warned that we were partially disturbed by the reason for such an increase, namely that the increase in excise duty on tobacco products was not proposed because of the concern for the health of citizens and citizens, but only because of the financial impact the proposal will bring to the Treasury. The current amendment, i.e. simply filling a public bag at the expense of an ordinary person and also at the expense of the economy, follows the same purpose. That is why we have great doubts in our Group of Members in support of this proposal. The latter is also evident from our position in dealing with the 2010 budget rebalancing. We therefore reiterate that the main task of resolving the budgetary deficit and saving in general should be to collect from the debtors of the country what they owe to it, i.e. taxes. However, it is not the pocket to hit an ordinary person, whether it is a pensioner or a working person who belongs to a lower middle class and is not entitled to social transfers, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to break and dangerously approach the threshold of poverty from day to day. The government's mockery that it's only 4 euros a month, we can't react in cold blood and just attach it to it. This statement, according to our assessment, suggests a complete lack of awareness of the real situation in our country, because it is not only 4 euros, but it is only 1 post. This means that there is a minimum of 20 euros of inflation at 5 positions, which means a lot to low-income people. Therefore, at this point in the DeSUS Group, we appeal to the Government and, above all, the Ministry of Finance to activate capable people who are able to think more and more innovatively and find solutions, how to increase budget revenues in a different way, not by hitting the pockets of ordinary people. Let me mention in this place the illegal stimulation of electricity, as both the Competition Protection Office and the Supreme Court have found. This is about EUR 15 million obtained illegally by the electricity distributors. For individual households, this means up to EUR 300 of overpaid electricity in numbers. This is where the government sleeps, instead of triggering the illegal billing of electricity, has also punished. In the DeSUS Group, we propose to the Ministry of Finance to consider that the revenue from excise duty on alcohol, cigarettes and chopped tobacco should be directed at the expense of the Ministry of Health, given that the Government in the public sector is justified in raising excise duties with public health care. This would generate a substantial amount of money at the expense of the Ministry of Health, which is one of the most disadvantaged ministries in this rebalancing, which could be used to invest in hospitals that are healing the consequences of excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco products. On this proposal, we have a number of concerns in our parliamentary group on the basis of which Members of the DeSUS, in different circumstances, would not have agreed to such a change if there were no crisis. Now, too, with regard to the rebalancing, we are almost forced to accept such solutions, and today we will also attach a black with an extremely bitter taste. Of course, let me point out that in the coming Member of DeSUS, we are not just going to be a voting machine confirming such ideas without [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. It would've been 5 to 10 seconds. But anyway, thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, good afternoon! The country planned to raise about €1.5 billion of excise duty this year. According to the information known, these excise duties are collected for 500 million. So there's a billion missing. This is supposed to go down at the expense of the elevator. The raise of excise duty concerns cigarettes, alcohol and electricity. The Law on Amendments and Supplementing the Law on excise duty states that the aim of the law is to harmonise national legislation with European legislation. If we're in a club, we have to respect the rules of the game, and that's the way it is. We will respect the rules of the game, but as always, we are more papal than the pope. It is very clear that the Directive establishes a minimum excise duty from 1 January 2011. We have heard just before, we will be 1 year earlier, that this in itself is conditional, simple and simple, because 2 million Slovenians are full of money and live in beautiful times and we will already live with August and perhaps not even raise excise duties. Ensuring higher stable budgetary revenues in slow economic growth is certainly one way, but raising excise duties, which are expected to provide an additional €40 million, will affect the valorisation of salaries in the public sector, the valorisation of pensions and social contributions by raising inflation. This means that there will be an additional EUR 8 million for salaries in 2011, an additional EUR 25 million for pensions and an additional 12 million for social contributions. Now let's add up: we have more than 40 million euros, which will be needed as a result of the inflation generated by the increase in excise duties. This is a very interesting economic policy, which, unfortunately, even those we are trying to get to know and know at least a little, we no longer understand. While personally and colleagues in the Slovenian National Party say that cigarettes should be more expensive and the excise duty should be raised for cigarettes, because it is a luxury that everyone can afford and that luxury should be paid for. The same is true of alcohol. But if this is one of the main reasons for our health, as we have heard, we will raise the excise duty on cigarettes. It is, of course, very unaesthetic to say this at the exact moment when €90 million is taken by the Ministry of Health. So much for the relationship of those who prepare laws and measures to and respect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as raising excise duties on electricity is concerned, it means domestically that people will understand what we are talking about, that if the excise duty goes up, the average household will be given a dozen more for electricity. And let them figure out what that is. Besides, we're having a wonderful affair with electricity. Everything said and written is perfectly logical and humanly normal that a man cannot accept such a law. If this law were to be written in such a way that excise duties on tobacco and alcohol would be raised in order to comply with Europe, with the European rules of the game, and this would happen from 1. First, the Slovenian National Party would be a peaceful and peaceful party for adoption. Thus, for such a marriage, the excise tax will not be absolutely peaceful for, let alone quiet. Once again, I ask the Government to give a little thought to what the consequences of retrograde are coming back through anticipated inflation and increased valorisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All together, welcome, especially to the Minister and to all the secretaries! We have expressed a certain scepticism towards excise duties at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Already at the March session, when we increased excise duties on motor fuels, we expressed certain doubts about the effectiveness of such measures. Today, we see this as an integral, indispensable part of the budget balance and one of the ways in which certain revenue can be provided in the budget balance. There has been a lot of talk about whether these funds can be provided in the field of excise duties on tobacco products and alcohol. I must say that I am pleased that we do not smoke or drink enough Slovenians to provide these resources in these areas, so it is necessary to look for others. However, we are aware that if we do not want to raise others or introduce new taxes, we, as a country, are running out of appropriate instruments to improve the public financial situation on the income side. We therefore accept the explanation that the Government has reached out to increase excise duties on natural gas and electricity as a measure that can temporarily improve the public financial image of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Government, the basic reason for the urgent adoption of the law is the provision of additional budgetary revenue, where the government revenue is estimated to increase by around €39.3 million in 2010 and around €157 million in 2011. Thus, the Law on Excise increases our most problematic excise duties on natural gas by 0.0363 euros per cubic meter and for electricity from 1 August to 6.05 euros per megawatt hour, later on 1 November, then household consumption is the largest, and up to 12.1 euros per megawatt hour. As has already been the case with warnings, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we note that excessive spending increases may have a negative impact on inflation, which will not be very encouraging in the already tight economic and social conditions. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have read particularly carefully the explanation of the law, where the proposed amendment to the increase in electricity charges is a crisis measure and therefore has a limited period of application, which means that after the expected exit from the economic crisis, this measure will be put out. These restrictions are also clearly enshrined in the law. We hope that, by improving the macroeconomic situation of these periods, they will not have to be extended or even reduced. The government has some manoeuvres in excise matters, it also reduces them by regulation or increases them from statutory amounts, so in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we urge the Government to be particularly careful and careful when choosing the amount of excise duties. Last but not least, the increase in excise duties in addition to a certain part of the economy is concentrated on households, and this certainly concerns us. However, we do not have any problems in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia with the increase in excise duty on cigarettes from 74 euros to 77 euros and even later increased since we believe that this is also one of the measures to increase health safety. This measure not only increases public financial revenues but also pursues the necessary and appropriate health policy objectives. We will support the Treasury Act, regardless of the concerns mentioned and only because of the light of the public financial situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. By amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties, we align national legislation with the solutions provided for in the Tobacco Directive. They also allow amendments to excise legislation to provide additional budgetary revenue. On the basis of the amendments introduced by this law, the excise duty on cigarettes will increase from €74 to €77 by 1,000, which is in line with the amendment of the tobacco directive, which provides for an increase in excise duty, as well as by efforts to guide our policy, which will contribute to public health. The Directive provides for gradual coordination and final harmonisation will take place in January 2014. The current practice, ours and other EU Member States, has shown that, in order to prevent the development of the black market for tobacco products, there is a more gradual, multiple increase in excise duties than a single large increase. This is why only part 1 of the harmonisation with the tobacco directive is proposed in the law. It is also proposed to increase excise duty on finely chopped tobacco and other tobacco for smoking. The taxation of these tobacco products is closer to the taxation of cigarettes as it is comparable to that of harmful products. As I see it, we are united here that we have no reservations about raising excise duties on tobacco products. It is slightly different when we talk about amending the Law on excise duties governing the taxation of natural gas by the principles laid down in European legislation. Council of Europe Directive 2003/96 on the reform of the Community framework for the taxation of energy products was adopted by the European Council in October 2003 and entered into force for the Member States of that time in January 2004. Until then, only Germany, Portugal, Austria and France taxed natural gas. Slovenia also adopted this Directive as of 1 May 2004 and, as regards the level of minimum taxation on natural gas, requested a transitional period until 1 May 2014. The European Commission has proposed that it be approved by the European Council on condition that it does not reach 25% before the date of consumption of natural gas in total final energy consumption. Slovenia shall reduce the allowed transitional period by considering the amendment to achieve the minimum excise duty laid down by the Energy Directive. As a result of the financial crisis, the excise duty on natural gas is increasing to 0.0363 euros per cubic metre. However, the European minimum is likely to be reached by January 2012. The law also changes the amount of excise duty on electricity. An increase is proposed in 2 steps, by the application of this Act on 1 August 2010 to 6.05 euros per megawatt-hour up to and including 1 November 2010. By 31 December 2011, the excise duty will be paid at EUR 12.1 per megahour. The proposed amendment is a crisis measure and therefore with a limited period of application, which means that after the expected exit from the economic crisis this excise duty will also be extinguished. The law foresees that this would happen on 31 December 2011. Article 10 gives the Government the possibility that excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages may also be reduced and not only increased as provided for in the current regulation. This eliminates the non-compliance with jurisdiction compared to the action to amend the amounts for other excise products. The bill has certain effects on inflation as a result of the change in the amount of excise duties, and as a result this increase will also have an impact on the valorisation of salaries in the public sector, the valorisation of social transfers and pensions. Assuming that inflation rises by 1% as a result of the increase in all excise duties, it is likely that in the following year, 2011 it will be necessary to anticipate this valorisation for the circus of EUR 46 million. For all of this, the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty will also be supported by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles of the amendment tabled. You've got the amendment 2. Seven. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the loan of the Hellenic Republic within the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u46	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. You have before you a bill that will allow Slovenia to participate in financial assistance to Greece, the Hellenic Republic. The proposed law deals with the loan granted by the Republic of Slovenia to Greece under the same conditions as the other euro area Member States and the purpose of which is dual. First of all, we want the euro area Member States in the spirit of solidarity to help one of us who is in trouble. Above all, this is a law that contributes to the protection of the financial stability of our common currency and the entire euro area. As is known, the Greek Government formally requested assistance from the euro area Member States in April this year, and the International Monetary Fund has failed to obtain sufficient funds in the financial markets. The rest of the euro area Member States were then decided to join the International Monetary Fund to help Greece, and we are also helping ourselves with the movement in monetary and monetary markets. Slovenia, as a small and highly open economy for such stabilisation, is particularly interested. Allow a few words about the loan mechanism itself and a few answers to the concerns we have witnessed in recent discussions. The mechanism is as coordinated as possible to the extent that the Economic Commission for Europe manages the system under the authority of the participating countries and the paying agent is the European Central Bank. As a result, this also means greater credibility for the entire mechanism. The proposed law deals with loans to Greece and is not a matter of recovery. The loan cost is uniform for all lenders and amounts to Euribor plus 300 basis points for loans with a maturity of up to 3 years and Euribor plus 400 basis points for loans with a maturity of more than 3 years. In addition, Slovenia will be able to account for an entitlement of 50 basis points for management costs. Let me reassure all those who believe that the funds will never be reimbursed by the fact that the first tranche has already been paid to Greece on 18 May, of course Slovenia has not yet cooperated with it, in mid-June it paid the first instalment and Greece settled them in a timely manner. The share of Slovenia in the entire loan is up to the amount of our share in the capital of the European Central Bank. This means that Slovenia would provide a loan of up to EUR 387,7 million over a three-year period in accordance with the proposal, but the specific amount of the loan depends on the public debt of the Hellenic Republic. The loan will draw on several tranches from Greece and is conditional on the fulfilment of strict economic policies. They shall first be assessed by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. They must also be confirmed by the Ministry of Finance before each drawdown of each tranche. The main objective of economic policy measures is strict fiscal consolidation, which would reduce the country's general sector deficit to 2.6% of GDP in 2014. I would also like to respond to some of the concerns of individual Members from the debate on the budget balance and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The average gross salary in Greece in 2009 was EUR 25 000 145, according to the OECD. The basic compensation for the unemployed is EUR 454 per month, with allowances based on working age and the number of children. As regards the wage ratio between the public and private sectors, according to the Greek Ministry of Finance, the average wage in the public sector is about 20% higher than the average wage in the private sector, which can be justified as a reflection of the educational structure of the employees. In conclusion, let me reiterate that the proposed law is primarily intended for our assistance within the common currency area. Only with the other Member States of the European Union will we overcome this crisis and Slovenia as a small and extremely open economy should we be particularly aware of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of Mr Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting, on 30 June. 6. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a Hellenic Republic Loan Act submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 67th meeting, on 22. 6. 2010 decided on a proposal for the consideration of the draft law by emergency procedure and adopted it. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system, and, in the legislative and technical context, forwarded specific comments to Articles 1, 3 and 7 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service of the Coalition Parliamentary Group, amendments were tabled by Articles 1, 3 and 4, and on the same day the SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal. In an additional explanation of the articles or the final explanations of the solutions presented, the Minister of Finance stressed that the law in question represents an important contribution to maintaining the financial stability of the euro area on the basis of a guiding and solidarity principle and an integrated principle of proportionality. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further stated that all comments made by that service were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. Various views and opinions were presented on the dilemma at the time of the discussion of the individual articles, and certain concerns were raised. After one of the opposition's rejection opinions, Slovenia has been consistently fighting the crisis to ensure all the rules and conditions of stability as well as the common currency. For that reason, it is considered that the financial stability of the domestic environment is, first and foremost, to be taken into account. In the opinion of the discussers who expressed their support for the proposal, it is not as much for Greece as it is for Slovenia and Europe, but for the rest, our country will be affected. Recovery is provided on the basis of the full documentation and there is no reason to raise doubts in this direction. In fact, it is a question of stability in the euro area and of the final consensus for our common interest. It is true that Greece has failed to fulfil its obligations and responsibilities in the common euro area, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that such a bad operation is spreading to the other European Union countries. So it is up to us to decide whether to continue with the negative effects or to stop them, and that is the point. The Committee adopted amendments of the coalition groups to Article 3, replacing the whole article and Article 7 of the legislative proposal and not adopting the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1, nor the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4 of the legislative proposal. In the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on individual articles of the proposal in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It adopted paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 6 and 8 of the legislative proposal and did not adopt Articles 4 and 7 of the legislative proposal. In the light of the amendments and the articles adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment to Article 3, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and you have it on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u50	Your Honor! In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the euro group Member States had to respond to the current debt crisis in Greece, as this has caused a critical situation in the European Monetary Union. The aid mechanism for Greece, decided by all euro area Member States, is intended to ensure stability and confidence in the euro as a regional and global currency. In doing so, we must not ignore the fact that, according to public opinion polls, Slovenians have more confidence in the euro than in the European Union. We trust the common European currency even more than the military, police or even the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In spite of our commitment to the euro and our trust in the common currency in the Group of Ambassadors, we do note that we are already busy in solving a very complex situation and that helping Greece will be a great asset for us, which will increase our public financial debt, which will therefore affect our credit ratings over the longer term. Moreover, with regard to the repayment of the loan, we express concern that, given the state of the public finances and the political situation in Greece, there is a possibility that Greece will fail to meet the conditions and that we can even expect the possibility of reprogramming the loan that we will give. It is also unclear how the economic and political situation in Greece will develop. What they are and what will be the dimensions, causes, consequences and limits of the crisis. This is one of the most important questions. A predictable and stable social situation is crucial to the degree of effectiveness of any action. Some prominent economists have already pointed out that, at the margins of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union, the issue of moral gambling is also being raised when over-indebted Member States, which should primarily seek and find solutions to their problems at home, are beginning to see such assistance as too self-evident. Some other European countries, notably Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy, also face major public financial difficulties. We therefore welcome the efforts of our Government, which, even after the warnings of the Group of Members, did not unconditionally agree to the provision of financial assistance to Greece, the inclusion of security guards in the contract, the determination of conditions, the level and the price of aid, the distribution of aid to tranches, monitoring, the withdrawal of aid and so on, and committed itself to the future substantial strengthening of discipline in order to ensure a stable euro. In the Group of Members, we point out that solidarity is based on mutual social responsibility and that, in our belief, the Greeks have entered into a debt crisis mainly because of irresponsible behaviour. We therefore see solidarity as mutually responsible solidarity, both with regard to the fulfilment of Greece's obligations and financial market arrangements and the establishment of crisis management mechanisms at the level of the European monetary union as a whole. Despite the concerns expressed and warnings expressed in the Group, we are indeed assessing that Slovenia does not actually have the right choice in case of assistance to Greece, since it is a fundamental issue of the functioning of the European Monetary Union and mutual trust, with all Member States of the Union respecting commitments. Or as European Commissioner for Monetary and Economic Affairs Olli Rehn said: "If you're in there, you're in there and you have to do it right." Not to mention that the proposed law will contribute to ensuring stability in the euro area. Market conditions have already pointed to the possible destabilisation of the area of the common currency. Although we must not accept that one of the most important reasons is the fear that Greece's problems of overindebtedness will cause new problems for European banks that have bought most of the bonds owed by the Greek state. We therefore expect that the European Union will find solutions to this gambling of the banking system in order to strengthen it before banks can find themselves in new problems, as perhaps countries will not be able to repay their debts. At the same time, it is also necessary to prepare the ground for the establishment of a credible European system for the control of all financial institutions. In the Group of Members, we are indeed prepared to support measures that would also include enhanced supervision of credit rating agencies, bank charges and taxation of financial markets, as we believe that those who are and who are still causing the crisis should also bear the costs of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Once again, hello to all present! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would understand the argument that we are also saving our state of public finances in addition to the Greeks, if we knew that Greece was the only example to receive such assistance in this case. Unfortunately, however, we do not know how things will be in the future with regard to the other Member States of the European Monetary Union. We do not know what will happen in Spain, Portugal and so on, so in countries that are often referred to as risky and problematic in the field of public finances. We want to know how we're going to handle things. We believe that this is a rather reckless move by the European Union to resolve the matter as soon as possible, but without serious and serious consideration. How will the matter be resolved in the future if such parties are repeated in the case of other significantly larger countries such as Greece? In order to prevent such situations, the European Union has written down clear rules that each country must adhere to and conditions to be met. These rules have probably not been written just like that and it would be appropriate to respect them and that each Member State seeks to ensure that these conditions and rules are respected and ensured in a consistent manner. Slovenia has been fighting this crisis all along to comply with all these rules and to ensure these conditions. According to our assessment, we will do the most for this common currency of ours if we make our own home fiscal arrangements so that we can ensure the stability of the common European currency, but not that we are likely to help others, to put ourselves in a position where we ourselves will not have a way out. This is what we fear in the Slovenian People's Party Group, especially given the fiscal situation, when we do not know for ourselves what the future lies ahead. We will therefore oppose the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Opinions on the reasonableness of the eligibility of financial assistance to Greece are shared both between us Members and the public. The reason for this type of activity is the question that hangs in the air whether Greece will be able to repay its debt. As a result, even in the event of a negative response, how much this will actually affect our country. Sorry, no one can answer that right now. This is a fact and let us list some other facts. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia avoid the worse consequences of the financial crisis, we strongly tighten the belt. We budget public spending, raise excise taxes and put them on the shoulders of people and the economy. The instance appears after the reduction of health rights, and the legislation has already been incorporated into the Act on the violation of labour rights, in the area of social and protection of the elderly, we do not move from a point of no value, there is an increase in the rent in the municipalities and could still be listed. These are the facts. On the other hand, perhaps too populistly, there is a wide variety of information in the public eye on the living level of Greek citizens and citizens, such as the level of pay in the public sector, the number of public servants, the grey economy, the black market, the carrying out of a separate activity during the time of work, the distribution of money for portable computers to school-bound children, the amount of pensions and so on. There is a great deal of such information that has not been confirmed or denied by the Government or the Ministry. This is why people explain this in their own way and the explanation is that, given that the Republic of Slovenia is facing a budgetary deficit and an increase in public debt and also the sustainability of the pension and health allowance, such financial assistance to Greece would further exacerbate the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It's an extremely risky loan. Economic experts point out that we can forget about the return, as Greece has also received its membership in the monetary union through the provision of modified statistics. 13 and 14 salaries and pensions, unreasonable allowances to pay, inflatable public sector, extremely large volumes of the grey economy, unpaid and unrecovered taxes are an illusion for the Slovenians, and in this regard Greece should have done something on its own before. Greece, as a member of the European Union, should always respect the guidelines of the European Union Directive. Greece was concealing real macroeconomic data, which is unheard of. However, the disclosure of such fraud is not the first in the history of Greece, since it covered the data at the time of entry into the euro area and suffered only slight sanctions. And we could list it. With regard to all of this and other non-real facts, the opinion in the Republic of Slovenia tends to make sense of this financial assistance. It's not just a few flowers, it's 384 million euros. The importance of this has been very well illustrated – that is EUR 523 000 54 gross minimum wages, EUR 701 000 940 cash social assistance, EUR 664 000 120 of previous net pensions, 12 years of student food subsidies, 29 years of student food subsidies. We in the DeSUS Group are also reserved for this proposal. However, we are aware that, in view of the common European area, it is necessary to approach resolution. In addition, we must recognise that the draft law sets out in detail the conditions for the granting of the loan by contributing Members of the DeSUS to the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I don't know why we are actually discussing this and why this point is on the agenda, because in March 2010, the Slovenian government has already made a commitment. Today, in fact, we must deal with it under duress and decide on something that the Government has already committed and concluded without us. And not just that. May is the European Commission on behalf of and on behalf of lenders, and as far as I know, we have already signed a loan agreement. We're talking about an accomplished action. I believe I'll hear it's not like that. But what is the purpose of this national council? The same is true of the Republic of Slovenia's Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area, which we will talk about in the coming days. Then why are we here? Give us a break and let the government do what it wants to do! That's the first essential reason. However, as long as we have this power, at least in the Slovenian National Party, and as long as we are – we have been elected on behalf of the people – we will sit here, we will say what we believe is right and we have proven to be against this law. We will oppose first because Slovenia is both a member of the European Union and the euro area and is also in crisis. Slovenia respects and adheres to the development and stability pact. We have sat and discussed the budget rebalancing, with which we reduce costs and expenditure, we speak and act by squeezing belts in all areas, even in important, vitals and acting if you want to hear this once from our mouth, in accordance with the rules of the game of a club we are in. The country we're talking about today, and we're lending it, under all the cruel conditions we're living in, it's not doing that. He doesn't do that. This is the 1st reason why, of course, we must not support this law. You say, the government and government parties all the time, that with the help of Greece, which we will give, we save ourselves and the common European currency. I'll tell you the whole truth. You know who we're saving? We're mostly saving French and German banks and maybe one of our own. But no one else, no Greek. That's the whole truth. And absolutely no Euros and nothing itself. French, German, and some others, maybe some of our banks. Greece will certainly not be able to repay the borrowed money of European taxpayers for a purely verifiable simple reason, as the interest rate for this loaned money is higher than that of the gross social product in Greece, by continuing to decline in Greece's economic growth. Debt will only increase, and Greece will never be able to return this money in life. The findings of some economists are not negligible, namely those who say that even if Greece went bankrupt, the euro would not go down. Even the other way around. Perhaps it would be better for the Greeks to go bankrupt, because in this case they would have lost mostly foreign banks, not Greeks and us. This is all the truth, and the Slovenian National Party will not, by any chance, support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Say good-bye again! When the Slovenians entered the euro area in 2007 and thus completed another historic project, we certainly hoped for greater prosperity and faster economic growth. This was also followed by a period of great conjuncture and consequently an increase in the purchasing power of the population. Of course, at the time, entry into the euro left negative consequences, such as rapid and hidden price increases for certain products, but the overall picture was both statistical and dynamic effects certainly positive. Even with the advent of the financial and economic crisis, the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the Euro Group, has protected the euro from currency shocks and thus provided us with greater monetary security for all. However, membership in each club unfortunately requires a certain price in one way or another. We will have to pay the price, although not because of our mistakes, but because of the shortcomings in the system, especially in the system of control over public deficits and public debts in certain members of this elite European club. As we are facing today the price of this club membership, the Greek debt crisis, which, due to the integration of the entire system, poses a direct threat to our standard in Slovenia. There is a lot of ink already spilled on this subject and the words spoken about Greece and its problems, but at the same time let us be very careful to note that Slovenia would not, in any way, follow such strange ways. The government, together with other members of the euro area, decided to help Greece in solidarity with a loan of slightly less than EUR 388 million over a period of 3 years. In the LDS, we have already expressed our view that we are, at the principle level, reserved for such measures, as these are primarily problems caused solely by the country's own irresponsibility, which has led to a completely irresponsible public financial policy. On the other hand, in this story, we are prisoners of a higher objective, that is to ensure the stability of the euro area, which requires solidarity from us. This is also in some way a solution to our Slovenian future problems if Greece failed to get out of this crisis. We will therefore support the proposed loan law to Greece at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. But in doing so, we strongly and loudly appeal to the Government, which will have instruments to control and place loans in order to carefully and accurately condition the very restrictive programmes of action of the Greek Government. The envisaged Greek measures must be large enough and effective to make Greece itself the greatest contribution to the relief of its own crisis. Surely in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as well as everyone else, we would like more guarantees for given loans and firm guarantees that the loans will indeed return. However, since this is an agreement at European Community level with the International Monetary Fund, marriage solutions are acceptable to us at this time. In doing so, we point out that, in addition to the proposed stabilisation mechanism in the area of monetary union, preventive action must be strengthened so that we do not face a similar problem again in the future. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we called on Greece not to finance this year's loan of EUR 133 million with additional debt. We are therefore satisfied in this part of the budget rebalancing that other solutions have been sought and the meetings have also been found and that the key to solving the additional debt of Slovenia is not the internal reserve. As we can see in dealing with the balance of the budget, we cannot overjoy these solutions because of the seriousness of the economic situation and the crisis. But it is probably the only way for all of us to get out of this mess together in the area of the euro area. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of the proposed law at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law will make it possible to repay the loan to Greece and thus contribute to ensuring stability in the euro area. The market situation already shows a disproportionate increase in profits and market closure risks for all countries assessed to be in at least a comparable situation. Such a chain effect must be prevented if we do not want its consequences to appear in Slovenia as well. There are also key Slovenian export markets in the euro area, so the possible destabilisation of the area of the common currency would have a very negative impact on the small and open Slovenian economy. Slovenia's dependence on foreign financial resources remains high. It continues to remain at 37% of GDP. As a result, Slovenia remains strongly sensitive to the changing conditions of funding in international financial markets, particularly in the context of increasing the debt problems of some euro area countries. The country's membership in the euro area confers advantages on trade in the single currency, access to financial markets and sources of financing, lower transaction costs and also means greater stability, confidence and security of the financial system. For Slovenia, however, membership in the euro area has certainly facilitated the crisis in this respect during the period of crisis. At the same time, it is understandable that this membership requires responsibility and solidarity with countries in difficulty. Saving Greece, both simultaneously and in a certain sense, also means saving the euro. The possible break of the euro would unquestionably have a strong, negative impact on all its members and also on Slovenia. As developments in the financial markets confirmed Greece's inability to obtain funds on the financial markets, on 7 May 2010 the presidents of the euro area Member States or governments unanimously adopted the decision of the euro area Member States to provide financial assistance to Greece. In addition, a decision was adopted by the EU Member States on the mandate of the European Commission to carry out coordination actions and to carry out the financial assistance mechanism as defined by the euro area Member States in the agreement between the lenders. The agreement between lenders governs the mutual relations between euro area Member States other than Greece with regard to the provision of harmonised bilateral loans under the intergovernmental framework. The purpose of the agreement, whose signatories are lenders, is to empower the European Commission to sign, on behalf of and on behalf of the lenders, loan contracts and memoranda laying down conditions in the field of economic policies on the basis of prior approvals by all signatories. The Agreement enters into force for each lender when the European Commission receives a statement from the lender on the commitment to complete all internal legal procedures in the Member State necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement and I hope that we will support and forward it today. The Group will support the proposal of the Hellenic Republic Loan Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u62	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the Group of Members, the Greek Loan Act, we are talking about almost EUR 400 million, we will not support it. The overall aid package is expected to amount to around €80 billion and Slovenia's contribution is expected to be slightly less than 0.5% in this share. Many arguments lead us to say, given that time is limited, only a few of the most important. First of all, this is an inappropriate way to rescue an over-indebted country. All the countries that have entered the European Union, and in particular all the countries that have entered the European Monetary Union, have committed themselves to respect certain rules, all of them Greece. It turned out that Greece was knowingly concealing data and deliberately displaying a different state from the actual one, not respecting what it had committed itself to. However, those who are members of the club who do not respect the rules of membership cannot be rewarded for this. This assistance to Greece is exactly a reward for non-compliance with the rules. In all clubs, if you don't follow the rules, you have to get out or you're expelled. In the case of Greece, the European Union should take such a path. If the current rules do not allow this, they should be amended. The proposed mode of resolution will only bring the current problems forward in a future period, but it will not eliminate them and the worst part is that, in the coming years, another country can intervene under this scenario. According to this data we receive every day on the table, such a threat also threatens Slovenia. Secondly, lower-standard countries cannot contribute to solving the problems of the country where the standard is higher. That's not fair, and that's not solidarity. Earlier, we heard data from the secretary of state about the average gross salary in Greece – just over EUR 24 000, which means over EUR 2 000 per month, which means that about 40% is higher than in the Republic of Slovenia. In view of all this, it seems that everyone is dealing with the crisis in Greece, but not Greece. Third time, it's not a good time. The Slovenian government requires public officials to cover the 400 million euro belt annually. About as much as this aid to Greece is worth. This requires Slovenian civil servants, not Greek officials. We have heard that the average salaries of public servants or salaries in the public sector in Greece are significantly higher than those in the private sector. There's something else that matters. Once you get a job in the public sector in Greece, you practically can't lose any more. You've been assured of life's security of employment. At a time when Slovenia will have to reduce public spending, which means, and these forecasts are already that it will also have to be cut into public consumption. We hear forecasts of salary freezes, pensions, and transfers at a time when the Slovenian government is providing outstanding aid to Greece, where these rights are at a significantly higher level than they are now in the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, the problems with this help will not be solved, but they will be postponed. This money will be spent and the effects will not be any and all this enormous financial assistance to Greece will not solve the problems that are of a structural nature and which have actually caused Greece to fall into this crisis. There's a lot of talk in this case about solidarity. If there were any natural developments in Greece, other unforeseen events, then aid and solidarity would certainly be on the spot, and I am sure that not only the whole of Europe would respond, Slovenia would be the first to respond. In this case, it is not solidarity, it is silence for someone who did not respect the agreed rules that he had broken, and it is consciously so that he should be rewarded for these violations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this path is wrong, so we oppose it. Greece itself should take several concrete measures to remedy the situation and regulate the functioning of the country. It should establish rules of action in a number of segments, as is the case in all other European Union Member States. It should increase the collection of taxes, rationalise public spending, make the country effective, and in such a case, any long-term assistance would also be effective. Only then could broader aid be considered, especially in the aid of Slovenia. Until then, Greece should be excluded from the European Monetary Union system and the re-engagement of these reforms that I have discussed earlier should be linked. We will vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for all these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. You have an amendment review ahead of you. There are two amendments to Article 3, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition parties. I would like to draw your attention to only one editorial correction to the amendment of the coalition parties, in the 3rd indent, where it says 'the period of availability of the loan since the fulfilment of the condition referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article'. That's all and the amendment has already been tabled. Anybody want to talk? An amendment has also been tabled. Anyone want to discuss these two amendments? I'm opening the application. Mr. Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u64	I mentioned earlier that this type of rescue is not appropriate and will not constitute a solution in this country in the long term. There's gonna be a lot of money running out, irreparable. We already know today that Slovenia will never get the money back. In some ways, they will be saved through this aid mainly by German and French banks, but this is not a matter that should burden individual Member States of the European Union. In particular, not those in which the standard of her people is lower than the standard of people in the country of aid. For the first time, this is inappropriate, and for the second time, it is unfair. It's not about any solidarity, but it's about silence for someone who hasn't followed the rules of the game in years who, at the moment he entered the European Monetary Union, kind of did it with a fig in his pocket. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, while the two essential articles were not voted on by the Committee, it is said that even in coalition lines there is not exactly one single support for this concept of rescue, we have proposed at least one guardian to limit the duration or withdrawal of this loan to the decisions of individual tranches in the National Assembly. In order to obtain some information on what and how this country will happen in the coming months, which measures will be taken, and that this National Assembly will have at least a short period of time to decide that this aid will be frozen until measures are taken as they should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u65	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. The way in which Europe, and in particular the way the Slovenian government has dealt with it, solves the Greek problem of financial discipline, financial speculation, if called by the right word, is, in fact, tragic for the future fate of the euro area and for European finances. They should require strict financial, disciplinary conditions to be met in advance before they go into lending before they grant funds for this. Now it's the other way around. It can therefore happen that this will not help Greece, but that it will be the resolution of financial speculators. Even so, the path that Europe has chosen is a bad path and is indeed conditioned, not by its love for Greece, but by the fact that some of the largest members of the European Union have a large share in the Greek financial institutions. In particular, Germany and France indirectly finance their own banking system and rehabilitate it because of the Greek story. At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the poor policy of the Slovenian government, which requires Slovenian employees to tighten the band at close to EUR 400 million, in order to allocate the same EUR 400 million to Greek civil servants for their 13, 14, 15 and even 16 salaries, which are already half higher than the average wage of Slovenian civil servants. Of course, that's unfair. This is something completely different from the stated policy of this government and the fact is that it is highly likely that these funds will at least be reprogrammed if not even written off in time. In fact, it is a gift to people who have financially speculated on some very important European economy, namely Greece. It is also true that Slovenia has, in some way, a parallel to this funding in this same budget, as this same budget is now allocated funding, to the resolution of real estate and financial speculators in Slovenia. For this reason, I should point out that there is only one message that should come from this national assembly today to the Slovenian Government and to all its supervisory institutions. The resolution of financial and real estate speculators is not in the Slovenian national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u67	Anyone else want a word, please? Check-in is on. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In this case, we could say that the hungry crow is asking questions. The fact is that some civil servants in Greece also receive 16 salaries, and the months are 12. In our public sector, we are tightening the belt. This is the wrong world. We will now support those who have 16 salaries in the public sector. Even more sense at this point is that this point of assistance to Greece is being dealt with in the context of the budget's rebalancing, when we find that we are squeezing at all ends and places, that we have too little money for health care and also for public servants. However, we give just so uncritically to Greece and to Greek public servants. Of course, I support the amendment we have proposed, there is no doubt about it. We support speculators, both foreign and Greek. The Greek government speculated with billions of euros, notably by issuing public shares, government bonds and the like, and the biggest investors in these Greek public bonds are French banks. One fifth of this deficit, which the Greek government may be paying now, is from French banks, so it is not surprising where the strongest voices are to help Greece. In fact, it is not about helping Greece, but it is about foreign banks that have speculated with the Greek state institutions. I was very careful when a representative of the government said that this assistance to Greece was essentially helping us. According to the information we have, which is also public, Slovenian financial institutions have also helped with this speculation in Greece. Slovenian banking institutions are supposed to be involved in this mess, in speculations worth € 119 million. Since the Government has not told us and explained to us which Slovenian public financial institutions have so much money to speculate on Greek securities, I cannot support this proposal of the Government by any chance, because I am very interested in which Slovenian financial institution has so much money. How many of these institutions have been able to spill into speculative securities EUR 119 million. It would be time for the government to tell us clearly, at least for some, to tell us; I think they are also in majority state ownership. Until we know this, I will not vote in favour of this proposal from the Government. But I will vote for our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u69	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased to learn from all Members that there has been a crisis, not only in Greece, but a global financial crisis, which is mainly the result of speculative financial capitalism. The fact is that we are facing the consequences of speculative policies that have unfortunately prevailed in recent decades and now we have to settle accounts for such policies. However, in the case of our loan to Greece, it is not only about the rescue of Greece, that is, one of the Member States of the European Union and one of the euro area Member States, but mainly about the resolution of the stability of the euro. If we are aware of this, we cannot accept the price calls and estimates that the Greeks do not deserve any solidarity because they have 13, 14 or 15. We can see that, for the first time in this crisis and in the search for solutions, the Commission has demanded the transparency and transparency of Greek finances for the first time. She found out a lot, let's say that out of the 16,000 pools, only 300 were reported to the tax office. The fact is, we are dealing with a society and an economy where there was no financial discipline. But because of the crisis and the resolution of this crisis, this is the first time transparently discussed and action is required. Don't worry, if not Slovenia, for sure, the European Commission and even more the world monetary fund don't give anything for free, nor does Greece. It is precisely this aid that provides for the resolution of Greece's financial crisis through financial discipline. This is an opportunity for financial discipline to be established in Greece. Slovenia participates as a bypass country, which allows with its significantly better position to credit Greece's rehabilitation with better conditions, it is only for this and the public should be told that we do not simply give money from the budget, but on behalf of Greece or on behalf of the European Union, a loan for Greece's rehabilitation under strict conditions that this rehabilitation provides. Therefore, the SDS amendment itself is irrelevant, as the coalition has already tabled a better amendment, which also provides for reporting to the National Assembly on this gradual lending. There's no way this kind of help could strengthen speculation. Reverse. It is this help that will also establish order in Greece. If we're not aware of this, we've missed the address. The demagogic call to let things go is not only demagogic but extremely dangerous. If someone wants to break up Europe, please choose if this is the purpose of those who call for non-action. We will be able to face much worse problems tomorrow. But not because we saved this black hole right now. Do you remember Bush and then Obama's politics when a financial balloon appeared in the United States? He was acting on a state injection. At that time, he was criticized for this financial injection. But if it weren't, we'd probably be facing chaos today. Not just in the United States, but with global chaos. We are all aware that this also means helping large banks. Absolutely. This is the contradiction that I deeply regret because those banks have created these financial balloons and supported financial speculations. At the same time, we are trying to prevent a worse catastrophe with public money. That's right. There is also the possibility that many will benefit from this. This possibility exists, but the conditions laid down by the European Commission, the European Banks, the World Monetary Fund and ultimately our government, and the amendment proposed by the coalition, also reduce the possibility of such non-discipline and speculation to the fullest extent possible. This approach is therefore to be supported because it is the only sober and only responsible for the euro and the European Union. It is the only one that is in line with the guidelines of the major countries of the European Union. If anyone thinks that we are so independent that we are not bothered and tangulated by the common interests of the European Union, he has not understood the essence of this society at all. Without a stable Germany, France, Spain, Greece and Slovenia will not have a stable euro. Therefore, if there is still time for action, let us act. This is the move of the Government, which by the way proves that Slovenia is still among those countries that can help and not among those who expect this assistance. I believe that this disturbs the opposition a little bit, because in fact this law already contains a message that Slovenia is still quite firm on its financial legs and, just as we have mentioned many times before, the balance is intended to do so. Everything we've decided and what we've discussed actually proves that. That is why I will not support this amendment, but I will support the amendment of the coalition. Once again, let us not forget that if the breakup of Yugoslavia started with financial non-discipline in Belgrade and all centrifuge stories have happened, this can happen to the European Union tomorrow. But to prevent this, let us not forget that Yugoslavia was not a democratic creation. The European Union was created on the basis of democratic decisions and the independent decisions of the nations and the countries that make up it. For this reason, the European Union would not wish such a breakdown and would not have allowed any government, such as the Slovenian government, isolation in this common Europe, and I think it is our duty to help us take into account the spirit of solidarity not only with Greece, but also solidarity within Europe and, above all, within the euro area. If the euro breaks down, I don't think that would work without the political and national consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u71	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Surely, Members and Members of Parliament do not know what the Government is talking about behind the back, as this has also been seen on the Committee on Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have tabled an amendment precisely from this point of view, because it is not clear why we are giving this money, what measures the Greek Government has actually taken, what will this money do, how will the economy be saved, whether this money is for French banks, for foreign banks that have invested money in this country. In Slovenia we have too many problems and too many holes where we could give this money, but we are always the first to want to prove ourselves. I think the government wants to cloud Slovenian citizens with this move so that they do not see the economic and overall situation in Slovenia of our people, our economy. Here I see again, as it is written on this invitation, which is with a rainbow and a kitchen of a measure of everydayness. I understand that everyone needs help in the crisis, but first everyone has to put it in front of their own door and make order, because others can't do it to him. But if we put money in a bag with a hole in it, believe me, it's going to flush like it flushed a lot of people. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed an amendment to obtain clear views and clear answers on what this money is meant for. Or do Slovenians expect an island in Greece to do this? We don't know. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I called in for the replica earlier, and you didn't give it to me. The Rules of Procedure state that if the discussion of the previous debater was misunderstood and the debater discussed it this way, he has the right to a replica. I wanted to tell Mr Yuri that he misunderstood me in the implementation of the amendment, because he said that the amendment of the coalition groups was the same as the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u76	That's not true. If you allow me, I will put forward a proposal in the end because we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that each single tranche be decided by this national assembly. One more thing. These illusions, which Mr Yuri has on the financial situation, do not hold. On the SDS website, you can look at the counter, where the debt number of the state budget is 11 billion 728 million 516 thousand, and I cannot quote further because it is increasing by 40 euros every second. My procedural proposal is, in the future, to request you, Madam President, to give a replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in such a case as this [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will do the same for the future, as I have done today, and I will assess that this is not a replica, and I insist. However, I tell you that you have taken advantage of the procedural proposal and responded to the Member of Parliament. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly present the Government's position on the amendments tabled and to respond to some of the points made so far. The amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS Group contains 2 key amendments or innovations. In the first paragraph, it states that the country of Slovenia should be compensated at 300 basis points instead of 50 basis points, which is in the basic proposal of the law. I must point out that the first paragraph of Article 3 accurately summarises the terms of the loan contract which are harmonised between all Member States of lenders. Therefore, the adoption of different conditions in Slovenian law would be incompatible with the harmonised loan agreement between the Member States and would pose an insurmountable problem in the implementation of the mechanism we are hearing with this bill. However, another amendment to this amendment states that each tranche should be decided by the National Assembly and not merely to be informed as envisaged in the amendment of the coalition groups. We note that such a way of approving individual tranches constitutes a significant time and administrative obstacle to only granting individual tranches of loans. We estimate that, in view of all the other procedures provided for by this Act or carried out prior to the introduction of the bill into the legislative procedure, they are inappropriate and unnecessary. In any event, the Government will report to the National Assembly on all potential approved tranches on a quarterly basis. In view of the fact that it has been mentioned several times that the Government has taken action in this area alone and without the consent of the National Assembly, once again, in accordance with the law governing cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly in European matters, a joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs was held on 6 May, which confirmed the proposed measures on the basis of the proposed agreement between the lenders, the proposed loan agreements and the Memorandum of Understanding. The Memorandum of Understanding sets out the precise measures to be undertaken by the Hellenic Republic in order to receive the assistance of other countries included in the euro system. I'll just say global numbers. Greece has committed itself to increasing the revenue of the state budget by 6,5 % by 2014 and to reducing expenditure by 6,6 % of gross domestic product. In order to achieve these objectives, the Greek Government has already launched measures this year to reduce the income of public servants, so that all salaries are nominally frozen and all allowances are abolished in terms of possible regression, Christmas, Easter supplement and so on. Of course, additional measures will be needed, but the initial measures are given. Let me further mention that both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund quarterly assess the fulfilment of individual conditions or individual indicators to which Greece has committed itself and if any of these reports were negative, the approval of the next tranche under the loan contract cannot be granted. It was mentioned that the exposure of Slovenian institutions to Greece was due to speculation. The situation in which the Slovenian institutions are located, covering some EUR 120 million, is the result of the purchases of Greek bonds carried out by the Slovenian financial institutions. We cannot say that this is due to some speculative behavior, but it was purely adequate business. It was mentioned that Slovenia is isolated or autonomous and the first of all is included in the aid mechanism for Greece. All Member States have already completed internal legal procedures other than Slovakia, which, due to the election of the new government, is somewhat late, and Slovenia is completing this obligation in some way today. Why do we propose this bill on budget rebalancing? Notwithstanding the fact that, for this year, the maximum possible quota that falls away from Slovenia – € 133 million – does not require additional debt, the balance of the budget in Balance B should provide an adequate legal basis for the actual execution of individual transactions. So much for the key arguments that emerged in the debate. Finally, let me mention once again that the Government cannot in any way support the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS Group, while supporting the amended amendment of the coalition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u79	Anyone else want to discuss these two amendments? Only Mr Jerovšek raised his hand, but there is no time, you have already spent it. Anybody else want some? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 12.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 26th extraordinary session, which we will continue by vote at 12 noon and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u80	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on the decision of the proposals. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that we will first vote in the framework of the budget package of acts on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise and on the Proposal for a Law on Loans to the Hellenic Republic. After voting on the proposal for the 2010 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the amendment you received at Club 2. Seven. 2010 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u81	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, Minister! With the amendment, I'm sorry. [[...]] I thought we were on budget. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u82	No, we're on excise duty. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 33. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that, in its second reading, the National Assembly has adopted amendments to Article 15 of the Act's amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I'm guessing he wants to. [[...]] Please, Mr. Kontic, you have the floor. Would you like to table the amendment? Thank you very much. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue after the 4th item of the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Hellenic Republic's proposed loan law as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 6. Seven. 2010 We first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the coalition groups under point 2 will be irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3. You have also received a correction of this amendment on the table and we are voting on the amended amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I'm guessing they don't want to. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted at the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u83	We will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party for a number of reasons. One of the fundamental reasons is that this is an inappropriate way to rescue an over-indebted country. A country consciously concealing information that violated the rules of the game for which it committed itself will now be rewarded. If someone is a member of a club, and the European Union is such a club, and does not adhere to the rules of the game, then there are only two options – whether such a member who does not respect the rules of the game is expelled from the club or has to leave the club alone. If the European Union wanted to adequately address the problems that Greece has today, it should exclude Greece from the European Monetary Union. If the rules of the game do not allow it to do so, it should amend these rules, require the State to consolidate public finances and take all other measures in order to enable that country to take the path that all other European countries have embarked on. In this way and so quietly, the problems Greece has will not solve, nor will it, as we see, because all other countries are dealing with this crisis, except Greece. On the other hand, it is inappropriate for countries with lower standards to resolve problems than the country that has entered this crisis. What is important in the case of Slovenian situations is also the inadequacy of the moment. The aid of around EUR 400 million will be voted out, as the National Assembly today shows, at a time when the Slovenian government of Slovenian citizens is demanding Slovenian civil servants to compress the belt about the same amount – for EUR 400 million. This aid comes at a time when the Slovenian government requires Slovenian pensioners to agree to a reduction in pensions, because the freezing of pensions means in these situations, as we are today, their reduction. It's not a good time. Most importantly, even if this aid is granted, it is a huge €80 billion issue at European Union level, the problems in this country will not be solved. There is a need for large-scale and structural reforms in this country, and public finance, public sector employment, tax collection and more needs to be tackled. If these processes do not happen and there is no indication that they will, then this help will also come to nothing. Most importantly, you, at this point in your decision, know that these 400 million euros will never come back. I think it is an inappropriate moment, an inappropriate attitude towards our citizens and an inappropriate way to save those who say we will be in the Slovenian Democratic Party against.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I very wisely urge you to consider which button you will press. It's right and nice to respect your government and obey it. This government has made its promise, and today you are saving by pressing a button just a promise, a moral commitment to the government, and you have no idea what you are going to do with these people. I'll tell you one more time, it's purely untruth that we're saving Slovenia and Europe. What a lie! Once again, I guarantee that Slovenia, as well as the other countries, will save large German and French banks buying bonds, these bonds have failed and large German and French banks will fail. But they won't, because we're gonna help these banks, not people! Those who will press for this law will remember today and remember it in a year or two, as you will fall into even greater misery not only of the Greeks, but also of the Slovenians, your Slovenian people. That's exactly what I'm saying. This isn't about political views right now. That's the truth. The macroeconomic indicators are perfectly clear, colleagues and colleagues, if interest on such loans is greater than GDP growth, then such a credit is not able to be repaid by a living god and Greece will not, will not! We'll have the debt! If we also adopt the law before us on the guarantee and guarantee of Slovenia, the company already established in Luxembourg, including all the guarantees and guarantees that Slovenia has already given and the situation we have and, of course, our positive attitude towards the European Union. our concern and saving, Slovenia will fail. Greece will not be saved, Slovenia will fail, and I will not afford it to you, nor to myself, but at least to Slovenia and Slovenia. We'll vote against it! We'd like to help in any other way, but we won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Dr. Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u87	The Group of Social Democrats undoubtedly supports such a law and supports it because it is aware that when we look at the whole picture we see that it is not about any assistance to Greece, but about the necessary measure, the stabilisation of the euro area and the stabilisation of finance in Slovenia as well. This is the help to stabilise the euro we need, if anyone needs it, most specifically in Slovenia. Because if we let an infection that is shared by the same currency spread from Greece, we can soon be in trouble in Slovenia. Not because our finances would be at all difficult, but because when investors start fleeing from an area that is unstable because of one part, in this case Greece, they only find themselves in those parts that are most secure and safe. At the moment, these are the United States of America on the one hand and Germany on the other. If we want to avoid the problems of infection that Greece can spread to Spain, Ireland and so on and if we do not want this disease to spread, we must stop it now. If we wait, the consequences of the rescue costs will be significantly worse. This aid has nothing to do with, in our view, the issue of standards. We, too, want Slovenia to reach, not only as soon as possible, but beyond the standards of average in the European Union and beyond. This has nothing to do with the question of public finances in Greece, but with the question of the stability of all of us. It is not true that everyone other than our Greek partners is involved in this, and we must all deal with it together. We all know what Greece is doing to save its finances. Among other things, it has already raised VAT from 21% to 23%, an essential measure. We are primarily married because we have learned something from history, especially from very close history and also from the story of Lehman Brothers. When that financial institution collapsed, everyone said we should let it go, and the result was a credit and financial crisis. Because we do not want the same thing to happen in Europe, where we believe that if we leave someone alone, he will heal himself and, knowing that this infection will spread, we want to stop it at this point not because of the Greeks and Brussels, but because of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of Franco Juri's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u89	The explanation of vote is usually a repetition of the above. We discussed this twice, and I will say again why I will vote in favour of the loan to Greece. Because it is a matter of helping Europe, it is a step that places Slovenia around those countries that can still help tackle this financial disaster, which will deepen if we do not immediately remedy the Greek situation. Because also with assistance, and let us make this clear to the public, we are also making demands and implementing them, namely, requirements for greater transparency and greater financial discipline, both in Greece and in other countries. This aid is highly conditional and not only a few banks but also the whole European Union, the euro area and the International Monetary Fund. No one gives and no one offers anything for free, but in this aid are installed all the fuses that have only ensured that this recovery will also be successful. The Greeks cannot afford any broad interpretation of this aid. It is therefore worth supporting the Government's proposal and ensuring a solidarity mechanism that can come to all countries and, above all, to the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u91	In the Slovenian People's Party, we have decided to vote against this and I will vote on it myself. Today we are talking about the package, including the budget and the currency infection. It seems to me that the arguments which convey this infection in a similar way as we have fought against swine flu in the past, if you allow the entire European Council to buy vaccines, even here do not fully understand those who advocate these matters, because this infection is nothing more than what we are doing today in Slovenian finances. This isn't an air infection, with a plane to other countries, but this infection can't control its own finances, and it's proven in Greece. Slovenians certainly have something to learn from history, we can learn from our recent history, which has not been measured since Lehman Brothers failed, but has been measured since the collapse of the Yugoslav dinar, which has had similar root problems, such as that those who run public finances are unable to reconcile and need about a third more than they create. Unfortunately, this infection is happening here today in Slovenia and today those who are against this infection will also support this infection for Slovenian finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u93	This decision was taken unanimously by the leaders of the euro area countries on 5 May. I wonder what would be the position of one of these parliamentary parties today, who, with great populism, would be an irresponsible populism in this Parliament if another Prime Minister represented Slovenia at a meeting of the leaders of the euro area countries. The lesson of this crisis is that it came from a life of opportunity, so there has been a real estate balloon in the United States and that is why, in this new stage of this crisis, the Greek crisis has given a new impetus to the economic crisis in Europe. It is up to us whether we will solve this crisis or stand by and wait for it to crush us. We offer a responsible response here by the Social Democrats and the Coalition, and this is to provide a loan that is more favourable than Greece is today able to obtain in order to reprogram its obligations, while making sure that the necessary structural reforms are carried out at home in order to adapt its public finances to the capabilities of the Greek economy. This is a homework that we both have in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe, especially in Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ireland. That's what we need to follow. Not only are we not saving Greece alone, but we are saving this basic infrastructure, which creates a bloodline for the entire European economy. I do not want to see the consequences on the Slovenian economy, on our access to financial resources if there is no such measure and I vote in favour of the law for these responsible authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u95	The unfortunate decision of the leaders of the European Union to grant financial assistance to Greece before it establishes appropriate control mechanisms and proves financial discipline and order in the field of public servants and public finances is a catastrophic precedent that can permanently weaken the entire euro area, distort the quality of life and will be a long-term significant obstacle to establishing the euro as one of the leading global currencies and even as an alternative to the US dollar, which has long been dreamed of, and now will remain only a dream. In the Slovenian government, the fact is that during the same period as the Slovenian civil servants and all employees are required to cover the 400 million euro band is precisely the same amount for Greek civil servants who have 13, 14, 15, 16 for half the salary of Slovenian public servants. When trade unions raise their voice against this and disagree with such behaviour, social dialogue is broken down as one of the key values on which Slovenia was established as a single country. That is why today, in my opinion, a single fact is essential for a decision. We make it very clear that the resolution of financial and real estate speculators is not in the Slovenian national interest, is not in the interest of the European Union and is a developmental destructive concept. In the long run, it leads to the destruction of growth and the weaker euro, and thus to a lower quality of life for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and the European Union as a whole. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will vote against it because we do not vote in favour of Greece, nor is it true that we are helping ourselves. However, we support disproportionate rights of the Greek public sector, at a time when the Slovenian public sector has to tighten its belt when even without agreement they are threatened with having no rights that they have already acquired, while some in the Greek public sector also have 16 salaries per year. These are disproportionates and we cannot just walk through this peacefully in Slovenia. With such information, we could say calmly that this is the case when a hungry crow has pies. The fact is that the whole world has known for many years that, irrespective of the Government, the Greek governments have speculated with their government bonds and securities. The financial institutions were happy to involve themselves because they were all counting on the fact that if government bonds were, they would always get the money back, no matter what happened. But we know who's paying. Financial institutions certainly don't. The fact is that the Slovenian financial institutions are also involved in these speculations with Greek bonds. This money was €119 million, and the government did not prepare this data so that when we have to decide on this big money, about €400 million, we get information that the Slovenian financial institutions have also speculated. In fact, we are now giving money to these financial institutions to regain their speculation. This is, of course, unacceptable, and the government should do so. Finally, I should also be allowed what happened to others, and I would ask how the ruling coalition parties today would speak and vote if the Government were different in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest in explaining my voice, I'm opening the application, but I'm not asking for it, but I'm opening it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Luke Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Because there's a question in the air without getting the right substantive answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u100	Luke Yuri is no longer in the debate. Just an explanation for the voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u101	I answer to myself when I decide how I will vote that if I were in a different situation, I would probably decide to vote responsiblely, and for that reason, I will no doubt confirm this loan, the loan is not aid, because I know that the other option to leave one of the partners who shares our currency to the detriment of it would hurt us and would mean that in a few months, we should be dealing with the euro falling apart in the whole of the European Union. I do not want this because I want a strong European Union, because we can all be stronger together in a strong European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u103	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! It's very easy to share what's not yours. It's very easy to do that. This coalition is doing just that today. My friend, I'm not gonna name him who discussed it in front of me, I'm asking. Is he willing to give a third of his salary to the Greeks to remedy the situation? Let him say that, but not to share the money that is tax-paying, created by Slovenian people, those who work for holidays, at night, Sundays and so on. Those who decide to give this loan to the Greeks today, you take away exactly what is theirs. That little thing they're having right now. They have almost empty wallets anyway. Today, it has been said many times that it is taken by pensioners and public servants. On the one hand there are excise duties, new taxes and so on, and on the other hand almost EUR 400 million is a problem for the Greeks, and we know exactly that we will never see this money again. If this is the responsible decision of the coalition in front of the Slovenian nation, then let him take me so I won't say anything. This is the extreme thing that you can do to the detriment of this Slovenian nation, Slovenian man and those people who have to work for every euro, in addition to all the things you are already accepting, to the detriment of this Slovenian nation, Slovenian man and those who have to work for every euro, and finally allow yourself to make such decisions and solutions. That's extremely irresponsible. But I think that at the end of the day, citizens and citizens will tell their names when the time is right or wrong. I will vote against this law because I am sure that it is against the Slovenians and the Slovenians and that is why we have also said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers! Greece took more than it created. Greece also covered what it had spent. Greece lied and stole. These manners are saved by paying those who have not done so and paying them back instead. I wonder, because you vote with full consciousness for such a law as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u106	Comrade Pukšič, please do not refer to other parliamentary groups, you must talk about your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u107	I wonder who Minister Luksic's invitation to tender was sent to on Friday because he wrote in financial terms that the value of an investment without VAT must exceed EUR 5 million and must not be less than 45 % and that the operation must be completed 31. 12th in this year. How much of this investment do we have in this country? As much as we have Greece in this Europe. And here you'll do the same. I'm ashamed to watch this, so I'm going to vote no.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. With this thing, it's just the way it is. You have to be realistic here, too. It is true that, at the time of its decision on 5 May, Slovenia probably did not have any eternity in Europe. Even if Slovenia voted against it in Europe, the question is whether anything would succeed. Europe has made this decision and the coalition is forced to do what Europe has decided. But this is where anachronism occurs. Perfect anachronism is that in Greece they make a lot of money, they have big pensions, big social allowances and everything else, and that our people have half of it. Now let our people solve the situation in Greece. I, I think around May 10th, in a local newspaper, made it very clear that my finger goes against the button before this marriage even came to Parliament. Simply because my conscience would not allow me to do so, regardless of the commitments in Europe and whatever other things the coalitions are forced to do. I'm aware of that and my conscience is, of course, on the side that it's called "I can't." I cannot support the situation, which is said to be that the Slovenian will pay the Greek, who has so-called cheating and lying and has even a better life today, and he will have a better life tomorrow than that of a Slovenian man, that our citizen is now obliged to pay 190 euros. My vote is against, as I have predicted long ago, when this law was not yet in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I will vote against the adoption of this law myself. However, I must say that developments in the euro area have been of great concern to me mainly on the basis of poor experience from our former common country. The situation is now repeating itself in the euro area. I would like to point out that one of the reasons for the collapse of the common country of Yugoslavia was also the intrusion of Serbs into the monetary system, something similar to the Greek story now. I would mention this intrusion, by the way, that the then vice-governor from Slovenia has also greatly contributed to his passivity. The consequences are already here. The euro has already lost more than 20% against other currencies and everything shows that the case has not yet stabilised. Otherwise, there are no more drastic jumps, but it's still detectable a slight fall against the dollar. If they're not this year, they'll be safe next year. Strategic raw materials and energy products are purchased on the basis of future contracts and it is now very important which currency is in this future contract. Already expensive oil can also be strongly stimulated by the poor exchange rate of the euro, and this will have consequences for life in Europe. It will be necessary to look again for what we had in Yugoslavia – a strong currency with which we will save, because because of the Greek crisis, this euro is obviously gone. The matter is not a help, but it is a mere and poor example that the Spanish, the Portuguese, the Irish, the Italians and, of course, we will probably follow. Finally, I would mention that EUR 400 million is the price of two highly technologically developed factories, such as the Sava in Kranj, called Sava Tires, an American tire manufacturer. Once again, 2 Savi Kranj is an extremely irresponsible act, so I am voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We're voting on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 34. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise in the framework of the urgent procedure. We're at 3rd reading of the Amendments are being tabled. Although I've already received the amendment tabled. You obviously didn't. I hereby grant a five-minute suspension to divide the amendments and then to proceed with the third hearing, as envisaged. We'll continue our session at 13/11.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u113	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session and with the end of item 3 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment and the article. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that you should reject the amendment tabled by the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups, because this amendment is diametrically opposite to what we have accepted a few minutes earlier. I must remind you that in this mandate we have met many times with this case of diametrically opposed amendments, when you have prevented such amendments from even being divided, not just to vote on them. I suggest that, in accordance with your current practice, you do exactly the same as you did in cases where we have tabled amendments with the law. I note that this amendment is diametrically opposite to what we have accepted and we cannot, in fact, discuss or vote on this amendment. It is very unfair, however, that the coalition is proposing an amendment to something that was adopted a few minutes ago and otherwise, as envisaged by the coalition. Dear President, I think you must have the same vat in all cases, both when we propose certain matters to the opposition groups and when the amendment is being tabled by the coalition. So diametrically opposite to the rules of procedure cannot be interpreted. I suggest you find that this amendment is diametrically opposed to the adopted amendment to the excise law, that you complete the procedure and then we normally vote on this bill. Everything else we are going to do or what you are going to do next, I do not think it is in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, procedure, democracy and not in the spirit of the Constitution of Slovenia. At least what we expect from the President, in this case the President of the National Assembly, is to measure all matters with the same vats, no matter where they come from, either from the opposition or from the coalition. I suggest you reject this proposed amendment and move on to the third reading of the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I will reject this proposal. I am forced to reject it because it is not true that it is a type of amendment that we have sometimes doubted or should not be voted on. It's the mirror opposite, not the diametric, but it's a big difference, but let's talk about it for someone else, and I'm looking forward to it. We have had several debates on the exclusionary amendments. The purpose of the third reading is to allow amendments to the articles that have been amended. Such an amendment has been tabled, so I am obliged to put it into debate and decision-making. I'm asking again if anyone wants to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 34. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u116	Some in the hall have changed their mind within minutes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we remain in the same position and will oppose this law. We're going to stand up to him for a number of reasons. At a time when gross domestic product still declines when the economy needs fresh capital, this government increases taxes. The raise of excise duties that you have on your desk today amounts to €150 million in new charges on higher taxes on electricity and natural gas in 1 year. In electricity, this excise duty rises by 19 times — from €6.9 million to €127.5 million — and for natural gas by 7 times — from slightly less than €3 million to almost €17 million. Economic growth cannot be encouraged by additional taxation between the economy and the population. The few initiatives that have taken place in the past period, at the expense of measures taken in other countries and which have revived certain export-oriented industries, will be suppressed by this additional tax. On the other hand, there is some confusion in this tax policy of the current government. Two years ago, it inherited a fairly good base in this area, given that minimum rates of excise duty on oil derivatives were prescribed. The situation in the last 2 years in this area has enabled or allowed this government to provide additional resources for the state budget through smart and blue excise policies on the one hand, but of course it should be moderate in the regulation of excise rates, which the Pahor government has not been, and has increased too high. As a result, there were even fewer inflows to the budget at the expense of the increased rates than they could be recorded on the basis of the increase. In the context of excise policy, we can only pursue 1 objective, and this is a rapid filling of the budget hole, which in this case and in this way, as set out in this law, will not succeed. The counter-effect will be achieved, due to excessive burdens the state budget will be reduced and we will again witness innovative experiments in the autumn months when we have to patch up what the calculation is supposed to be, as now after the accounting-mathematic operation, will not be. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that a reasonable excise policy, as well as a policy of decommissioning the economy and the population, should be pursued, which could only allow for an increase in budgetary flows and, on the other hand, to rationalise public spending in an appropriate manner, which is too high. This has not been the case, the only way this government is using to fill the budget gap is to increase taxes, which is why we will oppose this intention in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? He doesn't want to, so I'm opening a statement to explain my voice on my behalf. Voice explanation, Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u118	Dear colleagues! Of course, I will not support the law in the belief that excise duties are nothing more than new taxes. Citizens and citizens just wanted to forget, but I am sure that this will not be possible, because this law will first burden the household, each individual for more than 100 euros a year. In addition to the fact that we already have over 100,000 unemployed people, this law can have effects that will affect exactly this and that many companies can, due to inadequacy, incompetent policies, lead the company into an extremely critical situation and also into failure and so on. I come from an environment where Paloma, where there was a lot, a lot of work done, so that we protected this company and somehow saved it from a critical situation. With such a decision as you are now making with these new excise duties on electricity, it may be that any such company, which is very strongly connected to electricity, will become unable to perform its basic functions and may happen that people will be in the Employment Institute. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I am convinced that, in addition to what we have done before, when we have given the Greeks almost EUR 400 million in unconvincingly credit, we are now adopting a law that places a burden on our own economy, our own households and our own citizens and citizens. I don't understand this unreasonable policy, I really don't understand it. How can we adopt legislation that merely imposes laws from day to day? It only imposes burdens on citizens and citizens all the time. This is also one of the key reasons why I will vote against the proposed law because it is certainly at the expense of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also oppose logic, so of course I cannot support this law. I oppose the logic that in times of financial crisis, when we have a fall in economic activity, this same economy is further burdened with taxes. This continues to stifle the economy and the impact will be worse for the country. But that is not the key reason why I object. The key reason is that the government, not the government, here I still somehow understand the finance minister to take care of certain inflows to the public treasury by increasing taxes. I am concerned about the attitude of Members to the extent that, to the extent possible, they have to the State budget and only secondly to the quality of life of people in general. This government promises new tax burdens on people from day to day. Today, we can read in the newspaper that a new property tax will soon come into force. At the same time, we read every day what the government will cut in people's incomes to freeze the coordination of pensions, social transfers and so on. We have scissors that close in the sense that they will eventually cut off the weakest citizen who is already on the move from month to month and who cannot afford additional tax burdens and additional restrictions on his income. This is, with respect, the wrong path and the wrong logic of saving some of the government's imported policies on the shoulders of the socially weak ones who will have to pay, regardless of social status, more expensive electricity, more expensive fuel and other things. This is unacceptable and certainly unworthy of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'll vote against it. It is true that such a law on new excise duties is in the style of the new paradigm of this government, it is said, instead of increasing taxes, increasing excise duties. What's the difference? For the average Slovenian and Slovenian, it is exactly the same – an attack on the pocket. The fact is, citizens' burdens don't go up over their right but over their left pocket, which is after all. That's the facts, that's probably just a little bit nicer if you think so. In addition, the stimulation of gas and electricity is simply incomprehensible. The fact is that both energy is pure energy, especially natural gas, because electricity can also be produced from so-called black energy, and then air pollution is slightly higher, but gas is pure energy. Slovenia has accelerated its gasification in recent years, saying that the pipeline network across Slovenia is already very widespread, especially in recent years. Now that we have this infrastructure and households that are connected to gas pipelines and even economic operators, we're going to hit that energy bill upside down. We're not going to say it's a new tax, but we're going to say it's a higher tax on gas. This is even at the same meeting to increase the excise duties and burdens of Slovenia and Slovenians, when you approved a 600 million gift a few minutes ago to Greece, so that some civil servants will still have a 16th salary. We could say that this government gives gifts to others and imposes new taxes on its citizens, which are not called taxes, but new excise duties, so I will vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Nicely hailed minister, colleagues and colleagues! I must oppose this law on behalf of citizens and citizens, as well as, above all, economic people. This law will hit economic operators the most, especially those strongly bound by excise legislation. Above all, there was not enough time for certain companies to restructure and actually make the system more ecological and more cost-effective. That's why this blow is too grave, if I may say so. I know you need to fill up the state cash register. I know there's no money in the state register, but fill it with smart moves, with excises on alcohol, cigarettes and stuff like that, not energy. In Slovenia we have the most expensive fuel. All the money that could come through excise duties in Slovenia goes elsewhere. Even Slovenian companies purchase fuel abroad, do not leave excise money at home in their cash register. Companies or transit carriers, after all, don't put any money in our cash register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u126	I will also vote against this excise law, the amendment of this law, and I firmly believe that the way to patch up the budget gap this year is when, on the one hand, we delete investments that are not really in progress and, on the other hand, we are burdening citizens and businesses with new excise duties, the wrong way. The way of excise duties has already been very good in the field of fuel fuels, where we have brought in this excise policy on excise duty increases and when it is estimated that more will be gathered into the state budget by increasing excise duties per unit in the end. But it turns out there's a border around here where these incomes are just starting to go down, even though they're raising excise duties per unit. In the case of propulsion fuels, this is clear because those who drive through the country decide to tank elsewhere, and here I think we are making a catastrophic mistake. However, I am afraid that in this work, mainly with electricity spending, when we burden the Slovenian economy and citizens, many Slovenian companies will also become uncompetitive. I come from an environment where Vipap is a company that consumes almost 2% of Slovenian energy. Vipap is a growing industry, energy-intensive and once this excise duty is fully established, we will burden every worker and worker in this company with 370 euros per month. How long will this company withstand such reckless pressure from the state, I do not understand that we still need to know that we have added an additional burden on renewable energy sources with these 130 million excise duties on electricity. The whole thing is going to be 200 million on an annual level, and I think we're making a big mistake, so we can't support this in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I can't support this kind of law in any way. Especially since we listen to the Prime Minister of the Government when he mentions several times at press conferences, which are more showcases than certain specific statements, that Slovenia will emerge from the crisis without increasing taxes or tax rates. What is the excise duty other than increasing taxes, especially in those areas that are most sensitive both to those that are economically weak in Slovenia and, above all, to our economy. Energy is one of the key components of the operation or operation of each company, especially small entrepreneurs, and thus is essentially impossible and additionally burdening the economy, which is the only, I repeat, only that will lead Slovenia out of this crisis, into which we pass at a higher rate from month to month. One of the very well-known economists has just commented today that it would be very useful if this government fell, because at least this would no longer be harmful to the economy. He is very right, because all the measures that this government is preparing are indeed a disaster for the economy. This extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where we have not an anti-crisis balance, but, as I have already mentioned, a crisis, means that this balance increases the economic crisis and will increase it further. We give money to those who actually do not need it as much as Slovenia itself and we burden the economy as the only plant that can take us, as I have already mentioned, from an economic situation that is worse from day to day. We should therefore not adopt such a law because it is harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. There was a lot of talk at the beginning of this mandate on system modernisation. All those who have been alerted to what will happen now receive only confirmation. Because this modernisation of systems actually means exclusively interference with social rights. By changing excise policy now, when excise duties have fallen by 8.10%, electricity has increased by 1900%, we will only achieve that we will put pensioners, farmers, disabled people and the unemployed into even greater difficulties and also strike after that part of the Slovenian economy that is warming up problems. I believe that it is necessary to be very judgmental in all these matters. It can also happen, or it has happened, that already in this mandate we have deteriorated the conditions of the student diet in order to improve conditions and raise the restrictions on scholarship policy in order to make a change in children's allowances and so on. There will be a whole series of modernisations that go exclusively towards the deterioration of social status, especially those that need the most assistance and which will only be further threatened. With these modernisation measures, completely destroy everything we have taken with a minimum wage. Many will now come to the employment office, will wait for work and most of it will then be drawn back to the state budget through additional taxes. Laws such as this cannot be supported at all because of all the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present and 47 votes against 32. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision — The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on excise duties. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 6. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled in the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. First of all, with regard to the 1st amendment tabled by the SDS Group under number 1, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in different sub-programmes within individual users and does not contain a proposal to increase funds in certain programmes. This amendment is therefore fully voted on within the first-mentioned user, the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to different users. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u132	Initially, I would like to apologize to the SD Members for confusing them with my first performance that they are obviously [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u133	It's somewhere else, not when you're explaining your voice, you'll be doing it some other time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u134	Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support an amendment that reduces public spending, the current consumption of the country, mainly for non-productive purposes, which, of course, places the most burden on the invisible financial situation of the state treasury. In Slovenia we really are experts, especially in times of crisis, when we do not know how to limit current consumption, when we know how to limit where they are most easily restricted. This is on those investments that you simply delete or postpone, which, of course, will not solve the problem. The investment must be made if not this year, while the Ministry of Finance and the Government do not pursue what they should do. This is the final pruning of those state-run expenditure that have accumulated such and different policies over the years. Of course, it is normal for the Government and Parliament to accept increasing some of the rights of citizens during times of economic growth and conjuction. At the same time, it is normal for the state to ensure the stability of public finances when the golden times and times of fat cows are not. This government has always known or governments led by the SD have always been able to provide for rights when the times were right, but now that the time of crisis, the government and the coalition have completely failed. This is an unpopular measure we're proposing. As a result, we will probably not receive any public servant on our side. However, from responsibility to the country and to public finances, we propose an approach to be taken by the Government in the future. The approach to a reasonable and substantive reduction of the State's fixed expenditure, taking into account the functions and tasks to be provided by the State Administration. This amendment proposes a reduction in current expenditure on material costs, including salaries and other public sector expenditure for a good EUR 700 million, and, of course, we expect you to take this view of the opposition or the SDS seriously and to also balance public finances for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. It was 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 1912Government of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, sub-programme Preparation of the system for protection and rescue of aid. We decide on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? Because the Government proposes to take the funds provided for in the budget of firefighters and rescue workers. From 2009 until now, funds have decreased from €631 million to €507 million in defence and protection. But the fact is, the goals remain the same, that's irresponsible. We would expect them to change their targets first, and then the fine budget. But he's preparing the opposite. First, the funds are being cut and the goals remain the same, and this is unacceptable. If we understand that the budget in the area of defence is tight, however, this year's first intervention in the area of the Republic of Slovenia's Directorate for Protection and Rescue is unacceptable. It takes 2.2 million euros. What does that mean? What I'm about to say is that it's demagogy. However, this was said by a member of your government on the Defence Committee, namely, these reductions in the planning of all state-level equipment programmes. This also means those directly linked to the support of firefighting units and other rescue workers in high weather. We will not buy aggregates, pneumatic tents and a set of one-way lift hydraulics and several other devices, we will not service geophones and electroaggregates. We've got the entire animal disease preparedness system at about 20 hotspots. There's about 4 to 5,000 firefighters behind it. This equipment's gone now because there's no money. That is why we will not buy overcrowds, we will not provide trailers with carriers across regions and cutting machines for building foil, not to mention overalls, protection, helmets and so on. This year we will not restore 2 regional centres and all that is involved. Which means that it is possible that we will still have events like those in Podravje when the regional centre in the middle of the storm collapsed due to overload and poor outdated techniques. This is linked to 112 and the entire information system supporting the operation of firefighters, rescue workers, emergency medical care and so on. We have come to the stage that if this trend continues for the second year, we will not be able to guarantee the priorities of the tasks. These are the tasks that we can co-finance 44 fire brigades — those that rescue road users in traffic accidents. If we suffer a reduction on this basis, the firefighters will no longer be able to do this work. We're gonna get into a situation where we can't even solve it, because that's why we won't have the money. Before you press the button against this amendment, imagine if this is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Voice explanation, Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam President. This amendment seems very meaningful to me because it is a vital area of protection and rescue. This area is a reliable area that should not feel any impact of the crisis. When it comes to protecting our lives, these resources must be made available for this purpose. Recently, the State Exercise Neuroje 2010 was held in Slovenj Gradc. This state exercise has shown a number of gaps in equipment and skills, so it seems to me that these resources need to be maintained so that the system can function as it needs to be. Individual voluntary firefighting companies are also fed through these funds. When it comes to operational programmes, training, equipment and situations that are slightly different than they were in the past, then I agree with this amendment and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u140	Your Honor! How much sacrifice and energy, as well as their health, in tragic cases even the firefighters invest their lives in the work with which they try to protect all of us and our property, can only be valued by someone who also has contact with them. It's firefighters, today and here. New and new tasks are being put before firefighters and firefighters as well. Time captures are becoming more common, partly man’s fault, and on the other hand, more and more assets. In a single fire, ladies and gentlemen, or in the event that poor technical support is in one case slower and weaker in the event of a capture, material damage may have occurred 10 times, even 100 times more than the savings you show on this item. It is in some way to ensure the development, life and property of people already achieved and to ensure security as a value. Therefore, it is unacceptable that the funds that have already been excessively rationally earmarked may be further diverted on behalf of the savings when the damage caused by such reckless savings may be significantly greater than that apparent savings [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Save it for what it wants! [[...]] This is something that should not have its place in the budget. That is why I will vote in favour of this amendment because it is a matter of firefighters, human security and value that, in my firm belief, do not have a price.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Of course I'll support this amendment. Why? We've been talking a lot about climate change lately, and we have a lot of mouth. We adopt various resolutions, declarations, and I don't know what. We are grateful there for the need to take care of a healthy environment so that we do not continue to produce climate change. However, when we reach a specific level, it is essentially different. Climate change monitors are natural disasters, captures, storms, torrents, floods, stomachs, sudden huge amounts of precipitation in a small area. What do we expect then? At that time we are expecting help and in our country we have a truly well-organised service of protection and rescue, but the backbone of this system is firefighting societies, mostly voluntary, which have never failed before. If they intervene, they are also expected to intervene, as they have an appropriate material basis, they are properly organised, which they do not even need to talk about. However, if they do not have the material resources and the appropriate equipment that follows the time, because the challenges are always different and more difficult, then we cannot expect their assistance and the desire to help as much as possible. Today we have an amendment of EUR 2 million, but we have just voted to help Greece for EUR 400 million, for someone else who in some cases acts very irrationally. Because this amendment is necessary, because we will always need help with natural captures, and more and more, I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice, Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we received the proposal for a rebalancing table and we saw that the government was reducing resources for protection and rescue by more than EUR 2 million, I first thought that the government had reached an agreement with the heavenly authorities that there would be no weather, floods, storms, in Slovenia this year, there would be no natural disasters or other accidents. I thought the government was relying on God's help to the fire department. It was already presented here today that this was not the case. At the meeting of the committee, we heard dramatic calls from representatives of the Government, and the Minister also spoke with extremely critical tone. We limit and stop the assistance of firefighters and others who are willing to rescue and selflessly help, and we are actually going back to such an important area where the issue of self-sufficient assistance to those who are in need of it. What do you say, ladies and gentlemen, to such an amendment? The fact that people will always be in an accident that always comes, the natural traps will always come, the rest of them alone, that you don't want to help them, that you can whistle at the misfortune of the common man and that this area will be neglected in this term and this year. I ask and appeal to you that you do not insist on such conduct, which is opposed by the Minister of Defence and everyone else, and that you support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Please do not appeal to how others will vote in explanation of vote, but only to explain your voice. Voice explanation, Janko Weber. He's quitting. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In order to take money to protect and rescue, there is something that no government and no coalition should allow itself in dreams, and I am pleased to support the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are trying to return the funds to at least the same level as was provided by the 2010 budget itself, although it would be very helpful and beneficial to have more of these funds. Protection and rescue are exemplary in Slovenia, so that many countries can take Slovenia as an example, but this is mainly at the expense of voluntary work, voluntary fire companies and self-sacrifice. Now that these people who actually put their lives at stake in order to save the lives of others, taking money, is unacceptable. On Saturday, I was at the opening of a firehouse, where four-fifths of this facility was built by voluntary work from voluntary contributions from the society itself, people and the countrymen. Here, however, the country takes money easily, for those who, as I said, save lives on the roads, in the mountains or when natural disasters occur in Slovenia. Even in the future, climate change will continue to be strongly present and there will be more of such disasters, so let us be responsible and give resources to those who also need them to save lives, not for themselves, but to save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 39 votes in favour, 39 against 39. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2011 Ministry of Economy, sub-programme Competitiveness Programmes. We vote on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Within the same user we are moving to a sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy. We vote on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u148	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and we will not join against the fire brigade or now against the trade coalition. What is the point of this particular amendment? The Ministry of Economy has proposed to the Government and to this Parliament that these transfers within the Ministry of the Economy reduce funds intended for direct, irreversible incentives to the small economy, subsidies to the small economy for the acquisition of technological equipment or other small economy development projects. Money is allocated in Balance B to strengthen some credit activity to a small economy. A small economy needs both. In some cases, development projects require subsidies for the acquisition of technological equipment and favourable loans or guarantees for favourable loans. Only the diversity of aid through the measures of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund can achieve the objectives and objectives of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund policy and, last but not least, the policy of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. At the beginning of the term of office, this government said that it would give up its non-refundable aid to the small economy and that it would compensate by increasing the volume of guarantees, guarantees and other debt relief to the small economy. We both need a small economy. When I recently spoke with the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, of course they oppose such an approach and such a government policy. He needs a small economy, as I emphasise, both. It needs specific programmes and projects, grants and a favourable loan or guarantee for this loan. In particular, grants and incentives are suitable for the start-up of small and medium-sized enterprises, for those who are still developing, which in fact do not have any credit potential, because they do not have the basic resources, in fact they have no ownership of anything and therefore have nothing to impose. With this amendment, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group wants to correct a policy designed to abolish subsidies for small businesses and to replace them only with guarantees. Therefore, I ask you to listen to the calls and suggestions of the Slovenian trade and to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2415 Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We decide on the 1st amendment to this subroutine. The proposal is the Transport Committee. The government doesn't support him. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 2nd amendment under this sub-programme, an amendment tabled by the proposaler Dr. László Göncz. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group or on its own behalf? In his own name, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'll support the amendment. The aid should be granted mainly for the reason that it is for the completion of the reconstruction of the Domanjševci-Kolije road, mainly because it is also linked to another investment, by the construction of a water network or system in the Domanjševci settlement. As I mentioned in the previous implementation, this is an extremely demographically endangered area and water supply is a very important step in ensuring normal living conditions. Since it also conditioned another investment and was also in the original programme that was concluded between the state and the congregation, of course I will support this amendment and I expect someone else to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment under number 3 in the same sub-programme is irrelevant because it relates to the increase in resources under the item under the Development Programmes Plan, as part 3 of the draft budget, to which amendments cannot be made. That is why we are moving on to the 4th Amendment under this sub-programme. The proposal is the Transport Committee. The government doesn't support him. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 5th Amendment in the same subroutine. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Skofljica’s bond or traffic jam on Skofljica is one of those 3 that we hear about daily reports or when it comes to all traffic congestion in the country. Here I have to warn you that this is a section that has a very high level of PLDP, which is said to be over 20,000, and this is the beginning of the G2 road. In May this year, a round table was also organised on this subject in Ribnica, attended by the President of the Committee on Transport in the National Assembly, Mr Weber, his fellow Member and Minister, Dr. Vlačič, and it was said that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u153	Comrade Tank, no reference to others. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u154	Of course, that's what I'm saying. It said that this spatial plan for this section would be discussed at the Government a week after this public presentation. I hope that the government has taken this procedure and that the matter is moving forward. Of course, this section, which is approximately 7 kilometers long, cannot be reached with 5,000,461 euros left on the budget line. If we want to do anything serious on this item, if we want to take this seriously, we need about 200 000 euros to run all these procedures, studies, studies, landings, and so on, in order to make the route into space and then at the next stage buy back the land. We have foreseen that this section would be taken from the protocol part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia suggests that the Government does not agree in any way to reduce the resources for protocol matters under the State budget, which is, in fact, very surprising in all the savings we are going through in this mandate. This would be a good step, an approach, a move and a gesture to support the investment. Colleagues, I propose that you support this amendment and that we finally take this commitment seriously in the Shkofljica. I myself will support this amendment also by our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment under order number 6 in the same sub-programme. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. At its 87th meeting, on 16 June 2010, the Government adopted a State spatial plan for the Ribnica bond. This means that it is one of the bonds of national interest. It is extremely important for the entire area between the Ljubljana Bar and the border crossing of Petrina, especially for all those who use this road and there are more every year, because the economic situation in this part is extremely poor, at least in a certain part. However, the implementation of this spatial plan cannot be pursued if there is not even 1 euro in the national budget in the balance sheet of the budget for this undertaking. Not even the euro is foreseen for the implementation of this spatial plan. We believe that 100 000 Euros should be allocated to this area, which will be approximately 7 kilometres long, in order to start procedures, prepare studies, produce laboratories, surveys and similar matters. What we're proposing is a minimum. If we want to be in areas where there are mentioned factors where there are problems with coherent regional development, where there are problems with accessibility, traffic flow, then it is most normal for Members of the National Assembly to allow such an amendment to be supported and accepted. Certainly from the state resources we are earmarking for the Škofljica bypass, for the Ribnica bypass and similar less resources than for the co-financing of that Rock Otočac that happens every year and this is some sort of one-off event. I propose that in the National Assembly Members also learn about the priorities and needs of the environment and that we not only finance something that is intended for some entertainment and leisure activities, but especially those serious projects that are important for the development of the environment, which are important for the development of economic activities and which are an integral part of the development axis. Rock Otočec is not an integral part of the development axis, while the Oblast on Škofljica and Ribnica are also an integral part of the development axis and contribute significantly to the development of the environment. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same programme, we decide on an amendment under order number 7 of the applicant of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. You may have heard of 3a of the House of State in this reference. Development axis The Velika Lašče bypass is also an integral part of 3a. Development axes. At its 87th meeting, on 18 June this year, the government also adopted a State Spatial Plan for the construction of the Velika Lašče oblasta. It is said that it has recognized that in the area of G2 road between the Ljubljana Bar and the border crossing of Petrinja, some measures are needed to improve transport regulation and transport links both with Croatia and especially with Ljubljana. Arrangement 3a. The development axis is important, especially because it is the shortest link to the Kvarner Bay and I think there should be no problem, even now, because you have agreed to this arbitration agreement. The implementation of this project cannot be started with a thousand 392 euros – as much as you predicted for this railway. Of course, it is also significantly more important than any sidewalks covered in the state budget in some cases, but also much more important than certain cycling links or co-financing of certain social homes and so on. If we want to do anything in this coherent regional development, help with the development of the environment, the Ribnik-Kočevsko field is already one that needs additional incentives not only in transport, but also in some other areas. Then at least what we can do as Members on this occasion when we have a concrete amendment on the table must be opened. I expect you to be happy to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Around the same sub-programme, we are deciding on an amendment under order number 8 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleagues! Restoring these few 100 meters or some of the last 100 meters of state road through Ribnica should be completed this year. It is a section that is approximately 400 meters long and the state has divided the reconstruction of this section into 3 years. 818 000 euros, as far as was in this year's budget to complete this last section of the state road through Ribnica, is divided into 3 following years. If this is a rational and sensible approach, then it is no wonder that we have such problems in the economics and rational use of the state budget, as well as such frequent irrational decisions in the National Assembly. More or less, with the preparatory closures, the cost, such as the value of the entire section, to remove the prisoners, will be set up by traffic lights and so on. I suggest that this missing branch be made in step 1 to end this year and that we then deal with the state road through Ribnica in a way that is most rational and meaningful. Any other decision related to the non-support to this amendment means that we strongly support the irrational spending of the state budget. In particular, the Government's inciting response is, as in this case too, those matters relating to protocol matters are of greater importance than some investments in the environment that would value and rationalise other matters. The government has much more to do with protocol services than with serious investment facilities in individual municipalities. In particular in this case in the municipality of Ribnica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the same user under order number 9 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. It's just a final arrangement of the road past Old Log. It is a railway station in the Municipality of Kočevje on a road connecting Novo mesto to Kočev. On this road there is a great deal of traffic, especially motor, including freight, because it is the shortest link to Ribnica and Cerknica. There is a lot of transit freight and I think it would make sense for this only missing part to be placed in the state budget. To begin with, it takes 50,000 euros, and I believe that this will not be too much of a problem for the coalition to support this issue and remove the dangerous section on this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are deciding on an amendment under order number 10 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment under order 11 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u164	Your Honor! It's the Hotemaze-Britoff Road, which we've talked about many times. For that sad section, which is the most lethal section for children a kilometer across Slovenian territory, where the road ends in a pile of land on two sides and then passes through villages. If the security priorities, which, in my firm belief, cannot be priced, do not give the importance it has, I remind you that this is also a section connecting all municipalities in this part of Gorenjska and with Austrian territory, because it is a road across Jezerska to the border with Austria. After all, it is even of national importance, since the section connects through the Austrian work and the Korean territory also further towards Slovenia Gradc and shifts the daily link for a variety of migrants on this part of the road. This is a section that can release a large development potential if it is upgraded. There lie Lake and Predvor, two tourist pearls that cannot exploit their potential because they do not have the proper road links. This is the oldest section of the unbuilt road link provided for in the acts of Slovenia, since this part, which extends from two sides to the capitals of the country, has existed since the 1980s. It's a relatively small asset, a section where there's no overpass and no tunnel, nothing. Only a little goodwill is needed, and this is also recognised by the Government, as it makes it very clear that the amendment proposal is technically feasible. Therefore, it depends only on your votes and only on your votes. I'll vote for human security and development myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 12 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u166	Your Honor! It's a circle on the road between Brnik and the highway. The district in Shenchure has been in construction for a long time. This is the section that you know very well, where a bunch of plastic is in the middle of the road as an obstacle, but in fact it represents a connection to an important regional road for the entire enterprise zone, where more than a thousand people are already employed and this number will double in a short time. On the one hand, it is security, and on the other hand, it is a very important development issue. If there's nothing else I can think of to this coalition, let me draw your attention to one aspect. Construction of the Hotemaže-Britoff road or, in this case, the Shenchure Circle will return quickly, because by triggering the new development potential it brings, more funds are raised in the budget, entrepreneurs are easier to operate, tax revenues are increasing, and this ultimately means more quality for everyone. But it obviously doesn't move anything, and I'm afraid that there will be the same experience here as that unfortunate amendment with regard to firefighters when there was a vote in line with the old birthing principle of fighting butlers and minds and beating butlers and not intelligence. But I'll vote in my own head and in my own favor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2423 Directorate for Investment Management of JJI and to the sub-programme Investment activities on railway infrastructure. The amendment under order number 1 is irrelevant as it is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. If they hold data from Wikipedia, then the railway line between Grosuplje and Kočev was built between May 22 and July 24th, 1893. The track was built in 1 year. In the previous term, we adopted a law providing for the renewal of the section between Grosuplje and Ortnek in 3 years. The reconstruction should be completed in 2009. Unfortunately, with the performance of Borut Pahor's government, the reconstruction of this route only extends to Ortnek for the next 3 years. However, this railway line is one of the sections or components of 3a. Development axes. Now I am asking how the Government's approach to modernising transport and rail sections is, if all these sections, which have been placed and covered by the guarantee law, are delayed, extended and extended over the next period, is to say in time after the current government's mandate. I do not think that this approach is serious, that it is not possible to go this way in any way of any development, but even the least coherent regional development. I wonder how it is possible to introduce rail transport to Kočev and in any way to enable rail passenger transport to take place along this route. In Ortnek there is a warehouse of oil derivatives of the supply reserves of the Republic of Slovenia and it is annually along this road of traffic, for which you have not previously voted for either the bonds or anything else, about 40,000 tonnes, because these stocks need to be renewed annually. Now figure out how many thousands of tanks this is on the road. By restoring this route, which is also intended to fill the Ortnek store of stores, we certainly do not promote or improve traffic safety on the Ljubljana-Kočev network. Certainly not and certainly not between Cerknica and the New City. Failure to support such amendments to them means that you will make a substantial contribution to additional problems in terms of transport safety, traffic flow, travel times and so on. This means direct inhibition of development in all directions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2511 Ministry of Environment and Space and Sub-programme Environmental Improvement. We decide on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2711 Ministry of Health and Sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals. We decide on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. We have already witnessed today that this government and this coalition are directed against firefighters, protection, rescue and now we see that it is also against providing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u171	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u172	Health. [[...]] With this rebalancing, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reduces as much as €43 million or even more for investment investments in hospitals. Otherwise, in her explanation, she argued that these funds were being redistributed into the following year, which of course she did not. The following year the funds will be even less, and this year they are taking money to build those very important hospital infrastructures that provide real security and also save lives. Here very much resources are being cut to build an emergency centre in Ljubljana, New Town and across Slovenia. Equally, funds for hospitals and other infrastructure are being reduced. This is, of course, unacceptable, and if we support such an amendment that we have tabled, at least partially we will try to recover funds there so that we can start building hospital infrastructure more intensively this year. It is unacceptable that funds are taken there, because health is an invaluable value and without adequate infrastructure this cannot be guaranteed. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support this amendment, and I hope that it will also be supported by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the Sub-programme Gathering of Blood and Transplant Authorities and deciding on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u174	This is the next absurdity of this government, and probably also of these coalitions, to take the funds that are in minimum amounts throughout the budget. This is a few thousand euros, the area of blood supply. The government, although probably not aware of this, wrote in its explanation that the funds on this programme are falling and that there is a high likelihood that in 2010 we will not be able to provide the expected and urgently needed supply of blood. We know that in Slovenia bloodguilt is one of the values of those who are willing to give blood, because blood saves life, and coalition and government behave irresponsiblely because they take those minimum funds for this area too. In this way, a lot of lives can be threatened and, instead of increasing these funds, we are trying to bring them back to the same level with our amendment as was already foreseen with the 2010 budget itself. I hope that there will be so much responsibility here that this amendment will, of course, also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of measures to improve treatment – biological medicines. We decide on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much. It is also one of the following absurdities of this government and coalition to take funds for those who are truly most ill, this is to provide funds for the purchase of biological medicines. Biological medicines are known to be the most effective and successful in the treatment of cancer patients. Instead of re-increasing resources to enable people to receive better treatment, the amount of EUR 230 000 is also being taken here. In its explanation, the Government has again irresponsibly stated that the frequency of supply of medicinal products will not be reduced by predicting in the same breath that this reduction will not be able to start treatment procedures for new patients. This means that those who develop new diseases will not receive treatment, as I said, with the most effective biological medicines. Let us therefore hope that there is so much compassion and responsibility to return the funds to that level so that we can give people the best treatment we currently have in this area. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. (For the vote was 31.)(against 42.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 3311 Ministry of Education and Sport and sub-programme Sports programmes and we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Sports halls, especially the sports hall of Stožice, is this season’s hit. This hall is the work of the entire government. For this purpose, we understand that a special invitation to tender has also been made to which only this project can be applied, this inherited investment in Ljubljana – inherited by the investment of the mayor, Mr Jankovic. I suggest that we move more rationally, more on the right path, to place ourselves in the balance of the state budget and also the sports hall in Sodražica. It is one of the municipalities and one of the schools where there are no conditions for sports education, not for children, not for kindergarten. I think these projects are built in peripheral environments that are a little bit distant from the eyes and hearts to support. In any event, this project deserves more support from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia than any investment that has taken place because the financial rules of the approach to project construction were not respected. I am counting on the coalition to give a few votes to place this necessary project in Sodražica in the state budget and that the Government or the Republic of Slovenia assumes part of its co-financing obligations, the remaining part in accordance with the scheme envisaged for co-financing will be taken over by the home congregation in any way. I believe that for such a large budget, which has so many items, protocol costs and other unnecessary costs, there should be no difficulty in providing €1 million from this item, supporting the project and putting it into the budget. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the Vrtci subroutine. We decide on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. This is an investment in Ribnica, the construction of a new kindergarten where the procedures are completed, and a building permit is also issued. In this national assembly and even in this government, there is a very large dissatisfaction to cover various missed investments. They are also favored by the Ministry of Education and Sport, which can find additional resources and sell some millions of euros for some other matters. We have also heard about the intentions and proposals to cover certain investments in the budget reserve for those who are subject to elementary disasters and are likely to be a major accident because it was an uncovered investment. I propose that we move more along the normal path, by voting in favour of this amendment, to support this necessary investment in the Ribnica, to place it in the state budget and start the implementation process. Surely it is not an investment that has any problems or limitations. It is a matter of replacing an object that has practically failed completely because it no longer meets technical or other conditions and also prevents the normal development of preschool education in Ribnica. I expect that, given that you have a very benevolent, good and positive attitude towards children, to pre-school and school children, students, students, this amendment, and that we will also take an important development step forward in this area. Our Group of Members will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation of the voice in his own name, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'm afraid it's not such a good attitude towards children and the future that's expressed through a relationship with children. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u183	Don't argue with your fellow Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u184	It was clear in today's debate and vote that the government and coalition boats were sinking. These signs are great – the attitude towards firefighters, the opposition to their activities, the support of the small economy programme, are neglected to invest in small economy programmes, i.e. in Slovenia's development and the symbolic amendment, which shows the relationship of this coalition to children in the future. If you are against the amendment, which symbolically states that children are still valuable to parents in Slovenia, then it is clear that this government and coalition have given up investment and confidence in the Slovenian future. Once again, it confirms that ships — government and coalition — have lost their compass and are sinking. The proof of this is also Minister Lahovnik, who has an instinct for when to jump out of a sinking ship. Now he's out of Zares. He'll be out of the government ship tomorrow. A reasonable man has no choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u185	Mr Jerovšek, can you explain what this has to do with the explanation of the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u186	But you just take Slovenia into the abyss and vote against it, even with the symbolic investment programme in the future, it is in the upbringing of children and the equal opportunities of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u187	And how will you vote? Against or against?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u188	For it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the primary school subroutine. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 tabled by Dr. László Göncz. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much. This is the most important project of its kind at this time in the national mixed area, not only of the national community, but at least of the majority people or of the wider area, because it is the largest primary school in the wider geographical area. By reducing the amount proposed under the amendment as an option to implement the programme, this year's programme of project implementation is effectively impossible and thus further activities for the following year become questionable. However, since this is proportionate to not such a large amount, I believe that this investment or this amendment may be supported. I will personally support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are deciding on an amendment under order number 2 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. It is a project of primary school, kindergarten and gym Mirna Pec. The project is based on the 1999 invitation to tender. When an ideal design and a valuable project was chosen, the Ministry of Education provided its share of the funds for construction under the Community Financing Act, which is a good half of the total investment. It was only then that the municipality went into the construction of the project and the purchase of the necessary land. Now, despite maximum debt, it cannot close the financial structure because the Ministry does not guarantee its share. It is a primary school that has not had a valid permit for more than 40 years and cannot obtain it because there has always been something built up for the spatial needs of the school. Now the municipality cannot close the financial structure when the project is ready and start construction. Last year, the Ministry of Education and Sport did not carry out an invitation to build such buildings, nor this year. The amendment proposes the redeployment of funds from unallocated resources to this item in order to enable the construction of this facility to begin. I think that the Government could take advantage of the favourable price situation in construction because the construction industry is unemployed, the Minister himself notes, and provides at least minimum resources, since there has been no such thing in the last two years. This would allow those projects, which have been going on for decades, to start building and provide a favourable solution to spatial pressures in primary schools and kindergartens, as the situation is very difficult. I don't know what's gonna happen if the school's inspection closes because all public facilities should have a usable permit. Who will then be responsible, since the congregation has done its utmost to provide a maximum amount of resources, which it can provide according to its budget. I think it is the responsibility of the Ministry and the Government here to allow such facilities to begin to be built. This amendment will, of course, be supported by the SDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the representatives of the Government or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy whether the State Budget Balance on Income and Expenditure is coordinated? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u194	Your Honor! The budget balance is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-06-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Since the budget balance is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the 2010 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia in full. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the 2010 Rebalance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 28. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and very much. The meeting was closed on 6 July 2010 at 2.52 p.m.
