ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member cannot attend today's meeting: Roberto Battelli until 2 p.m. and Marijan Pojbič after 3 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We move on to 20.A and 20.B. DOCTURE OF THE DAY LINE. In accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out a joint introductory presentation, within the framework of the 20th and 20th agenda of the Council, on the Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DECISION ON THE ANNUAL PLAN OF THE GOVERNMENT AND FOR THE LEGAL ORGANISATION FOR 2011 AND ON THE DRAFT DECISION ON THE ANNUAL PLAN OF THE ANNUAL SCHEDULE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE INSTRUMENTS IN PERSONAL VALUES OF OVER 300 EUROS FOR ORGANISES AND THE LEGAL ORGANISATION FOR THE YEAR 2012. The draft decrees were tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motions of the decrees. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, good morning to you! Decisions are always prepared when budgets are drawn up for the current years. Under the legislation, which has been amended and will be dealt with differently in 2011, the ministries, which need no longer the individual real estates of which they are managers and have been placed on the internal market, where it has been found that other ministries or state administrations, the judicial authorities of these properties do not need them, have placed them in the disposal plan and the decree is before you today. The 2011 decree contains in addition to the 28 real estates that the operators have classified in the decree and which you confirmed when the 2011 budget approval decree was confirmed, 28 real estates with a total indicative value of more than 15 million. In addition, the operators added 28 properties to the amended decree to a total indicative value of 26 million, of which 14 were in the management of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Culture at a total indicative value of more than EUR 12 million, then 7 business premises in the management of the Institute of National Affairs, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice at a common indicative value of more than EUR 4 million, 5 apartments and 2 other facilities. As a result of these additionally classified properties, the decree changed when the 2011 budget was amended and, as a new one, it contains 56 properties worth more than €41 million in total. The 2012 decree contains 7 buildings and plots with a total indicative value of more than EUR 10 million, one building with a land in the administration of the Ministry of Justice with a total indicative value of EUR 430 000 and 6 buildings with land in the administration of the Ministry of Culture with a total indicative value of EUR 9 million 600 000. I would like to point out to the honourable Members and Members in the context of the time that I still have, that the fact that individual operators place real estate, commercial buildings, unnecessary, therefore immovable property, in the decrees does not mean that they will change, sell or dispose of them free of charge. In 2010, we will consider a report on the realisation of these facilities in the light of the decisions adopted between 2008 and 2010. The Ministry of Public Administration has collected data from departmental ministries that are managers and data are extremely interesting. Of the 66 properties classified in the decrees in 2008, operators had only 18 properties. Therefore, the realisation of these in the plans of the listed properties was slightly more than 20%. In 2009, the decrees contained the projected availability of 82 properties at a total value of more than €79 million, of which only 6 assets were made available with this immovable property. Both the laws you have confirmed, namely the Law on Real Property of the Republic of Slovenia and Local Communities and the Law on the Public Real Estate Fund, show that it was more than reasonable to act, that is, to provide business premises for the work of the state administration, the judiciary and other state authorities centralizes in a person who will be primarily responsible for the management of unnecessary assets, which today managers no longer need for their work. This report has shown that poor management of immovable property is due to the fact that until now, until the amendment of these two laws, we have entrusted the Ministry and the management of immovable property not their primary task. Even what they do not need for their work and is before you today in the decrees, with somehow committed themselves to alienating them, replacing them or something else, obviously in practice then does not become a fact, which, of course, we are all interested in, is empty spaces, spaces that are not necessarily necessary for the work of the state administration, being used rationally in the way that they are estranged or used to meet the spatial needs of other state authorities. These two decrees will be implemented in 2011 when the public real estate fund is established and will start work already in the implementation of this fund, and the income will then be transferred to a fund that will be funded by a work programme approved by the Government and, as a result, by the National Assembly, a business plan for each current year, and hopefully will be significantly more realized than we know today, and we are doing so by the ministries. Both decisions are a consequence of the requirements for each budget to place the reserve ministries as real estate managers of unnecessary assets in this decree and to order them to manage it. As has already been said, the report shows that the realisation of what is now in the decree has not been good so far, and with the new system regime we can all hope that the treatment of immovable property owned by the Republic of Slovenia will be more cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, it is my job to present both decrees. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed first in its decree on the annual plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per year for 2011. This happened at the 40th emergency session of the 12th. 11. 2010 The proposer, of course, is the Government. We have invited the Ministry of Public Administration, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State. The members and members of the Committee have received the relevant documents, i.e. the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposal for a decree and the opinion of the competent Commission of the State Council. If I cut the deal. We adopted the amendment tabled by the Legal and Legislative Service, in the preamble to the text "Official Gazette", we added the text "in relation to the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Authorities of the Community". The members and members of the committee did not discuss the decision itself. In its final vote, the Committee adopted a decree in its entirety, together with an amendment drawn up by the Legislative and Legal Service. Immediately after that, at the same meeting on the same day, we also discussed the same decree, which is a decree for the sale of assets for 2012. The meeting was also held exactly the same in this context, and we had the same documents for 2012. With us were the same representatives of the proposer, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State. Here, too, we have adopted the amendment of the Committee and, without discussion, voted on the whole decision and also adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u6	Mr President, the President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the 2011 Regulation on the annual real estate management plan for a country of more than EUR 300,000 per annum for public administrations and judicial authorities adds additional properties to the 2011 annual deployment plan by operators. The decree contains 28 properties whose total estimated indicative value exceeds just over EUR 26 million. There are 14 plots, 7 business premises, 5 apartments and 2 other facilities. These amendments increase the overall indicative value foreseen for the 2011 annual plan to 41 million and include 56 properties. Here we ask the Social Democrats whether it is really necessary to sell cultural objects owned by the State or by what argument the Ministry of Culture put them into the 2011 decree. We know that many times the implementation of the programme is not 100%, and therefore we also propose that, before each sale, the purpose of such sales be re-examined, especially the castles owned by the state. However, a decree on the annual real estate management plan for 2012 provides 7 buildings with land totalling EUR 10 million. The representative of the Government pointed out the time-range of the 2012 annual plan, which means that it is also less extensive, both by the number of properties and by the estimated value of these. In view of the fact that we have passed a law establishing the public property fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in the Group of Social Democrats we expect the state of the property review to improve. The two proposed resolutions, which form an integral part of the 2011 and 2012 budget, will be supported with the hope that our comments will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much. It's kind of interesting that I actually have a similar attitude to that of my forerunner. We're only really different in one thing. My forerunner has the hope that it will go as he said, especially with regard to castles. But since we ourselves do not have this hope of doing so, we will vote in a different way than my forerunner has predicted. See, since the Minister, without any specific reservations to these two decrees, herself has said that things are actually going quite differently than any government or government will record in its annual asset sales programme. Things are going very differently in real life. These two decrees also provide for the sale of six castles for EUR 9.6 million. It's kind of funny for journalists, although it's not said that it would be in the real situation. Look, we're selling the town of Turnišče near Ptuj, the price is a million 200 000 euros, and if you share this price by 25 hectares or by an appropriate number of square meters, you can come to the conclusion that we are selling 25 hectares of land at this facility for 4.7 euros and the castle is donated. That's how it works. And it's 9,000 square feet of this place in the castle. Of course, I do not say that the country will sell this facility so carelessly, but the documentation does. And someone who would want to either maliciously or in any way interpret it would say that the state is joking. God does not allow this to happen in reality. But it is also true that it seems to us that now to sell in these recession times this property, we somehow bring it to people who have a lot of money, simply buy it, I will not say for such a price, let's hope, for a higher price, and then nothing happens for years and years.I live in an environment where two such castles, two such buildings, are sold 20 years ago, one in Šmarj near Jelšah, one in the vicinity of Podčetka, probably many people know these two objects. They were purchased by foreigners, both municipalities have some small owners, and now these two municipalities have been investing in the roof for years and years just to prevent the building from being destroyed by the effects of the weather. And for years and years, they have also owned from somewhere in Serbia, which virtually no one knows or is difficult to obtain. They are the owners, the municipalities are unable to handle it, the problems arise, and today both congregations are working hard to get these facilities back. This is how our Group's thinking is identical or similar to the SD, but the vote will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u10	Good afternoon, Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable President of the Government, Madam Minister, other co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the Real Property Act of the State, the Provinces and the Communities and the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, we have before us amendments and additions to the Annual Property Management Plan of 2011 and the Basic Decree of 2012. The first amendment in Article 1 is very interesting and indicative. The indicative value of availability in 2011 changes from a good EUR 15 million to a good EUR 41 million; therefore, it is almost a threefold increase in the disposal of state real estate. In 2012, however, we will sell or try to sell EUR 10 million of the country's real estate. It is true that we have a large budget deficit and we need financial resources, but at the same time we are also asking ourselves about the purpose of this kind of work at a given time. If we turn back time for just a few hours, we can remember the gruesome debates about reselling, even the sale of state property, state silver and the like. At least two things stand to reason: more inappropriate situations than the current situation, we cannot imagine for the sale of real estate, but we are surprised to see some of the envisaged sales of property in the centre of Ljubljana, in the fact that on the other hand, a number of money is spent on renting. Hasn't the Government, in its 30s, already forgotten, ordered the Ministry of Public Administration to examine the policy of renting premises for the needs of state authorities and propose measures to reduce rent costs? There's something we don't understand in the Slovenian People's Party. Another example already mentioned by colleagues from two parliamentary groups who presented their views. It's about reselling castles, it's about a program where we think we need to think hard about whether it really makes sense to sell it in these days. I am also familiar with an example of the castle, namely the Šrajberski turn in Leskovec, in the municipality of Krško, where I come from, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on 21.12.2007, which took note of the content of the protocols agreed with the local community, on the procedure for adopting a State spatial plan for the disposal of low and medium-level radioactive waste at the site of Vrbina in the Municipality of Krško and between the six protocols was also a protocol for the financing of the renovation of the Šrajbarski turn, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertook to renew the castle by means of the European Union and the Ministry of Culture. Following the decision, it entrusted the competent ministries and the Agency for Radioactive Waste with the aim of ensuring that the Protocol is implemented with an appropriate proportion of the appropriations from budgetary resources, as derived from the content of the individual protocols. In 2008 and 2009, the local community, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, has already carried out certain activities, evictions of residents, cleaning of the castle, implementation of conservation plans resulting from that Protocol. It is therefore unacceptable that the 2012 State Property Sales Programme provides for the sale of this castle, for which different obligations have been assumed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I think that the restoration of castles is the wrong approach of the Government, when the change in the European drawdown programme reduces the funds for the renovation of castles. This is a typical example of a state castle, which is a state monument, where the state could also take a decision to restore this castle. On the other hand, cooperation with the local community, with the Agency for Radioactive Waste, and a programme for this castle has already been known. Fortunately, sales are foreseen in 2012 and we will certainly also try to stop or make such sales as agreed in the protocols adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Because of these facts relating to castles, where we believe that another castle should be considered, it can be restored by European means, if possible, and also because of the other views I have previously expressed, in the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that such a decision is not appropriate for adoption, so we will not vote to confirm these two decisions on the sale of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government, Your Honor Minister! The decree on the country's fixed assets annual management plan for 2011 was adopted already in 2009. The proposed decree contains an additional 28 properties, the indicative value of which is 26 million 152 thousand 131, so that the number will increase to a total of 56 real estates of total value of 41 million 632. Since the operator has found that it is no longer necessary to carry out its tasks and they wish to have them, a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the annual real estate plan is proposed and for 2011 the number of 28 properties is increased by an additional 28, totalling 56 properties of a total value of EUR 41 million 632 000. The proposal for a decree includes the real estate that internal market participants place on the market because they no longer need them permanently. It is clear that these real estate operators do not need to do so for their own activities, so they may be sold, included in or granted free of charge in the exchange process, at their own discretion. Otherwise, property on the internal market from the moment the operator places it on it, until the approval of the annual plan has been made available with immovable property but for at least 30 days. In the 2012 proposal, the story is essentially the same, but only changes in the number of properties to the total value. It is 7 buildings with land totalling 10 million, of which 1 is in the administration of the Ministry of Justice and 6 is in the administration of the Ministry of Culture. In these six properties managed by the Ministry of Culture, there are six castles, with all the plots and facilities. According to our records, the orientation value seems to be low. At the same time, I want to know what the Ministry intends to do with all this property. So far, it has proved that the Ministry is not a very good host and does not follow the criteria for assessing cultural heritage, which is an irreplaceable value. Unfortunately, each unit of heritage that is damaged or destroyed is lost and cultural heritage must be included in an active daily life. In the Slovenian National Party, we are counting on the country to act prudently, so we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good morning, everyone! I will try to present myself in a brief manner the position of the group of unrelated Members regarding both decisions, by first mentioning the 2012 decree, which appears to be mainly part of the opinions and concerns, although it is not a very important sum for our budget, but it does raise this sum of questions about its substance. This is a number of cultural monuments, these are castles that we try to disinvest at various ends of Slovenia and show that we are also more emotional than rational and economically attached to some. Otherwise, it is a decision referring to amendments and additions to the 2011 decree on a much larger amount and perhaps it is important to ask some questions as to the indicative values and the figures recorded in this regard. The decision on how we will act in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Solidarity Group also depends on what we will be thinking about some of our issues. True, for these few cultural monuments, it is mainly castles, the indicative price is relatively low. Those of us who have ever had the opportunity to deal with such problems to disinvest cultural monuments, which are mainly in decline, which the main owners are having a hard time sustaining, have come across almost uniform practice that when this was offered in disinvestment, there were no those who would be willing to take all the costs necessary to do so, and to a large extent it was also significant that there was no idea for these facilities that there were no programmes, that there were no visions, for this reason also comes to disinvestment in major problems. The dwellings available under the first decree have extremely high orientation values. This is probably related to a pension which concerns the specific position of these properties, as well as the size and standard of real estate. We know some are abroad. The question is whether it is necessary to decontaminate or is it possible to use these housing facilities in a different way. It is possible that those in the Republic of Slovenia will be entitled to rent as real estate for a non-profit lease. We do not know whether that is the case, but such a question can rightly be asked. A slightly lower indicative value is represented by business premises. It appears, at least at the values, that these are not properly located, that they are not appropriate standard maintenance, otherwise they would probably be higher indicative values. But what has already been mentioned today, and what also motivates us to think that perhaps it is not the best estimate — not if it has been evaluated with valuations, and not if it has been assessed by an artificial method — are land. This is a relatively modest amount for large squares of land, and it is not necessarily a determinant of the price of current land use, but a reflection on what will happen to these land in a year, two, five or perhaps even more, when the destination may change, when the use may change and in this respect multiply the starting price that we are facing now. Nevertheless, we are trying to understand why the Government has offered these properties for disinvestment and we will be inclined to vote in favour if we are finally convinced that this is a truly irrefutable fact which the Minister originally announced that our internal market does not actually need these properties – either because they are not adequate real estates over or because they are not functional or for any other reason we do not devote the activities of the authorities of state institutions. The second question is whether it is possible, in particular, to provide revenue sources in the face of deficit and debt budgets, but given the number of the indicative value, we will have very difficult to make a significant change in our budgets and deficits, unless the market price changes significantly with regard to orientation. The next question is whether there may be a need and the need for us to relieve these properties because they cause too much costs as unnecessary business assets, so as not to fail, to stop the collapse of these facilities and to keep them on some level, so that there may be a demand on the market later. Another question is whether we may not offer them because we will thus save some of the costs of special law in order to preserve such facilities. I know, for example, the castle of Viltus near Maribor, for which we have adopted certain means of purpose in the law in order to preserve the object, to maintain it properly and to devote itself also to certain other activities and not merely to decay. These are the questions that are being asked and thought about these issues are the ones that will decide how we will vote. Otherwise, if there is no real need on the internal market, and if there is a buyer on the market for an appropriate price, not just for an indicative value, then it is reasonable to sell these properties, or else they will not be sold, as the type of real estate has not been sold so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introductory presentation to the two proposals for resolutions. We are moving on to a debate on each decision individually. We continue with the 20th point, i.e. the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Regulation on an annual plan for the management of the country's immovable property at a individual value of more than EUR 300,000 for the administration of the State and for the judicial authorities for 2011. I note that the amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, and we will therefore vote on the amended motion for a decree today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 20.b item on the agenda – the proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for government authorities and judicial authorities for 2012. I note that the amendments to the proposed decision have not been tabled. The vote on the amended motion for a decree will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2011 and 2012 under the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Vrančar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u16	The President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 represents a closed unit with other budgetary documents. Given the legal nature of the state budget, it is necessary to adopt solutions that allow for the current and smooth implementation of the budget, and these solutions include the proposed bill. This is an annual law and therefore the content changes compared to the current law on budget implementation only as much as is necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget over the next two years. The essential amendments contained in the proposal for that Act are mainly in the context of a slightly modified budget preparation, and for this reason certain new concepts are set out in the content of the law, a slightly modified presentation of the planned expenditure in the Development Programme Plan, and direct users are allowed to redistribute their spending rights under the same sub-programme independently and without restriction in their financial plan, except in the case of Slovenian participation items and EU dedicated funds items. The Ministry of Finance shall further grant the power to decide that, on a proposal from the proposer, the financial plan within the same sub-programme may be granted the rights of use to the other proposer of the financial plan and that the Government shall be given the power to decide on the reallocation between the different sub-programmes of the individual or different proposers of the financial plans up to 10% of the sub-programme in the adopted budget. As it is said, the proposed law represents a closed unit with other documents that we have dealt with in relation to the 2011 and 2012 budget in the past day and today, and we propose to the National Assembly to confirm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u18	Your Honor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! It is not customary for the President of the Government to address this high house at this point of the agenda, but it is also not the usual situation in which you decide the most important issues for the fate of our people and the country. First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank you for yesterday's and last night's decisions, especially for the intervention law, as well as for others who are trying to regulate the situation which are important for two important objectives: one is competitiveness and the other is social cohesion. Today you will decide on the budgets and other laws that belong to it. Please accept the balance. This will pursue a very important short- and medium-term objective, namely fiscal consolidation or deficit reduction. I also ask you to look with favor at the pension reform and now I would like to say why. Why are things not normal at home, and why are they not because we are part of a developed and modern world, usually outside? Today, I have already instructed my colleagues to come to the close of the Constitutional Commission and the Committee of the National Assembly for European Affairs, that all matters relating to possible decisions on the implementation of the automatic mechanism to help countries in the financial crisis will come directly from Ireland and Portugal, as soon as we have the information at our disposal, to the Committee of Finance and to another committee, if we have to think together about the important things that are crucial to our destiny. Once again, I would like to thank you for the decisions you have taken at this meeting of the National Assembly, which are going in the right direction. Slovenia today, especially if a rebalance and related laws are adopted, remains within that group of countries that can courageously look to the future despite the enormous problems ahead of the European Union, you heard Van Rompuy's statements yesterday, and you heard Commissioner Rehn's statements yesterday that I am not talking about others. I am leaving tomorrow for discussions with these leaders on these and other subjects, and I thought it was right to point out before this high meeting the unusual and difficult circumstances in which we found ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Bogdan Čepić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 30th emergency meeting. 11. 2010 considered the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the context of general comments among others, notes that the majority of the proposed solutions, with the exception of the provisions of the Chapter on the procedure for granting grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget in relation to the nature of the regulation, do not constitute a novelty, at the same time assesses that this chapter is systematically incorporated into the Public Finance Act. The Legal and Legislative Service shall forward further specific comments to the series of articles of the legislative proposal. Among the qualified candidates, the amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 8, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 42 and, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, four coalition groups to Article 1, Article 2, Article 18, Article 21 and Article 35 to delete the entire ninth chapter and the amendment to Article 54 of the legislative proposal. As part of the additional working material, the Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Assembly on the supervision of public finances as an interested working body and took note of the proposal of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia to supplement Article 42 of the proposal. It follows from the presentation of the solutions introduced in the context of the beginning of the second reading of the text that the text contains the usual solutions to each change in the material of the budget package, which, if necessary, are being amended accordingly for the current implementation of the budget. They are already changing this year because of the very preparation of the budget, which is slightly different from the previous years. Thus, for example, an interpretation of the new meanings of the legal terms of direct users and the possibility of reallocation to the extent of own funds is introduced. At the same time, legislative proposals confer on the Ministry of Finance the power to decide on individual transfers or the Government, with regard to the redeployment between the different sub-programmes of each or different proposers of the financial plans up to 10% of the sub-programme in the adopted budget. The comments are also worth the solution, which sets the average for the municipalities for 2011 and 2012. The debate opened with amendments to Articles 8, 24 and 42 of the legislative proposal. In addition, the Committee of the Amendments of Qualified Applicants adopted amendments to the four coalition groups of Social Democrats, Res, DeSUS and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on 1st, 2, 18, 21, 35th to delete the ninth chapter and thus Articles 46 to 52th and 54th to the legislative proposal. In doing so, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group's amendments to Article 42 of the legislative proposal to the 8th and both amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. On the basis of the decision adopted, the Committee voted on the amendment in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and adopted them together. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, according to the applicant, does not legislate specific principles or major solutions, as these are defined in Article 2 of the Public Finance Act. That's the law's proposal. The main objective of the law is, according to the proposaler, to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget rebalancing. In the SDS, we have tabled an amendment stipulating that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country under the ESA-95 methodology in the financial year must not exceed 43 % of the gross domestic product. The economic crisis has caused a significant GDP incursion. This has further fallen due to the inefficient and slow action of the Borut Pahor Government. In the absence of effective measures to reduce the general sector's expenditure or increase its revenue, the proportion of these expenditure, measured as a percentage of GDP, has increased disproportionately. Therefore, it is not possible to immediately reduce the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to 43% of GDP. For 2011 and 2012, the transitional period is therefore set at 45% of GDP in 2011 and 44% of GDP in 2012. The adoption of this amendment would reduce the expenditure of the wider sector by around €1.1 billion. The draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 in the SDS will not be supported because this law regulates the implementation of budgets that are poor, wasteful, indevelopmental and do not take account of the economic and social situation in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u24	Your Honor! The Zares Group, although with some reservations and reasonable warnings, supports the 2011 proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is logical that our position is the same or similar in the proposal for a law on the implementation of both budgets. The basic objective in some respects of the technical law is to enable the current and smooth implementation of budgets based on specific principles already defined in the Public Finance Act. In particular, the extent to which the public sector is indebted and the State guarantees granted in a given year is determined, in particular the regulation of the powers of the Government and the Ministry of Finance to implement the 2011 and 2012 budgets. It is important and responsible for the mandate of the Government under the fiscal stabiliser. At the same time, the proposed law also sets out the extent of the obligations that users can assume in the current year that will fall into payment in the coming years. With regard to the implementation of the budget, however, it should be noted that the law under discussion is not subject to the adaptation of the Slovenian regulation of European Union law. The way the budget is drawn up, if I say so, is standard. The general part of the budget shows the revenue and expenditure of the economic classification by also showing the revenue and expenditure of the European Union's dedicated resources and the expenditure of the European Union's budget. The Development Programme Plan shows the planned expenditure by programme classification, of course by project and funding sources after each year until the full implementation of the projects. In this regard, the Act contains a section on procedures for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget. The requirements and eligibility criteria for the allocation of those funds, in particular the promotion of development programmes, are being regulated. The cumulative conditions to be met by the direct users of the budget shall be laid down, as a rule, by a call for proposals appointed by the Commission. More detailed rules of procedure and criteria are laid down by the Minister responsible for finance. The emphasis of law on this issue comes quickly from the experience that trust is good, but control is even better. This also makes it appear that the proposal of the law is nominally appropriate and will enable the budget to be implemented efficiently and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, before we go anyhow, as I have been warned, I would like to remind you of a small correction in the order of the debaters at today's meeting of the National Assembly. After the finalisation and the vote on the budget package, we will consider item 2 of the Income Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. At this point, the opposite vote should be written, which means that when we finish the budget, we will move on to this point and we will vote on this point. Thus, on the third page, a strong press should read "opposite vote". Just so there's no misunderstandings. Let's move on with the position statement. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! What happened yesterday at the time of the consideration of the 2011 and 2012 draft budgets is, in my opinion, a nice thing to say for the National Assembly. For the next two years, we discussed the two most important strategic documents of this country exactly one hour and 15 minutes. Let me be more precise, we had nine members sitting in the Chamber, plus the chairman. This is my opinion of the mockery of the National Assembly, of this country and of the people. Hours and hours we are able to discuss completely irrelevant issues, second-class topics, if you want, compared to the 2011 and 2012 budgets, which should be one of the key elements for resolving the financial and economic crisis or, if you want, how do we actually deal with this crisis. Yesterday, there were not many heroes who would say anything about these most important strategic documents that will guide the entire state fiscal policy for the next two years. Maybe we don't know everything in the opposition whether something is hidden or maybe new rebalans are already coming, but what happened yesterday can't be proud of us. The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the basis for the implementation of budgets, i.e. a prerequisite for budgets. We oppose the 2011 and 2012 budgets in the SLS Group because they are unrealistic and highly unsuspecting because we are consciously planning €1.7 billion of deficits in 2011 and €1.4 billion more in 2012. In three years we will spend the good 3 billion euros more than we will have at our disposal. But what are we saving? More or less, I can say almost nothing. Most budget users, including those who have absolutely nothing to contribute to solving the economic and financial crisis, have more resources than in 2008, in the year of so-called fat cows and the greatest prosperity of the Slovenian economy in the history of independent Slovenia. For all the reasons mentioned above, we are also opposed to the law which is the basis and basis for the implementation of the budgets on which we have spoken yesterday and will only vote on them today. Once again, we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to government representatives and colleagues and colleagues! This is a law that is usually dealt with in a package with an annual budget. The aim is to legalise solutions for the current and smooth implementation of the budget. Amendments to the existing law are mainly due to changes in the preparation of the budget slightly. This is how new means of individual useful concepts are defined. A slightly revised presentation of planned expenditure in the development programme plan has been identified. Direct users are allowed to transfer their spending rights under the same sub-programme in their own financial plan, without limitation, except from Slovenian participation items and from European Union dedicated funds items and individual accounts or to individual payment items accounts. The Ministry of Finance shall be empowered to decide that, at the proposal of the proposer of the financial plan within the same sub-programme, the rights of use may be guaranteed to the other proposer of the financial plan. However, the Government shall be given the power to decide on the reallocation between the different sub-programmes of each or different proposers of the financial plans up to 10% of the sub-programme in the adopted budget. Among other things, the proposal for a new law sets the average for municipalities for 2011 and 2012. The initial proposal also included a new chapter 9 governing the procedures for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget. With the amendments, we deleted the entire chapter on the home working body, which the Government did not object to. The Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that this chapter does not belong in the law on the implementation of budgets but in the system law. We will not be supported in our parliamentary group of novelties for any known reason, because we do not support the 2011 and 2012 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget must be in order to penalise solutions that will enable the current smooth implementation of the budget. At the same time, it regulates the specific powers of the Government and the Ministry responsible for Finance to implement the 2011 and 2012 budget. Only one part of the content of this law will I stress on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and apply in particular to the Government, creators and us. Like the Prime Minister today, I would like to point out, but a whole other content. Not the financial situation in Europe, but Slovenia. In the last 15 years, Slovenia had a share of public expenditure at 44% of the gross social product. It has managed to achieve rapid economic growth and to maintain social cohesion. Optimal theories on the true share of expenditure or income are not available, but it could be said empirically that 44% is appropriate. On the part of public revenues, it can be found that the share of public financial revenues after tax reductions during this period in which we have settled at around 42 % of the gross social product. Conclusion: Slovenia would therefore maintain a normal deficit of 2% of the gross social product when maintaining 44% of public expenditure and 42% of the share of public revenues. Such a deficit goes beyond the planned normal deficit, would not be sustained in the medium term and could therefore also achieve a normal target deficit of 1% of GDP, so that Slovenia reduces the target or normal share of public expenditure to 43%. Such a reduction would be a sign of the economy, that the country is determined and that it will be cost-effective. Why am I saying this? Because, with the support of others, one of the opposition parties, who is not listening, wrote this down as a commitment to the government in Zippo in Article 8. But the parental board with the coalition as a roller coaster overrun it. Today, we have this amendment back on the table and propose that this content, i.e. the objective of sticking to 43% of GDP public expenditure, be recorded in Article 1 of Zipra. And this should be the moral duty of the government and all of us, because we signed or adopted a document yesterday, a law that interferes very strongly with the critical mass and structure of people. And if we are so honest about ourselves, how will we save that Slovenia will not fail, let us write down this goal. There may be less than 43% of GDP in public expenditure, but there must be no more. Why is this not recorded in paragraphs 1 or 8 of the Budget Implementation Act? It would be a moral duty for us to take care of ourselves, but not for the Prime Minister to come before the National Assembly today, to tell us that we will be ready to save and put again in Portugal, Ireland and elsewhere instead of our people. I am in the Slovenian National Assembly, where I am interested in Slovenian finances and where I demand from all of us that we are strict towards what will lead the Slovenian nation to good. No, 43% of GDP expenditure doesn't want to be recorded. And we can't go beyond them anymore. No, no, no. That's probably because we know where to put them. Get out. On whose account, please refer once again to article 1 of yesterday’s intervention law. It is clear that in the Slovenian National Party, if this article is not adopted, this amendment will not be supported by Zipra, nor will any of the budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Vila Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you again, Mr President, for the floor. Even if this is not explicitly stated, it is undeniable and undeniable that when we talk about the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we are talking about a whole bunch of laws that are related to this, not only to the budgets for 2011 and 2012, but also to other laws that we have already adopted and will be adopted, and to the decrees that we will decide on. It is simply a matter of ensuring that the budgets that will be adopted can also be properly implemented and that they can be balanced on the basis of this budget in the event of difficulties, derogations. We are therefore talking about budgets and the exit strategy and the fundamental problems that we want to solve with this chapter of laws, and we are talking about the ambition to keep public debt for all at an acceptable level, so that we want to reduce the deficit, that we want economic growth and, of course, the highest possible levels of employment. It is precisely this economic growth that is very important when we decide whether we support the fiscal rule or support the percentage of social product consumption. Thus, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia allows budgets to make sense at all times and makes it possible to ensure implementation at the level of commitment, at the level of the obligations that this law also entails. We know that there will be significant problems with ensuring the implementation of the budget, as I believe it will be adopted, so it is very important to have this law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the Government, to financial planners, to those who are the managers of the individual programmes, to the Ministry of Finance, in short, to those who can also decide what should be changed, complemented or restrained in the meantime if there are too many difficulties in implementation. Therefore, in our judgment, it is the essence of this law to allow for the current regulation of the circumstances that will arise and which no one today hopes to claim that they will be exactly as they are presented in the budgets. The problem of mediumness, which is a problem of Slovenian local communities, is one of the highlighted problems, but it is one of the main objectives, and we will therefore support this proposal on average, as proposed, in the Communication Group of Non-Related Members, which supports the budget and the basic objectives. As regards support for the amendment on the percentage of consumption of the social gross product or on some of the limits set by the fiscal rule, we are more inclined to this limit, especially because, as I mentioned in the introduction, this is very much linked to GDP growth, to economic growth and, of course, to the extent of spending and achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. In the event that we would like to, we do not hope to predict, GDP is growing faster than is now foreseen, this limit is, of course, very welcome if we want to reduce the public financial deficit. In the event that growth is lower than we promise, however, the Government or the Minister of Finance must cut down on the measures that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia allows, therefore, to stop the implementation of individual parts and to balance the implementation of the budget, so that this will remain financially sustainable with regard to the revenue side. I therefore predict that we will support the draft budgets, the law on the implementation of those budgets, and also the decisions that make this possible in the unrelated parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u34	Hello, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 is necessary for the financing of state projects or state budgets for both those years. The proposed law does not contain any significant changes compared to previous law on the implementation of the budget. The Regulation of the Law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budgets, which prevents the reallocation of rights between sub-programmes, is also maintained. This encourages more precise planning of budgetary users. Under such a provision, non-rational use of resources will be prevented mainly at the end of the year and the usefulness of certain sub-programmes will be assessed in terms of rational spending of budgetary resources. It should also be noted that the financing of advance payments for EU earmarked funds introduced in the amendments to the 2008 and 2009 Budget Implementation Act continues. Article 24 of this Law provides, in which cases and in what way advance payments are possible, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing public finances and which prohibits prepayments in principle. This provision is intended to speed up the use of European funds in particular and to facilitate the implementation of projects financed from the European Union. The first point of paragraph 1 of this Article provides that advance payments may only be made on the basis of the direct application of the rules of the European Union. This provision can only be understood as an explanatory provision, since there is no doubt that individual rules of the European Union need to be implemented in national law and other European rules must be applied directly. In the event of application of this provision, the budgetary user will only take into account the conditions and rules of the European Regulation when making payments. Article 24, paragraph 1, provides the possibility of pre-payments of 20% of the European Union’s allocated funds received. In order to conclude a contract with which overpayment may be agreed, the consent of the Minister responsible for finance is necessary and the provision selects the entities with which the advance may be agreed. The aim of the provision is to enable non-profit organisations of private law and a chamber exercising public powers under the law governing social protection to carry out projects which, given that it does not have adequate resources, could not be implemented. The risk-taking liability for any undue use of funds shall be borne by the budgetary user concluding the contract, as the third paragraph of this Article provides that if the recipient does not justify the prepayment received by contractually agreed evidence, the rights of use on integral items in the financial plan of the direct user who has agreed to the advance payment shall be reduced to the extent of the advance payments. The second paragraph of the new Article entails the obligation to conclude a contract in the case of advance payments, the obligation to agree on the repayment of funds and, in the case of undue payment, the definition of what is undue payment. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, hello to the minister, the minister and everyone else here! Today we are discussing the law on the implementation of the budget. In this debate, you can see for yourself that yesterday and today there are not many debaters, because we actually feel that we have no reason to discuss matters that are taking this country or budget to a worse situation from day to day. I must tell you that the public sector is not in any way reducing costs, but is putting increasing pressure on the economy. All economic operators are so weak that they think, one is even leaving our country. In our country, we are extremely capable people who actually only know how to raise the taxes of the economy, the mollusks of those people, the economic sector that ultimately gives the most. When will this be over? The end may be soon. The public sector is more and less from day to day. We have to pour ourselves some clean wine. We have the most expensive fuel. We raise excise duties day by day. This reduces the state budget rather than raises it. All the transit that goes through Slovenia leaves here only if I can say so in jargon, piggy, and carry money to other countries. I don't know how we can't overlook these things, so we can start thinking differently. I would expect that, in this mandate, at least in the financial sector, we would be more able to do so, since we ultimately have two finance ministers, if I may say so. It is true that the Minister of Development and the Minister of Finance are somehow the same as the institution that should operate hand in hand. It is true that the Ministry of Development gives the economy bits or grains and, on the other hand, other institutions take more and more money from day to day. We need to know that a country from year to year is more indebted and is growing public debt. In fact, last year the country had a billion 800 million more deficits, which is exactly what it is planned for this year. When are we going to block our spending from income? I don't see any successful master who could spend more than he created. That is why we still have nothing to fear for our future, but we can be afraid of our explorers, our children, how and where we are being led by a policy that we make to the craftsmen. I would like to actually start thinking together to start reducing and cutting public sector costs, to reduce the number of people whose impact is a maximum of three, four hours, to reduce and pool ministerial resources, so that we can take several steps to reduce public sector spending. This would help reduce the duties of the economic sector, attracting more economic operators to Slovenia, more investors to Slovenia, and make the country a more successful country. I hope you understand whether or not, I would like to see that we really have an understanding of the economic sector, the agricultural sector, the sector that generates gross social income in the state treasury, and that we should finally start thinking about reducing taxes, not from day to day, on raising taxes on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Matthew Vraničar, also spoke. Then I'll open up new applications. Please, Mrs. Vranicari.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment briefly on the amendment that has been tabled. I must say that the amendment interferes with areas governed by other rules and does not provide for a relationship to these arrangements. I would like to recall that, under the Public Finance Act, the Regulation on Development Planning Documents and Procedures for the preparation of the State Budget proposal, which sets out the fiscal rule as the limit of public financial expenditure, has been adopted. What is the ratio of the proposal for an amendment setting out the level of expenditure at 43% of gross domestic product in relation to the fiscal rule, the amendment does not state. Finally, from a formal point of view, I must point out that the first proposed paragraph or proposal for a new fourth paragraph constitutes a systemic provision which does not fall within the scope of the law which provides for the implementation rules of the 2011 and 2012 budgets. However, with regard to the proposal of paragraph 5, I must say, well, paragraph 4 also concerns the expenditure of the whole wider sector of the country. These expenditure shall include, inter alia, European appropriations, expenditure on dedicated revenue from state and municipal budgets, as well as all expenditure incurred by those entities on the market in accordance with the applicable rules. It takes account of the legislation in force, and in particular of the constitutional provisions relating to the situation of municipalities which are autonomous in their availability of their public financial resources, it is difficult to imagine how such a provision would have been implemented without being operationalised by more detailed instruments and measures to achieve such a limitation on the expenditure of the wider sector of the country. In our opinion, it's not. In addition, a few words concerning the proposed percentage. Compared to what amount of expenditure and revenue has been in previous years, if I start in 2008, which we have mentioned a lot in the past day, let me mention that expenditure in 2008 amounted to a good 44% of gross social product, with GDP being realised higher than GDP in this year. Thus, already in the year when economic growth was, say, at the surplus, it was not possible to achieve the objective that is set for the period of economic crisis. The speech today was that this provision must constitute a moral commitment to determining expenditure and regulating public finances. I recall, however, that we are not laying down moral rules, but we are laying down legal rules which must also be enforceable in practice and in my opinion such a proposal to supplement Article 1 in practice in the way it is set out is not feasible. Moreover, it is contrary to other applicable rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Minister Mitja Gaspari also spoke. Then there's the application. Please, mag. Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to answer Mr Horvath for a moment. I think that his presentation was interesting in this sense, because, after all, Parliament is beginning to create the awareness that certain fiscal rules for the functioning of the public sector in Slovenia are necessary. What is at present a difference is a technical nature, we interpret differently what a fiscal rule should be and how it should be implemented. I wouldn't comment on what was said about taxes. If we look at objective numbers, this moment Slovenia is in all tax elements somewhere on the average of the European Union, seven-twenties, where we exceed, the only thing on the job tax, namely for employees who have a higher salary than the average wage, is this known Slovenian problem that we have unlimited social security contributions, regardless of what the individual’s income is. As a result, in some employment segment, we have a significant situation in which quality jobs are being pushed out of business because employers do not want to pay above average high obligations for employees. Sooner or later this problem will have to be resolved in Slovenia. And this is the only serious problem that hinders the competitiveness of Slovenian companies in the international market from the tax stance, in other taxes, if I limit myself to these principals alone, we are on average in the European Union, where we are also on the basis of our level of development. I wouldn't talk about exaggeration like that. It's about excise duties. The excise duties have risen in one period due to reasons which were completely fiscal in nature, since this is the least distortive tax that the State can impose on a short period of time, everyone else would be significantly worse – such as VAT or, say, income or something like that. In addition to excise duty, the State has stopped and will not increase excise duty as much as originally envisaged. This was also the subject of an amendment to the law in the National Assembly. What is basically a problem in Slovenia when we talk about public finances is that in no time in the last ten years has it been possible to adjust public sector spending or public spending to the real long-term trend of our economic growth. As a rule, we have not used good years to save and could spend more in worse years without making the public financial situation significantly worse or worse. We can argue about this in a professional way, but numbers speak for themselves, and it's hard to move them when they're once as they are. What was already at the extraordinary session, when you put a law with a similar content, such as this amendment, into procedure, it was also very clear that in principle we agree that Slovenia needs stronger rules of play in the planning, enforcement and control of public finances. In our opinion, what the Government will propose next year within the Public Finance Act, which must be amended and which is the basic act in which such rules are recorded, not in the law on enforcement, but in the law on the implementation of the budget, can be written down on the basis of such a rule, which is in the Public Finance Act, if this is not enshrined in the Public Finance Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that Germany has made a serious error when it has written in its Constitution fixed numbers that are now being moved on time because in a crisis situation these rules have become somewhat ineffective or completely ineffective, and thus also damages the quality of this rule if it begins to change. It is therefore necessary to strike an appropriate balance between the validity of the rule and its adaptability to circumstances that cannot be affected by it itself, namely situations that are outside the world. The government will propose the following solutions for next year. First time. It will propose a two-stage process for the adoption of the State budget, namely, in April, the first stage in which a medium-term rule for public financial expenditure will be laid down, which will mean public financial expenditure for the country, for other budgetary users such as both social funds and for the municipalities. Congregations must also be subject to rules similar to those of the State, and this can be regulated by law. It is not necessarily by law on the financing of municipalities, but by law on public finances covering all budgetary users, and such users are also municipalities, although they are independent local institutions or self-government. In April, Parliament should decide what will be the four-year movement of public financial expenditure, not as a percentage, but as an absolute amount. As this moment has been commanded for the state budget, it is expected to be €10 billion in about three years, and this is also the case with the figures for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In this way, this data on the target is also actually verifiable, if measured relatively, at least one of these quantities in the fraction cannot be affected, this is a social product for which we do not have data on what the realisation was when we implement the budget. So this is a flawed criterion, as was the case in international circles when the objectives were discussed. The same has also proved to be a poor goal, for example, the UK's gold rule, which found that government revenue needs to be equalled with government-run current expenditure, and has now found that they have a deficit of 13% of the social product. So the rule didn't work in Britain either. The most robust such rule may work if it is defined in an absolute number. At the same time as such a proposal for a fiscal rule, which will be clearly justified, as I said, in the law, the Government will also explain the allocation of these funds to the basic developmental public financial policy, so that Parliament can then discuss those matters relating to the stability programme and the so-called national reform programme. This will allow us to enter into the procedure which has been prescribed since January in the European Union. Slovenia will also follow this because such rules and methods of action reduce entropy and poor control over the implementation of public financial expenditure. On the basis of these conclusions of the National Assembly, the Government shall draw up a budget which goes into normal procedure in September as usual. So this two-stage process will allow for a more serious discussion of development priorities, of why we want to and where we want to direct money, in principle according to individual development policies, and then of when individual budget users or ministries or others, on the basis of these constraints, have to prepare their budget documents, not the other way around, as has been the case in the past, when individual ministries, depending on their power and certain other characteristics, are preparing their budget documents. In this way, we will be able to achieve what is required of us in the coming years, and this is to achieve, in the medium term, a level playing field or a slight deficit in structurally adjusted public financial expenditure, given our pension situation. It is quite clear that Slovenia is among the five countries most threatened by this view in the medium term. Slovenia has the worst demographic situation, or between the five worst ones, and the calculation of what it would mean to fail to implement pension reform by 2030 is that Slovenia should consistently have an annual structural surplus of at least 0.8% in public finances, which means that, at the expense of the non-executed pension reform, expenditure in other areas should be continuously reduced, as far as possible, the Parliament may decide, but then the following steps will be taken consciously. This clear picture is important in that first phase of the debate in the National Assembly, which we hope will follow in the month of April next year or will have to follow, because it is now the commitment of all countries of the European Union to respect the so-called European Semester and therefore this preparation, which you have documented before the days of the National Reform Programme, which will be the twin document of the stability programme in which two topics will be addressed, one is fiscal stability and the other is structural change, which will also guarantee this fiscal stability over the longer term. I welcome this debate, which began in Parliament on fiscal rules, because this is a major step forward in the light of the past. I think we will also find a common language in defining this concept in the following year, at the beginning of the year with amendments to the Public Finance Act, and thus pave the way for a stable public financial policy in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. We are discussing the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. I'm asking you to sign up. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We are talking about an amendment providing that the fourth paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on the implementation of the budget is added, which provides that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country must not exceed 43% of the gross social product, and the fifth paragraph, which according to the current situation, is about 50% of the gross social product on expenditure, gives the possibility that in 2011 there is a maximum of 45% of the gross social product of expenditure and 12,44% of the gross social product. That's the first fact. The second fact is that, in the debate on this amendment, the State Secretary stated that this article and this content are not part of the law on the implementation of the budget. I would then like to remind you that there are also procedures in the law on the implementation of the budget for granting subsidies, loans and other forms for which the Legislative and Legal Service also considers that they are not part of the law on the implementation of the budget, but they are in here. The third content, why I'm advocating this amendment, is to tell me where this information belongs. Where? He's not in the budget, he's not in Zipper. Where? What documents? That you will not think that this is an invention of SDS or Barovic or anyone else, but I will quote, "Slovenia could reduce the target normal share of public expenditure to 43%. Such a reduction would be a sign to the economy that the country is determined to be cost-effective. With such a share, Slovenia would still maintain a dynamic economy and a cohesive social policy." And now, essentially, the fiscal council of this government, this government has named it, the fiscal council will therefore have 43% of public expenditure on gross social product for that reference share, in terms of which it will assess Slovenia's public financial policy. So the data that's been calculated by the fiscal world. The fiscal world exists, it was named by this government probably because there are experts in it to help this government. And except in the report of the Fiscal Council, where we're going to write this down, it's going to be binding on all of us to do so. Where? We can throw this report away. They themselves said that they were little surprised to see that the report was happy to be done, but that they could not see any more — the members of the fiscal world themselves at the meeting of the mother’s working body. So what? Then let's write on paper and throw them away. But if this commitment is written somewhere, unfortunately the only chance is now this Zippo, but it will be at least one of our commitments, a commitment that hurts. And even then, we will not be so smart, whether social or a social, when we talk about intervention law, because then we will know that intervention law must be and must respect this rule. That is why we want this element to be enshrined in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and be possible and attainable by 2013. And what it would mean is once again that the country is determined to be cost-effective and that Slovenia will be able to maintain a dynamic economy and a cohesive social policy. And that's all. And this is the conclusion of the fiscal world, not Bogdan Barovich, not SDS, but we're reading it. But we read because we need to include these things, and we need to help the government and include them in certain instruments and in certain papers, so that we can finally achieve some results. That's why. And now say where it belongs, where it doesn't belong, I'm used to it, that everything that doesn't please, it doesn't belong anywhere. He's in there or he's not in there. Maybe it doesn't belong, I don't know, but it would be nice to know where it's meant to be respected, but not that it's just gonna be written in a report from the fiscal world that we'll forget about the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll try to be very brief. I have listened very closely to the Secretary of State and also to Mr Gaspari. Yeah, we agree. But with respect and respect, you're late. You're late! And it is the content of this amendment in the expenditure of the wider sector that is, in fact, planning or limiting resources. And if we came from a government president's announcement, which initially symbolically indicated that it would have to be reduced in this wider sector when he announced that he would pay for his own coffee. Since then, it has been necessary to reflect on the need to limit these expenditure in the wider sector of the country. But unfortunately, you've been waiting. And look, look at this absurdity! The Prime Minister tells us that something has to be done, nothing has happened, something small for makeup. After all he has foretold, however, we can see that just at the time when we are talking about the worst crisis, the visit of some of the government, when they attend the 65th meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations, appears to be EUR 137 000 in damage. Now look at the difference. From one coffee, instead of actually following some measures, we get to 137 000 euros just like that. If we are saving, if we are to improve the situation, then, of course, we are following this amendment. And this is what we want to draw attention to, or in particular, something must happen, because, since 2005, when we compare the state budget after years, when we look at revenue and expenditure, this is going uncontrollably. This will become uncontrollable if we do not act now and immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. We have missed strict fiscal rules in Europe and also in Slovenia and, last but not least, are probably the reasons why we are facing such consequences of the financial and economic crisis. Some countries did not adhere to Maastricht's relatively strict rules, but non-sanctioning has led to the collapse of public finances in some countries. A typical example is Greece, probably another country. Why am I saying this? Because Slovenia should also be aware of this. Slovenia should also set itself very strict public financial rules to stabilise public finances in the long term and to allow, in the long run, the development of the competitiveness of the economy. Public expenditure management is extremely linked to competitiveness, as public spending puts pressure on those who provide income for these expenditure. This is the economy, the part of the productive economy that creates is actually providing money for this public spending. With this amendment, we want to limit this public spending to a percentage of what has been created. We follow some healthy farming logic that we must not spend more than we create in the country, and that we must tie consumption to what we created. The government opposes that. The government has a different fiscal rule, a more comfortable fiscal rule. This fiscal rule says, irrespective of what was created, the state can spend about €10 billion, regardless of the country's gross domestic product. I think that this rule is the result of a former public financial picture of Slovenia and a relatively favourably inherited public financial image inherited from the former government. In fact, this government was granted a mandate of approximately 22,5 % of the public debt measured in gross domestic product. This is a relatively low rate compared to other euro area countries and the European Union. So the area of indebtedness and spending space is large before they reach some of the borders of Maastricht, which say that stability is threatened with 60% of the public debt measured in gross domestic product. You've started at 22.5, now you're at 40, and you'll probably make some quick progress on this scale up here if you don't seriously limit public spending. And because of this inherited or this environment and the specifics of Slovenia, you have decided on a relatively comfortable fiscal rule so that we can spend up to 10 billion. So we can spend more than we did when the higher gross domestic product was and when the economy was booming. You set yourself a fiscal fiscal rule so you can spend more than at the best of times. At the same time, you see the previous government spending too much in good times. Now understand if you can – you are doing the right thing because you spend 1.7 billion more than you create, and what you constantly do from year to year, not only would it be a special year. In the 2011 budget, you will create 1.7 billion euro minus, which is about to expire, and in 2012 1.5 billion. If this is a proper fiscal rule, God help us. I don't think so. That's why we're proposing this amendment. Therefore, we propose an amendment to bind the public financial expenditure on the gross domestic product created, from 46% in the start-up and gradually every year for 1 percentage point, we reduce this consumption and come to this 43% in the target year. Can you do that? To do it. To do so by deleting all unnecessary expenditure that has no or very little impact on economic activity. One typical example is, for example, this unfortunate system that you want to introduce, satellite tolling, where you will not know which foreign company you will pay hard over 150 million euros for this thing. Is that what we need right now? Is this an expense we can afford right now? The question is whether it will eventually work and whether it will not be one of the stranded investments that we already have. Not to mention this wealthing of some public sector systems across borders. I've already mentioned, say, an example of education. And I'll tell him again, because we probably have another audience here and so on. In about 15 to 20 years we have doubled the number of teachers per student, on average, in Slovenian schools. We've doubled the number of jobs, the number of places where these people are, the equipment and so on. And that costs us. Have we doubled the quality of education at this time? We didn't. We're back in the evening. So there is no excessive correlation between the number of teachers per student and the quality of education, especially in primary schools. However, there is a large correlation between the public expenditure and the number of these teachers. Moreover, the current Minister of Education has introduced elements of self-governance in schools. How? So that teachers have a majority in choosing the principal. Most of them, they can determine the director themselves, and usually the one who has a very soft hand to them, and they can probably just enjoy spending public finances. The founder, this is a local community, has a minority, a strong minority in sacred institutions. These are elements that, on the other hand, respectable gentlemen are forcing some disproportionate spending on public finances and deepening this hole. And you have decided not to systematically reduce expenditure in these areas where you could. And it is likely that some other area where a healthy mind could be found, according to the goals of a knowledge-based society, would make an incision that would be useful to all. We could probably also talk about pre-school education and another sector of this broad public sector. So there are more than enough reasons not to systematically go about limiting this expenditure and follow this fiscal rule of yours, yes, fix it to 10 billion. No, we need to fix them on what they're made of. And that is essentially the proposal of this amendment. And one more thing. Retirement reform and public financial pressure on pensions due to pension reform were mentioned. I will tell you that because of the ill-planned economic policy measures you yourself have caused this thing. And I will highlight this to you on the case of Germany, which did not build this so drasticly. The case of the German economy and the German measures to promote economic activity went in a different direction than yours. It was so-called Kenyan oriented. The Germans promoted economic activity in their country through a number of measures. They did not create the conditions for not working and getting money, but for promoting the economy in operation. Subsidies have been introduced in a wide range of areas, such as subsidies for the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. And what did they do? Now, at about the same rate of unemployment as before the crisis, they have about the same number of unemployed. What does that mean? This means that the payers in the pension register are about as much as they were then, so they have the payers in this cash register. What did we do? However, we have done that we now have at least 40,000 unemployed more than before the crisis, according to data, and if we take into account those in employment conservation instruments, in working-time waiting instruments and full-time instruments, we have practically doubled the number of unemployed. Of course, these payers are no longer in the pension register. And since they are gone, the instability of this pension fund and the problem of finances in this pension fund are significantly greater than it would have been if we had managed to maintain jobs in such a way as to create important projects and employ the economy. That can be done. However, you did not because you were working in a diametric way against such policies, although we proposed it two years ago, I don't know, two years ago, six months ago, I don't know how many of these packages of measures the opposition proposed that went in this direction. Now you are hustling over a problem that you have partly caused yourself and telling us the necessity of pension reform. I am convinced that an important element of pension reform, which you do not want to take into account at all, is the creation of new jobs, not the increase in the types of unemployed. That's the problem. Because if we create a job, we create a payer in a pension box. Not that we are creating new ones that draw on funds from public finances and, of course, then also put pressure on this expenditure side of the budget. Respectfully, this fiscal rule is very much linked to budgetary documents and it is a message to this government that it should limit, for God's sake, public expenditure in relation to what has been created in this country and not waste it because of the situation in which it is, across all borders. We see that we have been overheared, unheard of, and that you will follow the path you have imagined, even further. But we want to tell you that this is the wrong way. And we want to tell you that we will always warn you about this wrong way when you provoke us with such documents. And earlier, a colleague from the People's Party, Mr Žerjav, had pointed out that there had been a shameful little discussion with the budget documents. That's right. Why? Because in such an unbalanced document, where it is a 1.7 billion hole, it is pointless to table an amendment so that, I don't know, the Ministry of Finance, in what I know, takes EUR 5 million to some administrative task and is given to the maternity in Brežica because it is unrelated. Why? Because this will not stabilise public finances and solve the problem of Slovenia absolutely nothing. Therefore, we have not tabled any amendments to both draft budgets in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we have tabled those essential amendments to the essential laws. And this is this essential amendment that could bring a lot of benefits in the long run. However, it would probably cause a lot of problems for this government, which should actually limit this expenditure and cut into some sectors drastically. You've had two years to prepare system laws, cuts in these sectors. Two years. But I don't know which other law could make the grounds for these cuts, but you didn't, because you don't feel this need, and we feel it, so we're also proposing it, and we're always going to remind you of these things. What would prevent such an amendment? I would prevent this imbalance between expenditure and revenue from being maintained in the budget for the coming years. This deficit, which is greater today than you planned for January this year – you are now predicting in both budget documents a 1% higher deficit than you planned in the exit strategy you adopted in January this year. Look at that. You will see that in the exit strategy you planned a budget deficit, I speak for 2011, 3.7%, now you have 4.7% and for 2012 it was planned for 2.7%, now you have 3.8% in the budget documents. So, this mismatch and this difference between revenue and expenditure is going to yawn in the future, and it's going to burden future generations because they're going to have to pay for it once. The other thing is. Such a fiscal rule as you have, and the non-adoption of this amendment maintains the approach that will not address the causes of this instability or the lack of alignment of income and expenditure in the future, will not be addressed for any reason. What's more important? The expenditure side of the budget will not be restructured. So we will slowly get into a situation where current expenditure with interest and all these things are worth swallowing, literally swallowing into the investment area, and it will be much less. Now we have investments already embedded more or less in European funds, then it will be even worse, because 2013 will be close and these resources will become smaller. What, in fact, have you done with such an approach and your fiscal rule that 10 billion can be spent, not a percentage of gross domestic product? You've done this by having investment expenditure and transfers in 2011 for 1.4 billion and deficits for 1.7. So we have a larger deficit, such as investment expenditure and transfers together. What does that mean by soundness of mind? We are more indebted and have more minus than we have all the investments together. Isn't that an alarming information, or is it a violation of some healthy axiom of stable finances? You can be in charge of as much as you invest in something new that will generate additional value. But if you're already in charge of current consumption, it's a first-degree alarm. This is happening now, and this is obviously going to happen on. Not to mention that, of course, because of such an unstructured budget, there is absolutely no serious priority, except that what is written inside, raising the competitiveness of the economy, would be a serious priority for this government. On the contrary, you're suffocating her with measures. One typical example is that pension reform provides for additional burden on the economy or increases in social security contributions. This is said to increase in a specific way the basis for the calculation of contributions, of course, in absolute terms these contributions will be raised. This is also an additional bar for the development of the economy. So, respectable, these are the reasons why we believe that spending in this country should be tied to what was created, because it is only in this way that we can eliminate the causes of these anomalies, because we can consequently restructure public finances and, consequently, we can devote more money. The Minister of Public Administration is laughing at me, with the number of employees in the public sector increased to 160 000 in this mandate, with the government having more than 4 thousand 300 civil servants than it had at the beginning of its term of office. These are your numbers. And that is also why we have such an unfortunate situation of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, honourable Member, Mr Luka Juri will confirm that I greeted him with a smile. Is that right? So this smile was not intended for you, and I never make fun of the debates of Members, which I am seriously following, with a whisper, with thinking. I'm always trying to answer with arguments if I can find them. And the debate and repetition of some of the data that I have already discussed several times in the past, respected Mr Visjak, tried, your claims, to deny me with contrary arguments, in my desire to do it again and again, but to tire me out. This government has not hired 4,000 more people. This government has not hired more than 4,000 people in these two years. You know exactly that during the time of this government, for the first time I started to monitor the number of employees according to the number of hours worked, this is the only record we have today in the Republic of Slovenia and is run by Apes, talking about the number of hours spent in the public sector. My predecessor, when he spoke about data on the number of employees in the state administration, always limited himself to a narrower administration and in this part he is from 1. Ten. 2008-1. Ten. 2010 by over 400 bureaucrats less. Pika. That's information. In order to actually increase the number of employees in other service activities and this increase is exactly the same as it has been since 2004, during your government's annual level of about a thousand 200 employees, from thousands to thousands of 200 employees, these hours have also been shown every year during your term of office. Please take a look at this information. And the same is happening in our government. We are only closely monitoring this and have instructed that the number of employees where it is not necessary does not increase. What is monitoring us where the number of employees increased in 2009 and 2010? Dear Mr Vizjak, the employees are increasing by 700, I have repeatedly said, in the area of pre-school education, because of your government's support for the adoption of good legislation for the inclusion of pre-school children in kindergarten, the obligation to provide new pre-school departments in local communities has caused so many new teachers or educators to be employed within two years. For over 400 there are new employees in nursing homes. During your term of office and even during our time, the construction of a home for the elderly was completed. You don't expect us to leave them empty. In this part of the new capacity from also major needs due to demographic structure were employed by people, public servants who today provide for older people in nursing homes. The next 400 new employees in this two-year period are to be attributed to health employment. There is also an increase in the number of employees due to the reinforcement and reconstruction of new homes, hospitals and healthcare needs, also due to demographic structure. Only here, in these areas, do we record an increase in the number of employees. It also associates that the Government, with a conclusion in three areas where we have approached not linear declines, but we have checked the situation in specific areas, in three areas with conclusions, allowing for a fuller system of jobs. This is about strengthening inspections, we did not limit employment in 2009, in the field of the Ministry of Defence, we allowed the employment of soldiers, and in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, the employment of police officers was allowed. All with careful follow-up. Mr Vizjak, therefore, the increase in the number of employees is due to the fact that legislation sets the scope of rights and public service standards for our citizens and citizens, whom we estimate in this government that, given the public financial situation, we will not reduce them by reducing the standard in the field of health care, in the area of pre-school, school education, this is once again possible for our country. For the next fundamental question, of course, on which no one wants to discuss seriously and we are only discussing at the principle level, is if we can no longer be able, if this debt is really unacceptable, which rights that people are used to today will we take. I would like to ask you, Mr Vizjak, to read in the Economic Movement, in October, to explain clearly what is happening to us at the cost of working in the public sector. These labour costs were already too high in 2008 according to the economy's capacity. They have become unacceptably high with wage reform. That this salary reform is recorded not in a law that this government could unilaterally change, but that the way and dynamics in public sector wage increases of EUR 500 million are enshrined in the collective agreement is a major problem. and people have these higher salaries, which were estimated at more than too high in 2008 after the analysis that was carried out. This is a serious problem, a very serious problem, and it causes non-competitiveness, including the economy. The same applies to the finding that the number of employees in relation to the members of the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia, respected Mr Vizjak, in all areas, both in the field of public administration and education, in the field of health and social protection is not too high and the cost of work is too high in terms of economic capacity. These are just objective indicators, and that during this period we can maintain social cohesion, that we can channel resources for the competitiveness of the economy, for the technological breakthrough, that we do not save on our current use, I said yesterday and today I will not repeat. We're very, very much saving, including on wages. Two years of this growth that you've actually planned, we're stopping for once. Public sector labour costs as well. This year's labour costs will be reduced by halting wage growth, wage increases are recorded only around 1%, growth will be negative for the second year, according to the intervention law, which in a significant part of the public sector's labour costs are lower, plus 5% for the remaining labour costs. So, Mr Vizjak, they do not claim that this government, with these budgets, by directing funds towards those development priorities, has not tightened the belt in all other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak asked for a replica. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you did not deny by one single sentence that 4 thousand 300 people in the public sector are more in your government's mandate, as this was published yesterday in one of the Slovenian newspapers. Please face them. Face them and disqualify their data, that's their data from the iPad data. That's one thing. The second thing is precisely what the minister said was that because of a continuity defined in the laws, they needed new and new jobs. In times of crisis, it would probably be worth rewinding this legislation and limiting employment in the public sector. And it's not true that by restricting myself to the standard, it's not true. And I'll show you, on one occasion, and I'll prove it to you on another case. I wouldn't name concrete births, but I know three cases where about one baby is born, and up to twice as many employees in the same maternity ward of a hospital as in another hospital. However, according to the quality standards, they are all about the same. If you analyze employees from different departments of different schools, health institutions, you will find incredible imbalances. Some, even in the larger centres, have employed amazingly, and some in the countryside, where they are actually warming up with these threats of whether or not they are going to close, have been watching and limiting this trend of employment. And today you have huge imbalances at the expense of the same quality standards. Perhaps, Minister, we agree here. I hope so, at least. I want to tell you that in times of crisis, we could use this crisis as an opportunity to make serious cuts in this area as well. But you told me earlier that because of a certain continuity, including the rules of the previous mandate, you had to keep working and that you continued to work. Not you, Government, I speak the public sector, the public sector is more than you. On the contrary, you have even created conditions in this government to employ more. I have already mentioned the method of appointing principals, that is, bosses, who, as a result, have also opened up new jobs. So that's the problem, Your Honor. The problem is that in times of crisis, it did not behave counter-crisisly, but it did follow some continuity from high-conjunctural times, which is a mistake. Each government must adapt and rule according to the situation and perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Am I giving time to apply for a debate before marriage? Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian proverb says goodness is an orphan. This is likely to come to the attention of this government. Today, as clearly as I have heard from a fellow Member of the Visiak, I hope that she will also understand that because of continuity, it has been said that some of the laws that were obviously very populist, very popular, today the Government, which has been working very hard to alleviate social distress, is experiencing criticism from the authors of these laws and such policies, why it has not changed that. There were many demands that, at the time of this term, certain laws that had been poorly prepared could be assessed in a matter of time, even harmful. Comrade Visjak himself mentioned the Children's Protection Act. How much opposition and how much warning it was that free kindergarten was not a good solution. That we have cases in the congregations where mothers who do not have a job or who do not need a job decide and put a child in kindergarten because it is free. Therefore, the increase in the number of employees, which is why increased costs in kindergartens, therefore increased costs of municipal budgets and today the criticism of why these laws have not changed. And so it is practical in all areas. These warnings came at the beginning of this government's operation, even when the budget for 2009, 2010 and 2011, when they are practically repaid, I can argue that there are also some unnecessary mega-man investment in some cases of municipalities, in areas where the mayors or where the directors from the "right" parties were. This has been warned by some at the beginning of this government. However, this government is better than it was before, so it covered, financed, and today, from the mouth of the same authors, it experiences these findings. I think it's a bit of a hoax. Discussions yesterday at the time of the adoption of the intervention law were so unfair to citizens and citizens that one really wonders what some want – better for all, even pensioners. It is very good that no amendments are tabled, for then we would listen to how to help firefighters, how to help teachers, how to talk about how to help everyone, and how to know that there is no money. And as long as such messages come from Parliament, not to be made clear and loud, from all mouths, positions and opposition, the crisis is so severe that these hardships of these people, the countries, should be realized by everyone, not that we are here throwing forward who is responsible for the situation, and the obvious behind what has been wrong. And what's most surprising to a man is this duality of someone who, after two years, appears not to have changed what was obviously bad. Perhaps this government has taken little advantage of this crisis. It was not enough for people to feel that it was a crisis, so this strong negotiations on the strike of public sector workers, which we know is difficult for people to understand. And all the attempts yesterday, even when adopting the Small Work Act, are a practical repetition of the same stories, just to make bad advertising or some accusations and criticism of the government. I don't think it's a good thing, but it's mostly, for some cases, it's even a little overturned.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The main discussion was on the appropriateness of the fiscal rule. I am sorry that I cannot have a proper dialogue with a fellow opposition who spoke before Mr Posedel because he is no longer in the Chamber; he said his words and left. However, out of respect for him and for others, I will nevertheless try to respond, and perhaps my colleague will continue the discussion later. The differences in financial and economic policy between Slovenia and Germany were mentioned, the differences they hold, but it was forgotten that these differences stem from a significant difference in the structure of the Slovenian and German economies. The German economy, which is as much as the Slovenian export-oriented but significantly more global export-oriented. And the German economy, where much of its products is the final product. In Slovenia we have decided on a different development. Part of this is understandable because of the small open economy, and in part it could also be different because we have seen with this crisis what is the advantage of those who can offer the final products directly to the market and what is the dependence of those like us in Slovenia who offer only certain parts of these products to these other markets producing the final products. And, of course, when the crisis occurs, it is understandable that each economy will first squeeze with external operators, external suppliers and later at home. This is also why it is not surprising that, while in Germany, economic growth started faster and, of course, the resulting decrease in unemployment, this is evident in Slovenia later. Also because part of our economy depends on German orders. When the German economy began to operate again, the domestic sector was previously stimulated and later it is also known outside the strictly domestic sector, i.e. in Slovenia. Nevertheless, I think it makes sense to acknowledge this government, as most likely any other government would have done, that the government would have done the same if it had been led by opposition parties, that it had managed to significantly limit the number of unemployed. The limit or fear that this number could increase to 140 000 was real and based on economic analysis and the fact that today, among the indications, we have only 100,000 unemployed, i.e. 40,000 less than those that could be possible, is also the success of this government. A success that, as the Opposition Colleague said, does not have to be laughed at because it is likely that the opposition colleagues, if they were in the government, would do the same, so that we do not blink our fingers here, if only this coalition managed to do so. [[...]] It would likely have been similar in other cases. But the fact is, as we bear a lot of responsibility for the wrong decisions made by everyone and it is right to recognise, identify and eliminate them, it is also right to find out what were the right decisions and to insist on them, as far as it makes sense. This, of course, raises the issue of pension reform, which I think is necessary here. And blind ourselves to the fact that, as long as we increase employment by a certain percentage, we will no longer need pension reform, I don't think it's right. The pension system, the fact being so, was based on some kind of pyramidal economic system, where more employees financed pension funds for fewer pensioners. Now that our society is developing and that quality of life, thank God, is improving, life is longer, there are normally more pensioners who live longer. In view of this, the number of employees able to finance pension funds for such pensioners is relatively decreasing. For this reason, it is understandable and only wise – and here we can understand between the lines that the opposition understands, perhaps it could have done differently, but the point would be very similar – that this pyramid of the pension system narrows down because the social structure narrows down is no longer a pyramid, but it becomes a contiguous form. Finally, the answer to the observation of spending across the border. It is true that any state system that has not in fact changed, other than top management, top political management, we are talking about the government and ministers in the previous or current system, every state system is very much in terms of savings, and it is very difficult to accept certain changes in everyday practice. Let's just look at what we do in the National Assembly, when there are still hundreds and hundreds of pages of press every day without video clips, when we have them on the Internet in handy PDF form, or when each Member still receives the entire draft budget and also the 2011 budget changes in printed form and so on. But well, they're moving forward, or very slowly, in my opinion, too slowly, but it's obviously the nature of people and they are, unfortunately, people. Nevertheless, this government is implementing, I think, the good policies proposed and introduced by the previous coalition, whether they are pre-election candy or not, but the decision, for example, to improve standards in school and pre-school education – we are also talking about co-financing kindergartens and the free participation of kindergartens by another child – which, in my opinion, were but a long-term positive decision, but that this government, as far as possible in the context of the money we have, is making. The observation that it is being wasted across all borders, and so between the lines is said, "why are you not...", this is a criticism, and the answer is, "Because we have not neutralized certain decisions and laws of the previous government." I don't think it's the right thing to do. This government has rather decided to identify what it can further implement, the measures envisaged before the crisis and which it continues to implement. So I don't think it makes sense from this point of view that the opposition is putting such criticisms on the ground, because in fact it is in this way that it puts a bullet in the knee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the introduction to the debate on this amendment of the SDS Group of Members, of course I would like to say only when it is said, I think that mag. Radovan Žerjav, that there was no discussion of the budget and that it is bad that this is a bad message. I think the debate has been, but a lot of this debate has taken place under the intervention law that we have adopted, where the key decisions that were important to the budget have been taken, much of this budgetary debate has taken place right under this law, and therefore less so with the budgets themselves. That's my view, because I'm here all the time. And a second time. I'll be here, oddly enough, maybe I'll give a confession to the SDS Group if you want. If I understand them correctly, they have waived the application of amendments that transfer funding from one item to other popular items for local communities, roads and so on. And, if I understand them correctly, they went with some amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget, to which, generally as a conceptual matter, they proposed such an amendment as they proposed. This seems much more acceptable to me in this respect, although I do not agree conceptually with this amendment. And here my agreement with what we're supposed to do stops. My message and my answers to what the mag said. Vizjak, it's very simple. Ladies and gentlemen, imitating swimming on dry land is easier than actually swimming in water. It is very easy to say what needs to be done if you are not in a position to do so. And in such a situation, of course, the opposition, especially the SDS, is also saying things that she would not have done if she had not practiced swimming on dry land and should actually swim in water. Germany, as an example of a true exit policy and Slovenia, is mistaken in their view. Not only what Dr. Luke Juri's colleague said, but something else is important. The way the crisis has taken place, the way it responds to the crisis is quite different in countries with a strong internal market and a large number of populations from countries with a weak internal market and a small population, and therefore they must be extremely export-oriented. And this is exactly what, say, Poland, Germany is in some way less affected because the internal market has nevertheless largely compensated, you could say, the collapse of external orders, the freezing of interbank processes functions and so on, or at least for some time a reduction. The internal market did this, I saw this in Poland, this is seen in Germany, extremely strong. Strong domestic demand in such cases is significantly more secure than those countries that do not have it and are significantly more dependent and vulnerable to this global crisis. That's what happened. This has, of course, been the result of the collapse of construction activities due to the completion of the road programme. All of this required Slovenia to have a different policy of response than Germany has. Different. I am sure that the classic mechanism, however it may be liked by someone on the left or on the right, would not produce these effects in Slovenia, especially not so strong and not in such relatively fast times. Another point is where I would like to make it clear that I do not agree with the proposals made regarding the limitation and reduction of expenditure in education. We can only reduce the money and resources that go to school, from primary to high and research, we cannot do that. Right during the crisis, we must not do that. It's right to change money into human capital, if you want it, not into walls, and I hope it doesn't go as far into the walls as it has gone. Here we need to keep, this is the only thing where we can actually influence that people, young people who are going to be educated, are going to be more educated, and so they can adapt more easily and more quickly to the challenges, and especially to the uncertainties that are going to happen with or without the crisis. This is the case of Finland, I was recently in this country, I saw it, they told me about it, an interparty consensus was made. If we break funds here, we may save ourselves some investment here and there, but we will disable people to live and work in the future, especially future generations. That is why I absolutely disagree. I must say that the enforcers of such a fiscal rule are, in this way, a funeral and a funeral, of course. Another thing that is. It was said that there were more employees in the state administration. It was probably meant in the wider public administration segment. Gentlemen, there are more employees, look at the numbers, in kindergartens, in schools, in nursing homes, in buildings and institutions that you've built. During your term of office, new facilities were built, new institutions where people had to be employed. We cannot leave a newly built home for the elderly, of course, without employees. We can't leave the newly built school department without employees. We can't have a new kindergarten without employees, etc. What's a kindergarten without employees? That's what you need to know. I want to tell you that there is nothing wrong with having this built, I believe, in most cases, but please refer to the fact that this government is responsible for the fact that these people are employed in these institutions. It is necessary for this government to acknowledge that, with severe suffering, it is not yet fully aware of what success has been made, that I have been able to temporarily, that I will not say, freeze or slow down the pay reform which has been pointless in non-crisis times, as I have always said, and which would have destroyed us in this mandate, and that would have destroyed any government of yours, if it had happened. That is why, of course, we need to discuss this debate, which is an eminent budgetary debate, although it is an amendment to the Budget Implementation Act, which is normal and right, clean wine needs to be poured here. This is not to tell you what the consequences of past decisions, good and bad, this government is facing today, and what the consequences of this government will somehow be faced by any subsequent government. This is the reality of political life, whether you want it or not. For pension reform, my dears, I don't know where I've heard this before, it's simply necessary to say that pension reform has a basis in demography first and foremost. It's so simple. Given the demographic situation, we will have to work three years longer for an equal or slightly higher pension. If we call it no, first we say no to the current pensioners who are going to fall. However, we have not said enough about this pension reform for those who are yet to be retired in 30 or 40 years. Until then, there will be a number of pension reforms. Now it is right that we discuss this and it seems to me that we have to pour ourselves, as a saying, pure wine and not disturbing or dreaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! I must say that it is a very interesting logic in which, on the one hand, in the same sentence, of course, it is acknowledged that proper conduct is, of course, a state-of-the-art, to give up the possibility of making an amendment and to propose some self-limiting state policy in order to create better conditions for the economy, especially for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In the same sentence, when unacceptable, you reject exactly the same proposal. Let him who can understand. What is even more interesting is that this rejection, as previously presented by one of the key representatives of the coalition, is based on the assertion that what we are proposing is not realistic at all, so as to limit spending to 43%. Is that really not possible? Ladies and gentlemen, here I have the material that says, for 2007, under the expenditure of the state sector, that they were common to Slovenia, 42.4%. This means even 0.6% less than what we are proposing here today. This has been achieved by the former government, one for which you have no fine expression. And there's something else that's very interesting. In view of the situation in which we are, as you know, in the financial market, a more realistic picture may be more appropriate to assess the effectiveness of the policy of one and the other government sets, the methodology of monetary flow valuation. And here, ladies and gentlemen, from 2005-2008 42, 2007 even 40,3 and 2008 41.4. Do I read the numbers for now? 49, for 2011 48.4, for 2012 cash flow forecast 48.6. And because, usually, when I present such documents, someone from the coalition rattles, "I, lie again," I remind you that this is a document, a report on the deficit and debt of the country, October 2010, the Ministry of Finance, that is, your own government. You can see for yourself that I have read the correct information. Therefore, if we were able to reach 42.4% of GDP spending in the previous term in one year, why not now 43? Why are you refusing this? Why do I claim that acceptance of this amendment would be necessary? This restrictive policy would be in favour of the development of an economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is the engine of any development. Because of the need to examine why money is actually being spent and, above all, how money is being spent. The perfect example of this is, unfortunately, very sad for Slovenia, the way you have embarked on the reform of pension legislation. You cyclically began to sow panic with predictions, "Yes, we will accept the limit, no one will be able to retire, we will extend the working time", and then nothing happened for months. What was the result of this reckless act of yours, which should have been coordinated in advance with the social partners, would not have led to panic. But because of the way you went about it, crowds, thousands and thousands of citizens searched for all possible holes now in the legislation and went, or voluntarily as a technological outage, in short, in all possible ways they rushed into peace. With this, you've increased the pressure on the pension fund. Worse still, those who have voluntarily given up their jobs have agreed in their service that they have gone as a technological surplus to social transfers have added to the budget. The income from their work stopped coming, but the expenditure increased. And now you are saying how vital and vital it is to maintain social transfers at the level you propose. Because of the policy you have set up yourself and which is nationally harmful, it cannot be said how. Because of the panic among future pensioners, among the employees you caused yourself, you have done irreparable damage to the country of Slovenia, so you insist that consumption must be so much higher. What does that mean in practice? That you're already spending it, because of your own indiscretion, the money of future generations. Moreover, in practice it has also proved to be what values you advocate. Someplace in this budget, money is also provided for that – and that is why this limitation should be necessary, due to this'shamastic values' arising from the budget lines envisaged. You have money in there, 150 million euros, which is huge, for you to change the vignette system and go to the tolling satellite system. What in practice will be the result of wanting to allow someone to draw a commission, perhaps a colleague or acquaintance, since this is clearly clear in advance what will happen in practice. And the money is huge, 150 million euros is a lot of money right now, either you admit it or you don't. And why, what will be the effect? To re-roll the columns along the side roads, through the regionalities that were not regulated at that time, and to make traffic security dramatically worse again. Unfortunately, it must be made very clear: what the Ministry of the Interior is now acting on is that in the last year there have been even fewer deaths, significantly fewer injuries on the roads, mainly due to the introduction of vignettes because traffic has leaked, traffic has focused on motorways from local and regional roads and we have had a European comparable transport situation in Slovenia – traffic has run. Now you will cause a large part of this traffic to turn back and it will make security worse for the road users and for everyone who lives on these roads. There will be more dead, more wounded. And also because you are looking at this from a cost-effective point of view, although for me the safety and life of man are the highest values, you will also increase the resources needed for health care because there will be more injuries, more injuries, more life tragedies that will have to be taken care of in the context of health care. And there's going to be an increase in consumption. And so again you can see how because of the wrong values, because of the wrong policy you cause irreparable damage to Slovenia. This amendment would therefore be crucial. To introduce a self-limiting policy. To find a reserve to stop spending money in a described way that is not a couple. For example, a common excuse when it comes to guilt, yes, if that is what the European Union requires, and it is forgotten that in the case of neighbouring Austria, we can prove what European behaviour is as well. It said they're instituting vignettes in a couple of years. Do you know how many years Austria has been in the vineyards and how many years it intends to retain them - because it is concerned about the safety of citizens and citizens, because it also burdens those who are in transit because it is aware of the consequences of such behaviour, from ecology to development policy, to all other security and other aspects for the level and quality of life of citizens and citizens. And he's acting smart. For this reason, the adoption of this amendment is in the development interest of the State of Slovenia and in the interest of improving the quality of life of all citizens and citizens. And remember, it is also in the interest of the quality of life of the next generation, which will otherwise pay off your reckless spending for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! I have a feeling that we're supposed to be working with meteors in the National Assembly. Some people come into this hall, they light up and shut down. In all of this, they are also moralizing the presence, the length of the debate and more. That's because I regret that there is now one of these meteors in the hall so that you can answer him everything that he spent as a lie yesterday and today he repeated. That's why I decided to discuss it. Now, if we do not apostrophe the state of the spirit in this country often, then we would like to find those points where we have a national consensus. I was convinced that we were reaching a national consensus on the importance and role of education and education for our society. On the scale of values, on the scale of trust in school, the school is certainly high. As I understood the functioning of previous governments, investing in education was one of the priorities that has never been questioned to say so. We just saw some things differently. Perhaps someone among you remembers what a wave of resentment was raised when the previous government, with its previous minister of education, wanted to stop some branch schools, with the same reason or determination as we have heard today that the OECD warns us about how much we spend on education and education. No, in our situation, the importance of branch schools and the care of a high-quality public school is a national consensus. That's how I understand the messages we're getting. A number of research on equity in education and education also shows that only quality public education services can replace social deficits in those who, due to living in socially less conducive environments, cannot make progress and achieve such learning outcomes that are comparable and that would allow for an equal integration into life at different times of life. That is why we have always advocated the social democrats and, if you go to see the documents, we have also written in the documents that knowledge and education are a priority for the Social Democrats. Therefore, just building on data, which is not even accurate, cannot affect what the opposition Members now want to do with their amendment when we talk about certain financial movements and the ratios between expenditure and revenue in the budget, in order to accept their thesis that investing in education and education is an irrational use of public resources. And this hiatus between the real sector or between the economy and the public sector is constantly trying to deepen, and even the economists at the strike found that the poor functioning of the public service for society is devastating. And now for the numbers. The share of gross domestic product for education and education, at least from child care to the end of secondary school, has fallen as a percentage since 2006 – in terms of implementation 3,51, realization 2007 – 3,23, realization 2008 – 3,22. In the time of fat cows, our realization and participation in education fell. Absolute numbers are another story. Now let's see what's happening in 2009 – 3.63%. The balance for 2010 – 3.58% and I regret to find that the share of gross domestic product for this part of education is falling again to 3.34 in the 2011 budget and in the 2012 proposal. I hope the 2012 balance shows a more optimistic figure than 3.18. Of course, it would be imprecise if I did not say that the share of gross social product for education in a variety, if not at all, also depends on wage movements in education and education. Whoever prepared and accepted the pay reform, I don't think it's necessary to lose words. However, the fall is at the expense of reducing investment in this area. What I think needs to be said, see, we are following the objectives of ensuring that the highest possible proportion is included in pre-school education. 92% of the five-year-olds and 87% of the four-year-olds are included. Parents who have not received a place in public education are also likely to be dissatisfied with this high percentage because their children cannot be included in kindergartens. The talk was about nine students per teacher. That's not true. For years, there have been 12 little things, dozens more or fewer students per teacher. It's on average. In some educational groups, there are also 17.2 students per teacher and other things to say. In kindergarten there are 8.2 children per teacher or educator. Which is normal because standards and norms are applicable. For all those parents who have children involved in education, it is essential not to lower the quality of services. But it was our joint decision to advocate for as much inclusion as possible and for as much quality as possible. What else would it be like to say about higher education? It's a good thing the share goes up there. However, I think the national consensus is that we have free education provided at least until the pre-graduate study. Unfortunately, not for the postgraduate and everything that goes ahead. Now is the last lie that has been told at least three or four times in the last two days. I regret that Members and Members do not distinguish between co-management and self-government. Co-operation is an important requirement of European space, including corporate governance, including the European Social Charter and elsewhere. That's why I don't understand those who are "scandalising" at co-management of employees. The results achieved where the share of co-management is ensured are significantly better. But what was said was how the saints were made up. The schools are composed of 5 representatives, 3 founders and 3 parents employed in the 11-member Council. For secondary schools and homes, it must also be said that the world is bigger there, because students also have a right to 2. However, how the funds invested in education and results affect, this is a topic on which even the profession does not find a unanimous answer. For example, Norway, which invests most in education in the European space, has achieved very poor results in international research on student knowledge. Finland, on the other hand, which invests heavily, achieves excellent results. Hence, the answers are far more complex than some want to show. I also reject any debate that would go in this direction that the public sector is a waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u62	Since it has been said to be inaccurate, allow me to read them very carefully. State sector expenditure in 2007 42.4%, expenditure of the state sector in 2009, the first full year when the new government had power, 49.0%. This is the report on the deficit and debt of the country, October 2010, by the Ministry of Finance. And let me add – according to the cash flow principle, 2006 42.5%, 2007 only 40.3%, 2008 41.4% [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Time's up. Mrs. Pecanova, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I think that my predecessor should be stopped because he replicated something that was not even said in Mrs Majde Potata's previous debate. Majda Potrat spoke of completely different things than now in the replica of Mr Grims. And Mr Grimes could learn to follow the Rules of Procedure once before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u65	Mrs. Breda Pecan, do you have any suggestions? Otherwise, thanks for the heads-up. You've all been talking today about a subject far broader than the law itself, about many issues. Mr Grimes, I will not give you my word because you will not propose anything procedural. Mr Guido Kres asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have proposed amendments, all in the direction of savings, because we argue that if costs are reduced to some administrative units and so on, this is not such a major disaster for that part, but, as has already been said, the public sector is not a waste. I agree, it's not a waste, but it can save. I argue that at a time when the Government is renting credits to prevent a social crisis or a better worded mitigation of the social crisis, I supported this because if there is no reserve, there is no other way to do it, but it is also necessary to be open and we have had an open path to the credit market, which is also good that we have mitigated this social crisis at that time. All the time, I would point out that we should hire credits to trigger domestic investments and that these funds should be channelled to citizens and citizens not through social transfers. Of course, we also have to ask ourselves: what to invest in, what to credit for, and what investments to take. I argue that those whom the domestic economy can carry out, the adjusted investment in the structure of the domestic economy, not in tolling, I think this can wait a little longer. And those large millions in these small areas would mean a lot, much less calculating how many schools could be built in Slovenia as well. They are necessary, and there are few calls for this in the budget. It's not enough money from European calls, it's just the only fresh money that could come and it's not. Our economy is exporting, something is already improving in the automotive industry, and let's ask ourselves what we did years ago when we sold Lek. And that would be interesting to calculate once, and we've done a lot of damage to ourselves. Have we done enough to improve our food supply? There are also reserves for jobs in here, and we also know what the structure, educational structure of Slovenian citizens and citizens is. These are the jobs that could also employ people with lower education. We passed the Small Work Act yesterday. I claim that he was set well, but he did not, in my opinion, achieve the goal he should have. Have we talked about flexible labour legislation? The Slovenian economy is uncompetitive. Slovenia is uncompetitive for foreign investments. Even if we were to forget this, we would have come to a qualitative conclusion, and this competitiveness would have been better. I think there's too much union pressure, all too much false solidarity. We should strive to value jobs because this would make it easier for entrepreneurs to decide on employment. So we can finally stop work for a while. The job is when a company gets in trouble, it's supposed to forgive a worker without any major complications, not sink both workers and entrepreneurs. At least the entrepreneur should stay alive and create new jobs. At the same time, a strong social state that would allow access to the social network for this transitional period without great red tape. When we work for a certain time, young people simply don't get credit. We'd take a 30-year loan if we had a job. And even if we lost it in the middle, we were to agree at the time and pay only interest, not principal and so on. There are many mechanisms, but they just need to be explored in what way this matter can be done well. When I spoke to one of the entrepreneurs, I asked him to tell me how Poland was able to achieve even 1% GDP growth at that time. With us in Slovenia, however, such a fall when estimates were that we would be on the same track as Poland. What did he say to me? The Polish banks did not invest in tycoons, the Polish banks did not invest in markets such as NLB in the former Yugoslav markets, and today all of this will have to be paid. All in that way, those of you who served JLA know well if we did any stupid things, they said, "Don't worry, the people will pay for it." I'm guessing we're not in this situation right now. With us in Slovenia, this will be paid by most people, the one I can say is poor. The rich have already taken the money out, the others, the ones, but they have what they have at home. There's something else I can take from them, not the big ones. I'd like to warn you about that. When we talked about debarcation in this Chamber, when we talked about new tax systems or the flat-rate integration of small and micro-enterprises, there are also reserves in here. I tell you, if we went to the flat rate, the country would often cash in, only a few bookkeeping services would have lower incomes, but still above the Slovenian average. And we could talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I see a desire to discuss it. Whoever wants to do this, please sign up for a debate. Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The debate will be brief, in particular in the desire not to end this debate in such a crimson and dark manner as colleague Grims showed, because there was only so much to do to turn off the light and go home. In the two cases that he himself has pointed out that there is no joy in this Slovenia, there is no enthusiasm and it is probably necessary to ask, even with such an event that Mr Grims has performed today, whether this has not been encouraged. Showing the problem of vignettes in the way we've heard that 150 million will be tolled, that means lifting the vignettes, if you don't get guilty, there will be more accidents if there are more accidents, there will be more dead, more wounded, more health costs. Where's he going? Where it leads such an unrealistic and, above all, a tendency to present the facts of this House. Guilts are one of the things that were good at one thing, and the other is extremely guilty. Those who drive to Ljubljana every day pay as much as those who, unfortunately, have to pay once a year and buy wine to go to Ljubljana for medical examination. This is one of the great injustices that has been brought under the previous government. The second one that has been discussed before may be misunderstood. The free kindergarten is unfair to those who have money and should pay for kindergarten, it is good because the involvement of children in preschool education is welcome and is right, but why give everyone free kindergarten, including those from which it would be appropriate for the country to receive reimbursement of these costs, which are critical today, how they have increased employment in kindergartens and also costs. These are two such eccentric cases that are now being used in these debates, in these times of crisis, as an example of how this government behaves poorly and the previous one has acted well. This is like all the comparisons that have been made in these discussions. It is impossible to compare the previous mandate with the current one, the conditions of operation, the state, the environment, the global economy with the current one. These comparisons are therefore so corrupt because they are being exploited. It is right that part of the opposition criticises the government, attacks it, but then it is necessary to have at least a little correctness and some good intention to get us out of this crisis together. Therefore, if from this Parliament and in the search for solutions, how from the crisis, Parliament has shown, the coalition and the opposition, some greater cooperation, there would probably be a little more optimism in people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I no longer see the desire for a debate and I conclude it. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which will be at 12.40 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the 22nd meeting. We will continue to vote on the budget package at 12.40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u70	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we go to the voting process, I would like to inform you that, in the framework of the budget package of acts, we will first vote on the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decree on the annual management plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the public administration and for the judicial authorities for 2011 and then on the proposal for a decree in the country's annual management plan for individual assets of more than EUR 300,000 for the public administration and judicial authorities for 2012. We will then vote on the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and on the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, to which the Assembly will vote on the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration and vote on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Regulation on an annual plan for the management of the country’s fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per annum for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2011 As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. Mr. Gorenak, would you like a word? Explanation of voice. On behalf of the MP? So I'm asking, does anyone on behalf of the parliamentary group, besides Gorenak, want to explain their vote? Let me sign up, please. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'll be right behind both decisions at the same time, because I think it makes sense because the case is connected. See, the state has been planning to sell its assets for some time now, and we are deciding in the National Assembly on those matters worth over 300,000 euros. A man is a little confused when he reads these numbers; we sell a parcel of this and that and an object on the plot of this and that, that it's kind of a coded thing for people who don't find it. In particular, this is the situation for these two decrees. The state has decided to sell six castles with all plots worth EUR 9.6 million. Among them are the Borl Castle and many other castles, which are also a kind of cultural and artistic heritage. The problem is that prices are set extremely low. I'm aware, let's say you take only the Ptuj Tournament, the castle, a million 200 thousand euros, with 25 hectares of land. If you only share this price with square meters, you will get 4.7 euros per square meter and the castle is included in the price or donated. Now, in the circumstances that we are, in fact, when people who would have money are in a very narrow circle, among so-called rich people. They can take advantage of the situation and buy it. But it's not good for the country. It's probably good for the country to sell this at a time when it would reach significantly higher prices. In my own environment, for example, there are two such castles that were sold 20 years ago to owners from Serbia, and today the municipalities, aware of the problems with these properties from their own resources, maintain at least the roof and strive to get these castles back. Something similar can happen with these, so our skepticism, which is similar, at least after the opening presentation, is the SD's skepticism. By hoping for a good sale, we do not believe in a good sale, so our vote against both of these decisions will be a good one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mr. Mirko Brulc, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u73	Good-bye! As has already been said today, I see here a building sold in Brannik under number 113. If this material were also accompanied by a photograph of this castle, the Richember Castle, the most beautiful stone fortress in Slovenia, which has the status of cultural monument of national importance, which was once taken from the local community and is now about. 2 million 100,000 euros to be sold, I mean I can't agree with that at all. However, I accept the Minister's explanation that it is, but now I do not know why it is written in a document in such a manner that we will not sell it, but for which there is always a great danger, because for this price some wealthy Italian can buy it and then we will have it in there, I don't know what. However, we have a programme, we have presented it several times at the Ministry of Culture, we have a programme that does not burden the state budget, and, finally, the local community can put this castle in such a state that it will not be in danger for visitors. Although I will support this decree, I will take the Minister's word for it, because if it goes on sale, then of course we will demand that this building return to the local community, as it was taken away from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice on their behalf? Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulco's colleague would like to join the debate. There is something similar in the White Landscape with Gradac Castle. History is kind of repeating itself, and there was a similar process in connection with this castle. For all those living in the White Land, and especially for those living in the town of Gradac, it would not matter if something similar happened to that castle, as Brulc mentioned in his case. Therefore, there might also be a need for reflection in this direction, so that we will not then be the people living in our areas, perhaps ever become some kind of species, I would say, perhaps the victims of those who will decide to devote this small amount of money, in some ways not so large, although it is a million and a half euros, to the Gradac Castle. People and residents in this area will not feel well with any investors' wishes and projects. Therefore, we are concerned about this fact, perhaps especially that these decisions have somehow matured quickly. However, we will support, and also ourselves, the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, because we want good development and action, but we expect here, and we will also take the floor of the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Culture, so that it will be as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 20.b. agenda item, which is to continue the cut-off of the agenda of the Proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for public administration authorities and judicial authorities for 2012. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. In your own name, Mr. Petan? On behalf of the MP? Mr Gorenak said earlier that he would speak on behalf of the Member of Parliament in both decisions. I can do it in person. I can do it on your behalf. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? No, then I'm opening time for a personal application. Anyone who can explain their voice, please come in. Mr. Willy Trophynik – no, he's wrong. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! When I look at what it's going to sell, what it means, say, the Borl Castle has 59,000 square metres of land and for 2 million 300 thousand euros, and the Ptuj Tournament is a quarter of a square mile, it's going to cost a million 200 thousand euros. That means the square meter is not even the euro. Not even the euro is a square meter. You don't have to talk about the castle at all because the castle is irrelevant. You can imagine that 254,000 square meters of land would be converted into a building plot. That would be billions of euros, and you'd buy it for a million 200 thousand euros. And no one's gonna convince me that there's no logic behind here. And we're moving on. You will probably remember that Mr Jankovic Fužine bought or sold for EUR 5 million. Five million euros! How much land was there?Oh, my God! "Nil Coma Joseph" or a few square meters. Here's a quarter of a square mile for a million 200 grand. You're making a fool of yourself! Someone's making a fool of you! I'm not gonna say you guys are on the other side, but I'm surprised you guys support it. We got a proposal from the government, the ministry, and someone said, "Yes, I don't agree with that, but I will hold the Minister's word." You know what it's like to be taken for granted. What, what, what's a catchy thing?Oh, my God! We demand something more concrete so that it can be taken. Something more specific, not just for the word. And that's why we can't support it, because we just see that if you're selling a quarter of a square mile for a million 200 thousand euros, there's a machination in the back. That's not gonna convince us, and I'm just wondering how you can convince those people out there to see someone make construction plots out of it and make billions of dollars, how can you convince them? You can't do us. And that's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Last year, when I was a member of the Internal Policy Committee, I drew attention to some of the things that appeared in this country's annual sales plan. You know that at the time we preserved some of the facilities, hospitals in Ljubljana and other things that the state or some group in ministries decided would be wise to sell. I don't think it's in place to sell or it's even very sad that we're selling national wealth in order to patch up the budget on the other side. Since this government is unable to manage and is running out of money, it decides to sell what we may buy back in a while and wonder why some foreign owners or modern-day tycoons have come to the facilities that the state itself considers to be objects of the heritage of the Republic of Slovenia. The town of Fužine was mentioned. The smart policy of both ministries or, in particular, the Ministry of Culture, which should protect this, does not mean that the working group for the evaluation of cultural monuments and the identification of strategic buildings that remain the property of the Republic of Slovenia essentially allows us to sell several castles. Instead of protecting them by having such a name to protect their inheritance, they would expect them not to decide to sell. It is true that it costs a lot to maintain such buildings and to rebuild them, but it is true that on all the avenues that we show in Europe and the world, we display either churches or castles. Just as other countries do. That is why the state should act not only as a good master, but primarily as the first guardian of national wealth. I will vote against selling these things and I would expect some smart agreement between municipalities and the Ministry of Culture, which could be installed in these facilities, just like it did with the fusion castle, where the architectural museum and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. He might have pointed out his own thinking when we were talking about the castles of Borl and Trunište. The fact is, these two castles are collapsing and there is no content in these castles right now. Sometimes we have some apartments, and this will have to be solved in some way, so for the benefit of those who live there. Most importantly, if we look at logic, see if we are really interested in selling these cultural monuments, national cultural monuments, because in some way, if we look at it as part of a good master, we might consider giving it in some long-term lease, writing the conditions under which someone can rent it, rearrange it, arrange the castle to have some content happening there. However, if we really decide to sell what is on this table today, I would only ask the Ministry that it is imperative that it cooperate with the local community in this sale, whatever it may be, and, of course, under some basic conditions, also agree within the contract, what must the buyers of such a castle fulfil in order to meet their contractual obligations. Some protection must be that cultural monuments will not come into the hands of someone for quite a small amount of money, while we will not have any assurance that any content will occur in these castles, that these castles will be renewed. Because the fact is, if we already have such a sales program on the table, then we also need to know or be sure that something is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I also see an interest in further explanations of vote, so I am opening the time for an application to explain my voice in a personal name. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u83	I cannot support this because, as the Government has undertaken to sell off some important objects of Slovenian cultural heritage, it does not provide any guarantee for the continuation of this precious Slovenian cultural heritage, because these facilities are irreplaceable. If anything happens – and we know that the owner is the master and the control over how he manages it, then he is difficult – if anything is wrong with them, then Slovenia is a lasting part of what he cannot replace with anything. The issue of Slovenian cultural heritage is important and should, in my firm opinion, be the subject of a national consensus. Why it's done this way, without some security guards, with the apparently undervalued value of real estate, as it is done, I don't know. Is there an agreement in the background, perhaps already a personal interest? Such cases are also known in history, for example, what kind of purchases of agricultural land have been made when the status of a farmer has been suspended as a condition for 14 days, and several Members of Parliament have acquired those lands three times back. Is it possible that some new elite is buying these castles now? There is certainly a need to be careful here. It should take time to assess this realistically, in terms of the preservation of Slovenian cultural heritage as values. Because the main concern is the fact that there are relatively large land complexes and that the price, if converted to a square metre of land, is only a few euros. I live in an area where the price of a square meter of land is 250, 300 euros. And buying this size of walled land, land that could be subject to further manipulation, is in the style of that movie, "and Dad would do it, son" [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. I also agree with those debaters who have stressed that Slovenian cultural heritage should not be sold. With regard to what some Members have stressed that the Minister will be held to the floor, that is, as we know, it has no legal effect on the word, while the decree itself is a legal act and it is necessary to regulate matters in a legal manner, which means, of course, that this decision cannot be supported. We know that there have already been some sales, attempts to sell, that three hospitals, including a pediatric hospital, have been removed from the decree allowing these hospitals to be sold. We also know that the building, an eminent building, is a monumentally protected building along with Prešeren's monument in Ljubljana before it passes into the hands of Mabra, which has a collector in Liechtenstein. In short, if these buildings, these lands, these castles in the decree, then it's a real danger of reselling. And I hope that the Ministry and Government will be so wise that these buildings and these lands, that is, those castles, will be removed from the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I must kindly remind you that now is not the time to discuss. The time for discussion was at the time of the decision, unfortunately there was no time. Now is the time to explain to the vote why you will vote as you intend to vote. At least this sentence, as it will be voted on, I have not heard from these debates and explanations. Voice explanation, Branko Marinič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. I will, of course, vote against the sale, against such a way of selling. Above all, I will focus on selling two cultural monuments with their respective lands. It's the Borl Castle and the Turnište Castle, both with the land. You know, it's hard to imagine if you don't know what complexes this is in nature. And it's not just a building that stands on one of the parts of the land that's listed in the building. Here it has to be distinguished that on the one hand it is of greater interest to buy land than the cultural monument itself, the castle. Here is the basic dilemma to be raised. It is already true, and I agree with this, that the state is obliged to take care of and resolve the decline of cultural monuments, such as the Borl Castle. Of course, in this case, it is quite a few of the lands that stick to this Borl castle. The sale of these lands is the basis on which the Government must clarify certain things. Once again, this is not just a building of a cultural monument called the castle, but it is a lack of clarity and undervalue or perhaps something agreed in advance about how this land will be sold and to whom this land will be sold. The content of such proposals cannot, of course, be supported in such content, especially because it has already been dealt with by the Government. 9. Only with Monday's expansion of the agenda have we put this on the agenda and here are things, forgive me, smell and I cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. I will under no circumstances support this decree, and the only solution is not to be supported in the coalition. For this is not a matter of sale, it is a sale or a gift of cultural monuments above all the land. Surely there are people already known in the background who will thus gain access to a number of lands, which will then, of course, be resold and resold as tycoons. If such cultural monuments, castles, leases, or in the past have failed, I know that there have been several attempts to get people with money to these castles, which, of course, would have been remodeled, which would still be owned by the state, a cultural monument, could have had a number of institutions inside, from schools, museums, and there was no such hearing. Why now go on sale or giving it away? If it is the wish of the State to give these properties "heavens" to the Ministry, to reflect on, donate or give land and these cultural monuments to local communities, municipalities, under a clause that in no case or under very strict conditions can these lands or cultural monuments be sold. For the local community is the one who knows, the congregations are the ones who know what can be done most out of these places or out of these lands. That would be the right, fair, corrective way. Because if we all sum up how much the country will get out of this, all of it is one small thing in the state budget, but for every local community it would probably be one big contribution so that we can develop faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I see there's still an interest in voice-explanation. Please, for your application. I would like to warn you that the government can no longer answer. The Secretary of State would like to do so very much, but I must say that this is no longer possible and I ask that the Government is not directly challenged because it cannot respond. Voice explanation, Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you. I'll hold back, but I wanted to say something else. How would it be accepted here is the following hypothetical fact that one politician in Furlania - the Julian landscape rises up and says in the country world, "that property will be bought by one Slovenian and who knows what he will do there". I guess the papers would have called about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it myself, because I can't support a sale that has all the characteristics of a sale or a gift. We don't give or sell some third-rate items, but something that has national significance and all those who once spoke about national interest and stuck to it with all four of them, I wonder how they're going to comment. For history is bound upon these castles, and history cannot be sold. Everyone can immediately see that, in fact, the castle is just the point of debate and sale, what is actually being sold or offered is large parcels. No one knows what will happen to them, or according to the good logic of the Taiwanese and the enemy, and I don't know what kind of acquisitions, but then everything around the castle will happen that is not supposed to happen because of the protection of cultural heritage, that is to say, to sell history, to sell something that was bound by the Slovenian nation that lived there for centuries. This means that the country must be really in a lot of trouble to give a full budget for the change, while the big shovels throw money out the window. Let's just say with the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank in relation to Balkan loans, perhaps even intentional, by investing in this area, the money went somewhere else. As has already been said, I will explicitly oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u95	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this decision myself. The reason is similar, it lies in the restoration of our castles. This year, the Secretary of State and I had an opportunity in the environment from which I come to be at the opening of the renewed cultural monuments, and plans for the future were allowed and the Ministry's participation was also allowed. In this decision, however, I will object mainly because I know in detail about the Leskovec Castle, the Šrajberski Tour, for which a government decision has also been adopted between the country and the municipality, within which the castle is to be settled. It was also envisaged that funds from the European Fund could be used for which the State can directly determine the renovation of this castle. Regrettably, I cannot agree that after we have evicted the inhabitants of a castle from a castle, even after cleaning the castle, we have made a conservative inspection of this castle with State resources, but now we are going to sell the castle, despite having a certain content for this castle, and that the congregation has also taken responsibility for filling these contents. I think that we have also agreed, as part of the use of European funds, that 10 million from cultural monuments are said to be from the rebuilding of castles, to take and put into other areas, to make a mistake from this. Money, I think we could arrange at least two castles that are on this list, because I'm afraid that at a time when, I think, we were trying to find an investor with different topics. And believe me, it's not easy to get an investor for some old castle, because everyone prefers something on a new building. However, I am afraid that at this time of economic crisis, that now that we have given for two for a sales programme, these castles will only fail these two years and beyond, because I am afraid that these buyers will not. At least two, three castles could be restored from European money and also filled with content and, in at least one case, the country would prove to be a better guardian of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. As has been shown so far, the government or the state has always been an extremely poor custodian for our cultural monuments. If we just look at not talking about these castles that are written in this list, let's look at the castle of Hmeljnik. They fixed the walls a little bit, they fixed some roof, everything else goes down. That's why I'm going to support this proposal to sell these castles. This is the only way to keep the castles, but not to have ruins within ten years, as long as they are not ruins today. But it is true that the government here should prescribe a control mechanism. That someone wouldn't just buy, exploit the land around the castle, and leave the castle in ruins, just like it was. Here, it is important to take that main approach and to prevent slumming and, above all, speculation. That's why I think the government should set conditions for anyone who buys a particular castle. How the castle must arrange, how it must be restored, how it must be repaired, what materials it must use, and what it will do with the surroundings of the castle. So he won't be where the castle park used to be, chopping up old trees and making peach groves or something. That's what I'm afraid of. But otherwise the idea is correct and must be carried away, but with a strong state control mechanism. But I'm afraid the Ministry of Culture can't and can't do this. But it can also be fixed here. After all, in a year and a half of this government will be gone, and those of us who will then rule will be able to make things right and to make them right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I'll back this up. All kinds of stuffing, who's in the background here, and that they're all different tycoons, of course, they don't convince me. The Ministry listed nine possible sales monuments, which does not mean that all 9 should be sold, but there is a possibility. Things are still open, can be leased or transferred to a public institution or local community. But what's the most important thing here? Most importantly, this control mechanism is already in place. It is incorporated into the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, in the fourth paragraph of Article 6, which nicely states that sales are only possible if they improve conservation and public accessibility and ensure such use that is consistent with the social significance of the monument. So, no fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u101	We in this country would like everything, good pensions, good wages, a lot of housing for young people, state banks and their recapitalisation, and obviously everything that was ever built in this country in its own possession. I think, however, that interest must be pursued here after the cultural heritage is well preserved and will be in excellent condition and also in a wider social and social function. History doesn't go to sell, some say. History with the possible sale of the work of this cultural heritage is not only that we do not sell, but we also change it not. However, I think we are providing conditions for an optimal future. Hate to take over the castles. No one's taking these castles out of this country. They will still be an integral part of Slovenia's landscape. However, I think that in many cases Slovenia can be grateful that, due to historical circumstances, it is rich in this cultural heritage, that many of them are collapsing, and it is therefore reasonable that people who have the ambition to develop this cultural heritage in a broader function also get the opportunity to invest in the rebuilding of these castles and re-establish these castles with the environment in which they have stood for centuries. I see no reason to support this decision alone, especially since we have a number of other needs in our time, where resources need to be earmarked to preserve the country's social stability and economic recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Explanation of Joža Tanko's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. A bad government is not expected to take good action. What is the attitude of the Minister of Culture towards cultural heritage, we also know from the attitude towards Plečnik, when there was a lot of giving and allowing for a lot of intervention in Plečnik's heritage. Now that has not collapsed, burned down and destroyed castles during the war and after the war, it will now join the sale and sale. And unfortunately, I find that for these nine castles that were before sale, the government predicted as much as one amortized Falcon, that is, the value of one amortized Falcon. And I also point out that the Government paid EUR 5 million for a castle of Fužine, which almost no one knew until it was transferred to its own Republic of Slovenia, half as much as now sells 9 castles, some of which are highly eminent and regulated and with very large surfaces. In short, the government has absolutely no proper relationship to the preservation of cultural heritage. These facilities could be donated, transferred to local communities, where concessionaries could be obtained to manage these castles, but these procedures were not used by the Government. And it is obvious that there are buyers ready for these castles, it is likely that some silent societies or silent associates of silent societies, who will be able to collect these castles with money that has been poured from public work to these hidden accounts at home or abroad, and we will get new modern, not Barons, but gentlemen, civil gentlemen. They'll probably be transferred later on to hunting rights in these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u104	And how will you vote? Against it, I believe. Thank you. Voice explanation, mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I must say, I will support this motion. We live in times when real estate is a burden, but the decaying old property is an even greater burden. I did a back-up analysis, and I was sure that before this government's mandate, all the Slovenian castles had been rebuilt, edited, but the statistics of those who are reading it today are a clarinet: not just castles, not even a muddy island, they wouldn't sell it, but they would just mess it up. This is the kind of thing that's problematic. I must say that I live in a congregation where we have Radetzky's castle, which we cannot give to them again and we do not want to, but we would be happy to have a partner who would invest his resources and rebuild it; the renovation can only take place in accordance with the guidelines of the monumental protection, and all the land interventions in the city's call only with permission and harmonisation of spatial plans. Thus, the right path is certainly the one mentioned before me by Mr Victory Jelinčič; on Snow White, part of the story was made, it is not essential who owns it, it is essential for what purpose the castle is intended for and if it lives. I'm sure we can save at least one of these. But before that, I heard a remarkable comparison that there was a lot of Slovenia in these castles in history. I must say that many of these castles did not live, but they suffered in and out of many of them, but I agree. It is my opinion that these efforts by the government to finally do something about these cuts and that they are not the burden of taxpayers, I support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Please, Mrs. Zalokar?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u107	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for a 15-minute recess so that we can examine this issue before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u108	Yes, I find that the explanations have been completed and I assign a 15-minute recess. We'll pick it up at 1:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u109	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to interrupt the 20.b point. We're in a vote. The leader of the Zares Cveta Zalokar Orazem Group proposed a break. Would you like a word, Flower Zalokar Orazem? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda – the draft 2011 budget for the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 35. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Draft amending budget. They are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. With regard to the amendments of the SLS Group of Members and SD, Zares and LDS groups, I would like to point out that they relate to the change in the level of resources in individual sub-programmes within different users, and therefore the two amendments are voted on within the framework of the first-mentioned user. In the amendment of the SLS Group, this is a user of 1212 – the State Council, and in the amendment of the SD groups sent by the SD groups, and, indeed, the LDS is a user of 1911 – Ministry of Defence. We are moving to budget user 1212 – State Council and other users. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to budget user 1212 – State Council and other users. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Yesterday we tried, of course, to explain long and wide why this amendment. So the amendment is intended for those direct budgetary users who, according to our assessment of this financial and economic crisis, have nothing that is not those who should add anything to the mitigation of this financial economic crisis. We believe that the belt should be tightened with all these budgetary users. That is why we have proposed through this amendment that the consumption of all these budgetary users should return to the starting year 2008, the year of so-called fat cows, and that we should reduce that consumption by 5 %. We have chosen linear reduction, of course, because it usually works in the economy and doesn't ask a lot of questions. As was done yesterday for pensions, where it has long been frozen, whether the individual has a pension of 200 euros, 300 euros, or more than 1,000 euros. Similarly, we propose here to freeze, after a long time, the consumption of all those budgetary users who are not dealing with a crisis that has nothing to do with this crisis. Yesterday I cited the details and I suggest, given that there are a little less than 200 million in the game. I am aware that this is not enough for a billion-and-a-half deficit, but this can be a strong signal to all employees in public administration, that the joke is over and that savings must be taken seriously. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 52. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. They go to the budget user 1911 – Ministry of Defence and other users, we decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to the budget user 1911 – Ministry of Defence and other users. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 9. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1213 – State Election Commission, activity of political institutions. We decide on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, budget user 1213 – State Election Commission. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 10. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1516 – Office for Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme Support for NGOs and civil society. We decide on the first amendment of the Commission for National Communities to the budgetary user 1516 – Office for Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme Support for NGOs and civil society. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 11. Against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to the budgetary user 1516 – Office for Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme of NGOs and civil society. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 57 votes in favour. Against four. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We decide on the first amendment, namely the amendment of the DeSUS Group to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 25 votes in favour. Against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment, namely the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to the budgetary user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 66 votes in favour. Against the 9th. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 46 votes in favour. Against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that a specific part of the draft amending budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 48 votes in favour. Against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the proposal for amending the budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the proposal for amending the budget on revenue and expenditure is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The amendments adopted require a harmonisation amendment and can be prepared in a relatively short time. I think we should take about half an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We note that there is a need for a harmonisation amendment, so I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m., noting that there will be a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at 2.30 p.m. in the large lounge. So, we continue the meeting at 3 p.m., at 2.30 p.m., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u114	Colleagues and colleagues, we're still waiting for you to get a report or a harmonisation amendment. This will take a few moments. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm adjourning the session for another five minutes to split up the harmonisation amendment. So we'll start at 3:07. Thank you very much. The board members have an amendment and the others don't. When he gets to the table, we can get started.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u115	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We continue the 17th item of the agenda, the consideration and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget for 2011. Would you like a word from the government? Please, Mrs. Matthew Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, due to the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the Draft Amendment to the 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also necessary to harmonise the General Part of the Budget and the Plan of Programme Development. The proposal for these harmonisations is included in Annex 1 or in Annex 2 of the proposed harmonisation amendment and we propose that the National Assembly approve the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? Mr. Chappich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 31st urgent meeting today, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered, as its parent working body, the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Draft Amendment to the 2011 Budget of the Republic of Slovenia and also supported it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Every five minutes, please. First of all, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u120	See, when we receive this harmonisation amendment, we see how easily the Government proposes to reduce some of the expenditures that were previously untouchable and were actually defended – but now there is no problem. For example, the payment of domestic interest for 19 million, for almost 20 million euros, is deleted. So we will probably have to pay interest or make up for what our obligations are. This is to delete or reduce the payment of interest on securities issued on the domestic market. I can't imagine how 20 million can be saved in this field, and I'm asking the secretary of state here how that's possible. Have you previously planned wrong, or are you now subjugating this item? And not for a thousand, 2,000, 10,000, 100,000 euros, but for 20 million euros! I'm not going to go into who to give, but here you actually took on one relatively fixed item, here is no "third dead", here is no discretion, return or no return, these are obligations from already created transactions: paying interest on issued securities on the domestic market. There's probably something else about this harmonisation amendment. For example, one such is, interestingly, the payment of funds to the European Union budget for gross national income, including minus three million. What are we gonna have lower gross or what? Please give me an explanation of how the source of money for this political "deal" you have made and which will obviously appease some coalition Members and parties. Your Honor, this is further proof — this harmonisation amendment — that you are very far from some serious real planning of public finances and that you will probably find this 19 million in some way with some Gaspari trick for these interest. Remember that trick of this gentleman when he was a finance minister, when he made 13 months of income, and 12 months of expenditure, and thus reduced the deficit. It's just his innovation. And apparently there is another similar innovation. Well, of course we can't support such tricks. We're gonna pay for it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Does any of the representatives or representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm concluding this debate. This situation is governed by Article 163 fourth and fifth paragraphs. The debate is not possible and the Government cannot answer, it can only present its position on the amendment, but there is no way to discuss it. I therefore conclude this presentation and move on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Since this harmonisation amendment has been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for amendments to the 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u122	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the budget changes for next year will not be supported. Moreover, we will oppose this proposal. Why? At least four reasons for that. The first reason is very important and crucial; trends in the excessive deficit of the state budget and the resulting debt are maintained. A billion €700 million is the projected deficit for the coming year, even though some revenues, even income from corporate income tax, are underperforming, even in the opinion of experts. In short, the government is continuing the trend of an excessively unbalanced budget with this budget change, which means it is spending much more than it is able to raise money or create money through this budget. We think that this is a wasteful policy, that there is too little serious intention of saving and limiting unnecessary expenditure, which is quite a few. We listed them in the debate. Secondly, this budget and this document do not address the root causes of the instability of public finances or the difference between expenditure and revenue, but only freezes certain expenditure related to public sector salaries, pensions, social transfers and the like. This just puts off the problem and doesn't solve it. Consequently, there is no restructuring of public financial expenditure. So we have a huge part of what we call running expenditure and an ever smaller part of investment. So we have more deficits and consequent debt in the coming year than we have investment expenditure and transfers together. It is said that we are already in charge of current consumption. This is mentally unacceptable for public finances, let alone for any other finances. And the fourth time. The priorities that should be focused on strengthening the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, creating new quality jobs are extremely blurry, inexpressible and not supported by concrete measures. We therefore believe that the problems of unstable public finances will continue, this government has no ambition to solve them, and our taxpayers will be in pain for years and years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 present, 64 votes against 31. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the 2011 amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia have been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Bogdan Čepić, MEP. Mr Andrej Visiak, SDS, and Mr Willi Trofenika, Mr Realis, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly on the basis of the decisions taken by the assembly, prepare the final text of the 2011 amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 76 present, 71 votes against 4. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda – consideration of the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 76 in attendance, 46 in favour, 30 in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. With regard to the amendment of the SLS Group and the DeSUS Group of Members, I would like to point out that they relate to the change in the level of resources in individual sub-programmes under different users, which is why the two amendments are voted on within the framework of the first-mentioned user. In the amendment of the SLS Group, this is a user of 1211 – the National Assembly, and in the amendment of the DeSUS Group, it is a user of 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We are moving to budget user 1211 – National Assembly and other users. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to budget user 1211 – National Assembly and other users. We're voting. There are 77 present, 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance, we are deciding on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We're voting. There are 77 in attendance, 27 in favour, 41 in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised? The proposal is consistent. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a full decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u124	Your Honor! In explanation of why the Group would vote against this proposal, it could repeat everything I said in the 2011 budget. However, I will further highlight one argument; I would highlight the argument that the Government has no ambition, even in 2012, when there is enough time before this year, to restructure public financial expenditure. In fact, it is more than obvious that our current budget expenditure is very high in the investment area so that interest in 2012 will also be more than next year. Therefore, other expenditure, which will also result from new employees in the public sector, will also be higher. So this investment expenditure is going to go down, and this is going to cause even less economic activity, as economic activity is also very much linked to the country's investment expenditure. This means that we have been spiraling into some enchanted state when economic growth is walking us also due to the structurally poor part of the budget. The government has sufficient time throughout 2011 to ensure, by amending the relevant legislation, an intervention in this fixed part of the budget, at the expense of increasing the investment part of the budget. The government of these ambitions does not show through the 2012 budget document. That's bad. This is one important reason why we cannot support this approach. The second is, in fact, empirical and stems from the practice so far, when the government is always wrong about planning for half a billion, if not more, as far as income work is concerned, I have proved this through all the rebalancies in this government's mandate, which were, as a rule, lower by half a billion in terms of revenue, as was then shown in the end, and the rebalancing has corrected it. What we will do with this budget in one year, God knows, and that document is therefore a grave, a misty outline of what will happen in 2012 and we can not even say for a plus, minus a billion about accurate assumptions. So it's a more formal acceptance of the document than anything serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the Draft Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 17. 11. 2010 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u126	We will support the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? Because he wants to do what I used to do as an argument, why we didn't support the budgets. So, he wants to introduce some stricter fiscal discipline. A very simple financial discipline to say that we can spend as much or as much as we create. That we must not waste some absolute value, no matter how much we create. Indeed, the current fiscal rule of the Government is that we can spend 10 billion euros in the financial year, irrespective of the gross domestic product created. However, with this amendment and fiscal rule, we want to slowly bring the country's expenditure to 43% of the gross domestic product created. It's a healthy rule that the government could probably use, but it doesn't want to. Why? Because it's not convenient and it's not comfortable and then there's no money to fill the entire set of interests of the current coalition. Too many people need to be satisfied to apply such a rule, and those 10 billion are obviously enough to do so. Of course, it is spent and spent, the country is indebted and, as a result, is burdened not only by future generations, but also by future budgets. For all the interest on this debt will have to be paid next year and in two years, and in three years and a few years, we will have about a billion euros to pay interest. The interest will already be paid in 2012, both domestic and foreign, with €600 million in expenditure. 600 million euros! And if we don't seriously limit public spending in this field, we will be at the level of Greece, Ireland, Portugal and I don't know which other countries. See, there is a great deal of talk about helping others, and at least, obviously, it is in the focus of this power to help the Slovenian economy to create more so that they can spend more. So I don't know why you're getting so banged up by this financial rule or fiscal rule, which could also be very convenient if you invest in the economy, have more economic growth, and, as a result, you could afford more expenditure. We therefore propose this amendment, which we will support, and if it is not adopted, we will not support the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u128	In these days, I think, on behalf of my party, the Slovenian National Party, with sufficient instruments, I have said everything I thought, and this time I will only say it once more, and for the last time, but really once again very precisely. The law on the implementation of budgets contains the content for which the Legislative and Legal Service assesses that they do not belong. The law on the implementation of budgets even spells out in Article 42 exactly how much the average may be for municipalities — with the amount, with the decimal numbers! In Article 23 of the Budget Implementation Act, several dates or payment deadlines, which we know were rakrana and death for most Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises, are still moving flexibly for 30, 45 or even 90 days. Article 8 of the Act, which deals specifically with measures to balance the budget in 2011 and 2012, to which the amendment, i.e. Article 8, was rejected, has not been adopted. The proposal submitted Article 1 to the general provisions. This amendment will not be adopted again. Most tragicly, however, this is an essential information for the conduct of this country, which was determined by the group, I can say, economic scientists, experts appointed by this government. This government has named them! Why is that? In order to determine their claim, they are rejected by their rule. Their rule, which would be referred to in Article 8. Their data on 43% of the gross social product of public financial expenditure are also included in the chapter of the Budget Balance Measures in their report – if you will read it, if you would like to read it. And how can you expect a normal person in this country who decides on legislation to accept such content?Oh, my God! We won't if this amendment isn't adopted! And in advance, the government can do whatever it wants because of me – 60% is allowed after Maastricht, go to 60! I'm the reason you're wasting this country. If it is written in the Maastricht Treaties 60, it is not necessary for us to act and approach 60. If it is adopted, we will support the ZIPs, if not, we will oppose it as we have all the other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 30. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to 2A POINT OF THE DAY LINE – REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE INSURANCE LAW, under the urgent procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the first hearing, EPA 1388-V, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the urgency procedure, EPA 1397-V, submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with it in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, would be guided by a bill submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u130	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the amendment to the Income Act refers to three substantive areas. The first area is taxation of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, the second area is taxation of pensions and the third area is taxation of non-residents of performing operators and athletes. On the basis of the amendments of the parent labour body, provisions relating to the tax treatment of employees in certain European institutions have been added to the amended draft law. In the area of taxation of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, two amendments are essential. The first relates to the tax treatment of income from agricultural policy measures, the so-called subsidies and the second to the compulsory taxation of larger farms after actual revenues. As far as agricultural policy measures are concerned, we propose that these revenues be taxed on those who actually receive them, and in principle also at the level that they actually receive. The current regime, the imputation of average amounts, is contrary to the fundamental principle of taxation, namely, taxation by economic power and the principle of the legality of taxation based on the fair taxation of the income of natural persons. We propose that the taxation of agricultural policy measures be applied under the new rules already for 2010. In view of the fact that, for the majority of the debtors or those applying agricultural policy measures, such treatment constitutes an increase in the tax base of these revenues, it is proposed that, for 2010, the tax base should be included in the tax base or 70 % of the amount actually received or the lump sum estimated on the basis of the data on land and land owned by the debtor in the application of 2010 and taking into account the data on the average amounts of subsidies as set out for 2009, namely the lower one. We are also proposing a two-year transitional period for full taxation following the actual amounts of agricultural policy measures taken. For 2011 and 2012, only 70 % of the tax subsidies actually paid are included in the tax base. In the case of taxation of larger farms, we assess, on the basis of the Government's proposal, that, as is the case with other business units, it is necessary to follow a policy by which it is justified to determine the tax base on the basis of actual business results, thereby determining their income more objectively. Therefore, we propose that for farmers whose total income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, i.e. the sum of cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates for livestock and tax revenue under agricultural policy measures, exceed EUR 5,000, lays down the obligation to begin to establish a tax base for the purposes of income on the basis of actual income and expenditure or actual income and standardised expenditure. Such households are about 6100 according to our data and we propose that this provision be applied for 2013 on the basis of the 2011 income threshold. With regard to the other two changes – for a short time. Pensions as measured under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for voluntary supplementary pension insurance and comparable pensions received from abroad shall only be taxed at 50 % of the pension. In order to align the situation of performing operators and non-resident athletes with residents, they are allowed to determine the tax base at actual costs. We propose that the National Assembly approve the proposed law in the text, as determined by the mother labour body when considering this bill, together with the proposal from the Member State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Chappich to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee is at its 29th emergency session. 11. 2010 as a parent working body considered item of the agenda Consideration of draft laws on the basis of Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely: a proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Income at first reading and a government proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income following an urgent procedure. As additional material, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on both legislative proposals, the opinion and amendments of the Government to the parliamentary bill and the request of the drafter of the law to have a general discussion on their proposal for a law. In its consideration of the agenda item referred to above, the Committee decided first, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the draft law should be dealt with under the same agenda item at that meeting of the Committee, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of Law. He also decided to draw up an additional bill on the basis of a government proposal for a law. He also concluded that the draft law on the basis of which an amended proposal for a law was drawn up would include paragraphs 1 and 3 of the parliamentary proposal for a law which would become Articles A1 and B1 in such a draft law. While it was pointed out by the representative of the proposer of the draft law that the applicants objected to such a way of dealing with it, the draft law was tabled in the order of the first instance and a request for a general discussion was made on this proposal. In addition, the draft law, according to its proposers, regulates in particular another matter as a legal proposal from the Government. The chairman of the Committee has also drawn attention to the implementation of parliamentary practice, which allows for this kind of consideration of legislative proposals. On the basis of the decisions thus adopted, the Committee carried out a second reading of the Government proposal for a law in a composite text, which forms the text of a government proposal with articles 1 and 3 included in the draft law. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the coalition parliamentary group and the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the discussion on individual articles and amendments tabled, the main focus was on the proposed re-allocation of income from agricultural subsidies and other state aid related to the basic agricultural and basic forestry activity in the amount of actual income received, or on the proposed return to the system of taxation of the actual amounts of subsidies taxed on actual receipts and the compulsory income of large farms on the basis of actual income and actual and standardised expenditure. In the context of the debate in the second article of the government proposal, both opposition amendments and representatives of the Slovenian Farmers' Union and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia expressed opposition to such solutions. The timing of the adoption of legislation which prevents the in-depth examination of proposed solutions has been highlighted, but the representatives of the trade union and the chamber have pointed out some open issues; inter alia, it has been noted that, despite the fact that the increase is indeed unfair, from a systemic point of view, it has not joined the relevant regulation of the problem in question, which is why we are returning to the situation as it was in 2005 and 2006. It was mentioned that the burden on farmers due to the solutions proposed by the Government would be high, according to the union's assessment. The expected financial impact of the proposed law will, however, be between €5 million and €7 million of additional budgetary revenue in 2012, when the transitional period ends. It was also pointed out that a specific accounting standard for agriculture was needed. On the basis of open questions, the union proposed to continue discussions with the Ministry of Finance, which might lead to better solutions for the consideration of the bill at the meeting of the National Assembly. The representative of the Chamber stressed, inter alia, that the proposed law, as well as the previous novelties, only partially addresses the issue of farmers' income tax, but pointed out that it was already in 2006 that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted a decision to exclude agricultural policy measures from taxation under the Income Act. Among the proponents of the proposed law, it was pointed out, inter alia, that, due to the unfairness of the flat-rate taxation referred to by the debtors, this regime should be amended. Discussions on open issues brought to the attention of representatives of the public concerned need to be continued and, for a transitional period, the proposed law provides for a favourable regime that will not give rise to additional burdens on the debtors from 2010 and is fair and fair due to the gradual increase in the share of taxable income. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to the coalition groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian People's Party and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Cappič has gone undetectably beyond the scope of the presentation, but fine. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you. Your Honor! The proposer proposes amendments for two general reasons to address or resolve some of the open problems arising from the implementation of tax legislation and, secondly, to align domestic legislation with the right order of the EU. First, the issue of subsidy revenues. Until 2005, revenues from agricultural and forestry activities carried out by natural persons were taxed only on the basis of cadastral income. Significant changes will take place in 2005. Income from these activities shall also be included in the revenue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u135	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u136	Subsidies which were not exempt from income were in the transitional system in 2005 and 2006 concerning the percentage of subsidies actually received. [[...]] There was also an opportunity to switch to the income-finding system by keeping business books, but there was no practical effect. Since 2007, some new solutions have been put in place, which have not been specifically implemented and demonstrated in a systematic manner, and the law has now been amended to allow for a fairer tax burden on the taxpayers, while at the same time classifying farms according to their economic power. In order to facilitate the transition to a new way of taxation, there will be a gradual transition and agricultural policy measures paid in 2013 will be fully integrated into the tax base. Another instrument was to be activated – mandatory inclusion in the book management simplification system. The concerns of those who do not know how to record business for historical reasons are, at least, understandable as to the costs involved. Another time. The EU has drawn Slovenia's attention to some inconsistencies in the case of performing non-resident operators and athletes who do not have a business unit in Slovenia. In fact, it is a matter of continuing to regulate this, otherwise a sufficiently tax-yielding area. The government now believes that taxation should be achieved by allowing those taxpayers to be taxed on a net basis, and that the way in which the actual costs are applied would be determined by another law; I think by the tax procedure law. Indeed, the Group believes that the bill is amended and that it enforces the principles that the tax is paid in the light of the income actually achieved and the economic power of the debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by quoting Prime Minister Borut Pahor. At the presentation of the budget memorandum on 11 October 2010, he said here, in this Chamber: "We will not increase the consolidation of public finances by increasing tax burdens, let this be made clear and loud. We will not increase the tax burden." End of quote. And what we have before us - a proposal for a law explaining the financial consequences of the bill's proposal, I quote again: "It is estimated that, as a result of the inclusion of most of the agricultural subsidies in taxation, income from income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities will increase by about a third." I'm asking now, who's here now, and why? The proposed amendment of the law has changed for the third time the system of taxation in agriculture and forestry. Such a rapid change in taxation systems is problematic and requires constantly new and new adjustments. This time we go even further, and in November we change the terms and the amount of taxpayers' taxation 11 months ago, and not a word about the relative prohibition of retroactivity, which is always an excuse for any proposal we make. And since the proponents continue to say, I quote, "The income from this source represents less than 0.5% of all income, the proposed amendments to the law will not have any more important public financial effects." We suggest you support our amendments and once you stop this constant burden on those who need it at the moment. So in the parliamentary group, we oppose the proposal for a law that increases the burden of Slovenian agriculture in this case. This is a new four million euro burden, at least according to the State Secretary of the Committee on Finance. If we play with numbers like they taught me, it's about 4,000 bulls for the Slovenian budget. I will say, at least 4,000 bulls for the Slovenian budget, this is the burden of Slovenian agriculture! And at the time of the decline in sales prices in agriculture, all sales prices in recent years in 2009 and 2010 and in the social situation of Slovenian agriculture, I find this absurd. Each euro of burden threatens the existence of Slovenian farms and seriously threatens the strategic intention to raise the share of self-sustainment in Slovenia. You probably know the number that we fell below 50%, which is a real disaster. In the Slovenian People's Party we have opposed and opposed and will always oppose all proposals for increases in such or different taxes, taxes, excise duties and so on for anyone, because this is not appropriate at this time. When the country seals the belt and sets a good example for everyone else, it will also be the basis for discussion on such measures. As long as it saves on social transfers, pensions, kindergartens, farmers, the new one, and at the same time it spends on long and long-term public administrations, as we have demonstrated yesterday in the budget debate, we will never agree with such proposals and we will also vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed text of the new law on income is practically a sum of two independently submitted novels to this law, which, according to our assessment, are rightly and carefully treated as a so-called hybrid. In this way, we shorten the treatment procedures because instead of two readings, only one is done, and this cannot be, as anyone would have thought, at the expense of the quality and clarity of the text of the law. We fully agree with such a procedure in our Group of Members. Let me add that, according to our belief on these principles: rationality, prudence, appropriateness, eligibility should be based on all the decisions of all of us who represent the Slovenian people. This would certainly not be the case when an identical law is dealt with at our meetings four times and more than is the case for tax laws or financial laws. Nevertheless, we now have before us an amendment to the Income Act, which relates to several segments that are acceptable and will be supported by us, namely, the treatment of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, the tax treatment of pensions, the tax treatment of income generated by non-residents – performers, operators and athletes. The proposed amendments relating to taxation of residents of European Union participants, the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund in order to align the latter on taxation with the tax regime applicable to Members of the European Parliament; therefore, in order to supplement the difference in income under the Slovenian legislation, it is not acceptable for our Members to accept the current decisions as they are also bound by international documents. As far as the tax treatment of pensions is concerned, in the DeSUS Group, we are fully in agreement with the current one. In practice, the arrangement does not constitute a higher tax burden on those who choose to pay from supplementary pension insurance in the form of pensions. While this is a particular type of active income, which must be taxed according to the principles on which the entire tax system is based in the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the government has taken a step closer to all beneficiaries of these pensions at the rate of taxation of this income, since, given the fact that pensioners are largely not liable to income and according to the amount of the pension pension, pensioners will therefore not be able to jump to a higher tax grade and thus be subject to higher tax burden. That is why in the DeSUS Group we support such government incentives. However, as regards the establishment of the tax base for farmers, Members of the DeSUS confirm the Government's position that something needs to be done in this area, as there is in fact an unequal treatment between farmers themselves today. Therefore, in principle, we support the proposed solution, and what more will we say in the course of the debate about the amendments as well as the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye to the Secretary of State, the audience, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, taxes and deaths are not something to be enjoyed in life, but they are not. We have talked a lot about the budget, how we will share, and the time is coming when we need to have appropriate concrete solutions, how to close the budget. [[advertising in the hall]] Mr. Pukšič, you will have a word with the amendments later. Thank you very much. The new Income Act certainly brings positive changes in the area of pension payments, as the Government proposes a more favourable tax treatment with a reduced tax base to pay these pensions. The change also follows the objectives of pension changes, where we want to ensure decent high pensions. In fact, after the current regime, pensions paid as part of an additional pension insurance are taxed as income from the employment relationship, in full. Therefore, a new, third paragraph of Article 42 of the Income Act, which states that only 50 % of the income is included in the tax base of the pension pension on the basis of the voluntary supplementary pension insurance and the comparable pension income received from abroad. This means, in practice, that those beneficiaries of supplementary pension benefits who choose to receive a monthly pension will be in a significantly better position than if they decided to raise the savings money one time. In addition, with the amendment to Article 127, we allow citizens to also decide on the calculation of the reduced rate of payment of their pension pension pension from now on of the applicable 25 % of the rate of payment of their income. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support this kind of tax burden. However, another very important part of the story concerns the area of tax treatment of income from agricultural and forestry activities. It brings radical changes, on the one hand, to the enforcement of the calculation of income on the basis of cadastral income and the income actually received from subsidies. In this way, it is mainly trying to protect those small farms which, due to the average value of the subsidies, are at a disadvantage and to some extent bear the burden of larger farms paying too low a burden on the actual situation. There is a lot of evidence in the media about the additional burden on farms, so in 2010 it will be possible for farms to choose between the flat-rate system and the system of actual payments, for one that is more favourable for each farm. In addition, for 2011 and 2012, an additional transitional period is introduced, including 50 % of the subsidies actually paid if voted today in the tax base. In terms of fairness and also more transparent and fair treatment, the income threshold is also laid down when the household farmers determine income on the basis of the so-called bookkeeping. Of course, we are used to working hard on farmers all day long, all seven days a week, so of course any additional administration is the most unproductive, concrete burden. However, all European agriculture is regulated in this way, and we will have to adapt to Slovenia and Slovenia as soon as possible, and therefore, of course, we need simple and efficient models that will simplify the story. Otherwise, with tax reform, which unfortunately affects all areas of life, including agriculture, we want to regulate the situation so that there are not too many additional resources in agriculture, because where it does not exist, the military does not take them. I think, in my personal opinion and in the opinion of the Group of Members, that if we want to produce more good, healthy food, then, in addition to taxes that will be difficult to avoid, we need first and foremost incentives to be recognised by the consumer for the quality he has in Slovenia, a higher, better price, and administration only as much as it allows for income, subsidies and resources, and, of course, a burden that shifts energy to another non-productive area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the next few minutes, I will try to present the position of the Group of Non-Related Members of the Solidarity Group in three sets. First, as regards the procedure and then as regards the content proposed, and thirdly, as regards our relationship with the proposed amendments. The procedure itself, the so-called hybrid procedure, in our Group of Members, we support and think that for the appropriate reasons. First of all, it's a rationalisation of the procedure. It is about not spending too much time to implement some of the solutions that have been proposed in two different proposals. Secondly, we are not wasting time not to get into trouble if we fail to implement what the changes and additions to the income law foresee for 2010. The second observation, which was clear about the proposed procedure, was that there are very different content in two different laws, but we estimate that, although it is indeed a variety of content, there is still content under tax legislation and specialties falling under income legislation. So it's not something that we can't deal with together for substantive reasons. The weight of the consequences proposed by both draft laws is also not the same. The bill we call the law is one of the amendments or additions when the European Investment Fund is also mentioned among the European institutions, which is not necessary, but there is no mistake in writing this, and it is an attempt to treat otherwise the basis for the payment of income to all those who are either as officials or as servants employed in the European institutions. With regard to the content of the government proposal to relieve the burden of saving for age, we support the ambition to prevent one-off increases, which is why, of course, we support the proposed 50% relief for savings that will be paid in the form of pensions when they are most needed, so when it comes to ensuring social security at an age. As far as income legislation is concerned, we have been in the position all the time that maybe this threshold for compulsory bookkeeping is at 5,000 euros too low, and we are glad that we have two different proposals now, but both amendments change this and change it for the better. An amendment is also proposed to determine the basis for calculating the income. We know that the first attempt was to reduce 70% of the base to 10%, which was an excessive decline for us. This current amendment, which speaks of 50% of the basis, is also acceptable to us and will therefore be supported in the debate and in the decision-making process. There is also no doubt that we support that actual costs or that actual income from agricultural measures are taken into account and that income is calculated on the basis of this. The same is true of our support for the proposal to take into account the actual benefits for those who are creators in the cultural, entertainment or sports field, and thus to determine otherwise the basis for the calculation of their income. In other words, let us conclude that it is customary to say in tax legislation that its fundamental principles are the following. First of all, the one who's a taxpayer is also a mercenary. Secondly, that the tax base will not be very general and very low and to be as low as possible, this is the third time, an exception. As far as the exceptions are concerned, we have not been very consistent and we have mentioned some more, so that for a lot of people who will have to account for income, income after new, this will probably mean a problem and a need to get help from experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In our consideration of the government proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income, we also had a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Given that the laws have dealt with the various content within the income, we welcome the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to combine the proposals of both laws and to prepare a new text of the bill. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the additions proposed by the Group of Members in order to make it more clear in the law on income of the taxable person receiving income from the employment relationship received on the basis of employment in the institutions of the European Union. In doing so, we must not overlook the protocols concluded by the Republic of Slovenia with the institutions of the European Union that already regulate this area and have already been regulated by the provisions of the Income Act. There could only be ambiguities with employees in the European Investment Fund, so in the Group of Social Democrats we support that this is also introduced into the amendment of the Income Act. However, the Act amending and supplementing the Income Act, together with the amendments to the Tax Procedure Act proposed by the Government, allows for a change in the taxation of income from agricultural and forestry activities based on the establishment of the income threshold for determining the taxable persons from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities on the basis of a flat-rate estimated income of EUR 200 of the total flat-rate income, both catastronomic income and flat-rate income assessment on the board, in order to balance the situation of all those who carry out the basic agricultural and basic forestry activity. Unifying the threshold for all agricultural activities, including beekeeping. The bill establishes a system of imputation of income from agricultural subsidies and other State aid in respect of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the amount of the income actually received. The tax system for the taxation of actual amounts of taxable subsidies in actual recipients is also returned to tax legislation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the current way of taxing subsidies on the basis of a flat rate was unfair, particularly to those who did not reach the average and therefore paid income from something they did not actually get. However, those who received relatively high subsidies had a lower tax base. It is also determined when large farms will be required to switch to income on the basis of actual income and actual or standardised expenditure. However, there is also a transitional period in which this system will be implemented, and we believe that after 2013, the taxation of farmers will be fairer and fairer. It is worth noting, however, that there will be no higher taxes for farmers for 2010, since, for the first time, it is possible for taxpayers to decide how they will be taxed - either after the flat rate or after the actual subsidies received - and therefore the actual taxation will be lower. However, if all the amendments proposed are adopted, in fact, taxation for farmers in 2010, 2011 and 2012 will actually be lower than it is now. Therefore, there is no claim that this income introduces new taxes or new burdens. There may be little emphasis, however, on changes in terms of promoting additional pension insurance. In particular, I would like to point out that there is a much more favourable taxation of pensions than has been taxation so far. Under this Act, 50 % of pension income will be included in the tax base as of 2011, which means that pension beneficiaries will have higher pension pensions in payment, and that the first pension will probably not exceed EUR 160, means that the actual pension would also not be charged with income upturns and the beneficiaries will have paid full pensions in 2011. In view of the fact that the first one-off increases will be possible in 2011, a more favourable tax treatment of pension solutions is to promote savings for old age and to prevent the negative consequences of the withdrawals of savings from voluntary supplementary pension insurance in a single amount that will be possible after 1. 1. 2011. In view of the fact that single payers will want to raise money, they will be taxed with a 25% income adjustment, which will ultimately be considered an annual tax base and will mean taxation of up to 41% in the income forecast in 2012 for 2011. In view of the fact that only 50% of the pension pension was proposed by the Government in order to keep more savings for pension insurance. As a result, the savings amount saved after 10 years will be converted into a pension pension, which, on the basis of more favourable taxation, will actually have more available income, which will be allocated over a number of years, but on the basis of a pension pension, will be guaranteed income at the time of retirement. As it is said, the parliamentary group will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Two laws on amendments and additions to the Income Act have been introduced into the parliamentary procedure, namely the government, following an urgent procedure which deals mainly with the taxation of agricultural households, and the second, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, following a regular procedure dealing with the taxation of EU officials. On the home working body, the marriages were united into one, which we opposed in the SDS, as a request for a general discussion has already been tabled on our part and because it is not possible to combine different materials into one whole. Otherwise, the proposed government amendment to the Income Act has been prepared quickly in our view, and consequently does not contain any comprehensive and systemic solutions, as the coalition's amendments have also been recently submitted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the proposed solution, which provides that farmers whose total income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 5,000 will have to determine the tax base for income purposes on the basis of actual or standardised expenditure. This means that the household farmer will have to start using, or pay for, a demanding double bookkeeping to determine the tax base. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is a serious and unnecessary additional financial and administrative burden for farmers, so we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party proposing that the current arrangements be in force, whereby farmers themselves decide on how to manage business books or determine the tax base. By the way, the amount of EUR 5,000 is paid in a few days in our country. Here, for example, a farmer who will have €5 000 100 a year will have to keep a business book or pay a thousand or 2,000 euros an accounting service to manage the bookkeeping. And one more thing. It is mentioned in the paper that in Slovenia, according to the available data, there are about 6 000 such farms, so in Slovenia we have about 70 000 farms that apply subsidies for agricultural policy measures and only 6 thousand 100 such, which have incomes of more than 5,000 euros, which I think is extremely small and is real poverty. We will also impose additional financial and administrative burdens on this by law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also of the opinion that it is inappropriate to extend the concept of a farm household to all persons who are temporarily or permanently registered at the same address, since there may also be a person who is not engaged in agricultural or forestry activities at the same address. It's, say, like I'm staying at the same address as some d. o.o. and I'm going to have to pay a proportional part of her profits. We also do not agree with the inclusion in the tax base of subsidies and other incomes related to basic agricultural and forestry activities in 2010, 2011 and 2012 of 70%, and this would be 100 % after 2013. In doing so, it must be said that no Member State in the EU is in a cadastral income or flat-rate mode of taxation that prescribes payments on the basis of an agricultural policy measure, knows either flat-rate taxation or identifies the tax base on the basis of actual expenditure and actual or standardised expenditure. Because of everything listed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote on the way to such a hybrid bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. So, I am putting to the debate or to a vote, given that the parliamentary groups have not announced time for debate on the amendments to this agenda item, I propose that, on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, any declared debater may only discuss the individual amendment once. This is a business option that you, Members and Members of Parliament can decide on. We propose a vote on this [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] whether or not we limit anything, that is also possible. [[...]] Okay, then I will not put this proposal to the vote. I don't think that's necessary. Did you get the amendment review on the table yet? So, you got the amendments on the table and you haven't checked the amendments yet. Things are going really fast. Do you want us to stop the session or continue it? Okay. You have amendments, you do not have an amendment review, you will get a review of the amendments safely before deciding on the amendments. I am putting to the debate Article B1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving on to Article 2. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. These are therefore the three amendments to Article 2. Who wants to discuss these three amendments to Article 2? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, especially because I would not have wanted and allowed it in any way, even because of the area where I come from, and also because of other areas of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to make it anyhow, that the National Assembly or Members of the Coalition, and also the Government, we do not support farmers and, in particular, the normal lives of people, especially in the area where I come from. I therefore estimate that a transitional period and support for farmers are needed here. I can't afford to have any other information coming out to the public that they don't. I am sorry, however, that this type of problem in relation to farmers, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, the Farmers' Union did not also address an interested working body, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I personally assess that it would be right for them to give their opinion. This case only came to the Finance Committee. But it's never too late. That's why I think it's right that we support this amendment. I'll back him up myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What you have prepared in the proposal for this law to establish the tax base in this way by means of compulsory accounting and with a EUR 5,000 basis for the common income of the members of the farm household is, of course, in accordance with your policy towards the Slovenian farmer. This policy of the current government is a policy of destroying the Slovenian farmer. As I said last on the Committee on Agriculture, where we discussed the report on the state of agriculture in 2009, which gives disastrous results, what is the income situation of the Slovenian farmer and how drasticly the prices of all agricultural crops fell in 2009. This situation continues in 2010. This relationship between the current government coalition and the farmer is still based on the view that the farmer is a class enemy of this company. You are the heirs of a 50-year-old hate policy to a Slovenian farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u153	Mr Jerovšek, we are discussing the amendment and this amendment does not contain who is the enemy of the Slovenian farmer, nor is it possible to amend this enemy. So I ask you to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u154	Mr. President, please allow me! You were known for your trips in your previous term in your explanations. Now you're restricting democracy. I have to discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u155	Everything you wanted to say, you said and more.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u156	I must discuss on the basis of the 2009 report on the state of agriculture prepared by the government services or the Institute of Economics in Agriculture. It clearly states that the state of agriculture is catastrophic, that Slovenian agriculture is actually just ahead of bankruptcy. In fact, it's already bankrupt. And only on account of the five-vascular farmers working for this country and now you're taxing them extra. Don't be shy! This taxation will mean that Slovenian farmers or Slovenian agriculture will really be defeated. Your strategy is: give everything for the trader and some processors, but nothing for the producer. In addition, you want to drain the farmer by hiring accounting services and I don't know what. Simple is no money, and no farmer hides anything from this country. No farmer lives at the expense of luxury. But if there are shoppers within agriculture, there are frauds, and they are persecuted by the rule of law, which, of course, you do not support. You're against the rule of law. But you are for the destruction of the farmer and agriculture. See, it is sad enough in this report that in last year Slovenia became a net importer of agricultural dairy products, including raw milk, for the first time in history. Where did you bring this country? Although milk is surplus, we are a net importer and, of course, stimulate further traders, traders and traders, because they are your directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u157	That's not an explanation for the voice. Of course, right now you don't have to say anything about an amendment to support it or not. Likar likes his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. I have already said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we oppose the proposed solution, it is said that EUR 5,000 is the threshold for determining the tax base on the basis of income, actual income or actual expenditure. I don't know what was the basis for this 5,000 figure, but the fact that 5,000 euros is earned today by every student through a student service. Burdening farmers primarily with administrative burdens and, of course, financial burdens are not negligible at this time, but I really do not know what the purpose is. Is it intended to promote agricultural activity? Is it intended to fill the state budget? Even if the aim is to fill the state budget, I do not think that this way, too, will make the State Malha any more rich or help to reduce the state deficit. However, the farmer will be greatly relieved if he does not have to keep books for the time being. However, he still has a chance to make his own decision, for a flat-rate decision means a flat-rate decision. It's good for someone, it's bad for someone. Let him determine when and in which cases he will decide to determine the tax base on actual income or actual expenditure. As I say, I don't know, at least I don't know which comparable country in the EU to have such a low threshold for the mandatory determination of the tax base on the basis of bookkeeping. I don't know why we want to be first in this situation, first in bad, as Mr Jerovšek reminded me. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support our amendment, which, as it is said, restores or preserves the situation as it has been in force so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Procedural Flower Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have now also received a review of the amendments. I just wanted to warn you, given that we're discussing amendments to make it right, and obviously, my colleagues in the SDS didn't see and notice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u161	You have to address the President of the National Assembly on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u162	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u163	You must address the procedural question to the President of the National Assembly, not to colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, because the President of the National Assembly will be offended.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u164	The President of the National Assembly, please, if you would like to remind your colleagues from the SDS that an amendment has been tabled, which has raised the value of keeping the books to €7 000,500, because I think it is an infertile debate when we are talking about something that has already been exceeded and corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that there has already been an amendment of coalition groups that raises between 5,000 and 7 thousand 500 euros. I've completed my mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u166	We're moving on. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nevertheless, the amendment, which only slightly simplifies this difficult situation, would suggest that the debate should be devoted. And I would also say that, given your message that everyone because of these procedural complications can only discuss once, then it is necessary to discuss everything when you get the word. The starting point for my debate is definitely [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u168	Comrade Zicherl, this proposal has not been submitted for decision, has not been adopted. But you can debate as much as you think it's appropriate to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much for explaining. I come from one of the previous meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, where a report on the status of Slovenian agriculture was presented for 2009. One common denominator can be deleted from this report that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is devastating, crisis-stricken. It would certainly be necessary to have at least an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where the Minister should present measures to get us out of this situation.In this report, we have found the data itself, the very bad data on how much production has fallen in certain segments of agriculture, especially the crisis for agriculture, how much purchase prices have fallen, which I did not think would be logical, since the prices of the farmer have fallen by 10 per cent or more. At the same time, at the stock market, we see the rise in food prices in the sky and therefore the indirect threats to the production industry, the food production industry, about the increase in the price of bread due to the buying-in prices. I certainly cannot agree with the very complicated bureaucracy required of farmers. In order to be able to keep books, external contractors, i.e. accounting services, will also have to be hired and will receive additional costs. Now, around the subsidies. Those who follow prices from field to consumer can easily determine that most of the subsidies are essentially due to traders, to wholesalers. The farmer gets just enough to survive. The food-processing industry is also on the verge of survival and the trade chains are booming and, of course, we pay consumers enormously high prices. Why now put the subsidy into the income base as well as the correct threshold of EUR 7 000 500 instead of EUR 5 000, but we could still talk more about the hobby of the programme than about the activity. The medium-sized farm would, given how many employees, how much they depended on their work, have at least the property of a small company, so it might be worth considering how to treat it as a small production company rather than a hobby programme. The subsidy, the treatment of subsidies in Slovenia, reminds me, for example, when a doctor prescribes and approves to a patient all of Ospen, and at the same time, at the time of implementation, a nurse would break the patient’s or the farmer’s half-life and take it away from him. Treatment or assistance would thus be ineffective or at least twice longer. And, of course, self-sufficiency and inadequacy, which is always lower. Self-sufficient care, of course Jerovšek already mentioned the case of milk, to a physical extent is over 100% self-sufficient and to a physical extent we are net exporters, in physical. But we're net importers. So, basically, we're giving raw materials to export, and we're buying expensive products back. All of this is certainly not for the farmer. We will have to start once solving this problem, otherwise we can only dream of a farmed and cultivated rural area and, above all, about food, which is becoming more and more strategic raw materials like oil, energy and everything else. It is also appropriate to deal with agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I am surprised that colleagues from the SDS Group are talking about not supporting this new Law on Income. I am surprised that this law reduces the tax burden on small farmers and taxes those who have larger farms more fairly. In fact, when the SDS led the government and also had the agricultural sector, an amendment to the Income Act was adopted, which actually unloaded the largest farms at the expense of the smallest. In fact, the tax rate meant that small farms also paid income from income they had not received at all. We're putting an end to this law. This was a huge injustice that has taken place since 2004. This injustice is being abolished today by the adoption of this law. However, more real taxation in this Article 2 is sought in a way that actually includes actual income, not flat income, but actual tax base. Since it is also an obligation for the farm to decide to manage the bookkeeping according to the amount of revenue generated by the individual member, the amendment raises this threshold from EUR 5,000 to EUR 7 thousand 500. It means that the obligation of mandatory accounting in the proposal, which has been written down and was somehow binding for 6 thousand 100 farms in Slovenia, reduces the amendment to around 3,000 farms in Slovenia. Therefore, those farms that, on the basis of the income actually earned, will have to manage the mandatory bookkeeping for individual members of this agricultural economy, with income of 7 000 500 euros. We want to achieve this by actually taxing the real income and income that someone receives. This is actually what this law is talking about in this part. If you insist on preserving this injustice that has been legalized so far, you will not support this law. However, if you are in favour of eliminating the taxation of those smallest farms where we cannot actually survive under such heavy burdens, then this means the continued deterioration of the Slovenian countryside and Slovenian farms. Because a cycle has not yet been established so that someone can take over agricultural areas that he wants to process and has a farm, because there is still a whole range of other activities to be carried out, including the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, but this is the second chapter. Today, we are really talking about eliminating the unfair taxation of the smallest farms. With regard to the discussions that we are a net importer of agricultural products, we are respected when you led the agricultural sector, milk has begun to be exported to Italy. Therefore, you allowed the export of raw material to Italy and from Italy to import products which constitute value added for Italy. But then we pay for all of this in these stores. So, what agricultural policy was it that it was unable in the domestic environment to bring together the interest of the food-processing industry, farmers and trade? In my opinion, it's very bad. Today we have the situation that we are actually exporting milk instead of domestically processing it and then selling processed products to the market of the European Union or to other countries that are not members of the European Union. But that's the fact that happened at the time that this department ran the SDS. Regarding class enemies, i.e. that this coalition is supposed to be a class enemy of farmers, but once again, if you read a statement from a farmer who has been working the land for centuries, he made it very clear that socialism was much more friendly to a farmer than it was to this moment, when, in fact, you don't know what could happen to you year after year. So it was more organized, more transparent, and it was possible to grow in a way that you knew what was coming to you tomorrow. Today, unfortunately, too many farmers don't know what's coming tomorrow. That is why we come to a much more realistic basis by means of this law and determine what the revenues are and whether any tax should be paid out of these revenues at all. That's it. We are slowly overcoming all these shortcomings that have occurred in Slovenia through the history of the formation of agricultural non-politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u172	Replication, correction of misstatement. Please, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Weber cannot from his own skin and praises the achievements of agriculture in the previous system, but his citizens, farmers in Kočevska, have realized in this mandate that it will not hold, so he was not elected mayor. Look, of course, I have to say, his allegations that something bad has begun to export milk to Italy, because farmers export it at a higher price than domestic processing buys, dairyes, and they are in your hands. Why does processing not reduce costs and have cheaper dairy products and export them at a higher price? You've got the wrong idea. In this way it is entirely wrong to state the correctness of this taxation.I am in favour of further reducing small farmers. Why haven't you prepared a new law that will further reduce taxation for small farmers? Well, haven't you, Mr. Weber, seen that report on the state of agriculture since you were on the board and you saw how catastrophic the state of the farmer is? How did prices fall by 30%? The price of the food product in the store, where traders priced and processed, even increased. And you tax your merchants. See, if it were so good in agriculture, then Jankovic would turn the habitable land of his sons into agricultural land and serve on agriculture, but he does the opposite. He's working backwards. He turns agricultural land into habitable land, his, Jankovic's sons, not a farmer, but you show that the farmer here is easy content.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u174	Mr Jerovšek, please, in the context of the replica, which means correcting the incorrect statements. Please, hold on to one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u175	I'm just proving it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u176	I've left you for over a minute to talk past, and now I ask you to focus on the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u177	He was trying to prove where the wrong agricultural policy was, where it started. I would expect an agricultural minister to sit here today and fight for farmers, but for the last time, he was not on the Agriculture Committee's report. Clearly, of course, do not let him fight for the farmers, even though he promised it at the time of the construction. And unfortunately, in previous performances, they were completely unrealistic. If you want to help a farmer, any small one, reduce his tax. And you're making taxes. He will have to hire services and this is a reliable step towards the collapse of many thousands more farms. In fact, we will have as catastrophic a situation throughout Slovenia as it is in Kočevska, where you have always said that the previous system was good. Then why did agriculture die there a long time ago?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It's not possible to replicate the replica. You will apply again, Mr Weber, when the debate is exhausted. The word is by Franz Bogovich. Excuse me, Mr. Ziherl. The replica has Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u179	I'm going to focus on the replica because my performance has been slightly reversed. It's a milk condition. We are physically net exporters, and then they get it – abroad and at home it would not be any better – and the processors and they charge it with the price that the price balance is negative for a smaller amount when it comes back to the market. And despite the surplus, we are importers of milk in a financial sense. That's one thing. Another time. Celebrating how good agriculture was during the social era, they will not hold, for there was then an artificial market where the processing industry and farmers were sort of like children in a booth. They could not fall anywhere, yet there were also huge differences. In a run-down agriculture, prices soared in the planning economy – the case on the ground – that 5 bulls were enough for the same tractor one year and 15 more years later. So even in that planning economy, it wasn't the best. In particular, certain products have been overrated, such as duke's corn. When Slovenia imported them across the third market into Luka Koper, they were redirected to Split and then to help India because there was no free market. The difference was four times the price.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the debate on Article 2 and the amendments tabled. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u181	Nice greetings, respectable president, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to welcome on the balcony those most affected by this issue are representatives of farmers and agricultural organisations. Nicely greeted among us! First of all, Mrs Renati Brunskole's reply, which is unfortunately not here right now, is why the Committee on Agriculture could not consider this to be an interested working body. 4. 11. 2010 was passed by the Government, 5 by Parliament, 5 by the mother labour force, the Committee on Finance, and 12 by the meeting. On the same day, I also tried to reach a deadline for the Committee on Agriculture to address this subject as an interested body, but respected colleagues and colleagues with a budget debate, and in particular with investigative commissions, so filled in the deadlines that it was simply not possible to deal with this subject in a very difficult way because all the halls were full and overlapped. That's why it's hard for me to accept any evidence of that. With regard to the debate under way, I think it is necessary to start again. When the biggest party was getting confused about what was wrong at any time, let me tell you what I've been evaluating myself in the last decade and a little bit more than the greatest success. By bringing about €400 million to Slovenia by Slovenian agricultural policy holders, the funds that come into agriculture annually are around €400 million. I will not repeat or say who successfully led that agricultural policy at the time, so that I do not trigger any controversy. However, these were the bright moments when we were able to secure funds in the Slovenian budget in a timely manner, so that we can also use these funds at our disposal today as part of the possibility of using European funds. However, there is a problem here and some misinterpretation of these so-called subsidies or compensatory payments, OMD payments, as it is also used in the positions of the groups of Members that this is the income of the farm, that the subsidies are income. This is accounting in the income category. Thus, this is a countervailable payment for the deficit for the drop in the market price fixed by this open world market for agricultural products. Including these subsidies, as has already been said, we have found on the Committee on Agriculture that two years after each other, factor income in agriculture is falling dramatically and that there is virtually nothing to tax when we talk about these subsidies that we are now trying to tax in such or other percentages. That is why we have also tabled in another article of the amendment that we are against this decision being made. With regard to Article 2, I think it is a number that will include too many farms in this mandatory accounting and accounting. For the first information, as has already been said, refers to about 6,000 farms. The 7 thousand 500 is now between 3 and 4 thousand farms. However, if we try to imagine a little, there are 60 administrative units in Slovenia. It is said that we are still talking about 50 farms on average per administrative unit, although we know that there are several administrative units that are not agricultural. I come from Krske by myself, from the agricultural field. I can calmly say that I literally know all the large farmers in the Christian congregation, but I do not see more than 10, 15 professional farmers, for whom I think it would be right for them to be legally appointed to manage this bookkeeping. These already have in the context of VAT accounting and here certain accounting documents. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, 3,000 farms will be burdened with about a thousand euros. I guess this bookkeeping is going to cost so much a year, which is nothing special. This means that we have given EUR 3 million to some bureaucrat institutions that will carry out these accounting activities. So, on the one hand, we're hunting 4 million dollars for the budget and partially 3 million dollars for bureaucratic costs, which is totally inappropriate. That's why we put this amendment on our side, which may have been exaggerated. That would mean, I don't know, only around 150 farms. I think that this amendment, which has also been tabled by the coalition and with which the number of farms is now falling from 6,000 to 3,000, should be completed and put in place at least by bringing about a thousand farms, the largest ones, into this mandatory bookkeeping. The rest of them should decide for themselves, as they now had the chance. I think that this amendment needs to be upgraded in this part as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Matthew Vraničar, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Allow me also a few comments on Article 2 of the bill and the amendments that are tabled on it. Article 2 refers to Article 47 of the Income Act, which provides for a method of determining the tax base for those individual natural persons who acquire income by carrying out their activities. All taxpayers, all individuals engaged in any economic activity, must keep books and must identify the tax base by identifying the revenue actually received, from which they can deduct either standard expenditure or actual expenditure. So far, only the agricultural sector has had the possibility of applying or establishing a tax base on the basis of so-called cadastral income or potential market income. The entry into the system of determining the tax base according to actual or standardised data was a matter of the assessment or decision of the individual debtor. The aim of the Government, with the proposed amendment to Article 47, is to bring it closer or somewhat more uniform, if you wish, more equally, to regulate the way of determining the tax base for those who carry out the activity. Whether to perform a service activity, a production activity, or to carry out an agricultural activity. We recognise that in the area of managing agricultural activities, those with the lowest income should be excluded from this system of determining income or tax base and that the current method of determining tax base with potential market income, i.e. cadastral income, should be maintained. This is followed by the proposed amendment. If the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, which would not be a threshold for the transition to compulsory book-keeping, were to be taken into account by a common but catastrotic income and would raise the threshold from EUR 5 000 to EUR 7 000 500, this would mean that only 51 farms should be kept in Slovenia. Already today, on the basis of voluntary inclusion in the book management system of around 130 and more farm households. We estimate that such a change of purpose which the Government has had by introducing the amendment to Article 47 means the abolition of mandatory book-keeping in the field of agriculture. For this reason, of course, we cannot support this amendment. Allow me to focus briefly on the allegations concerning the difficult situation in agriculture. The government recognised this difficult economic situation in agriculture and reduced its cadastral income by 36% during the spring months of this year. And that's that action. Through the determination of cadastral income, it is the measure by which it is necessary to respond to the difficult economic situation in agriculture, not by seeking specific solutions to determine the tax base. These provisions of the Income Act will only be taken into account and only if the agricultural economy is successful and achieves any income at all. If it does not exist, it will also be possible to determine the loss on the basis of these provisions. Let me add that we must not forget that Article 47 should be read in conjunction with Article 59, which sets out standard expenditure in the field of basic agricultural and forestry activities at 70%, for the rest 25 %. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendments to this Article? Yeah, I see interest. I'm opening the application. Mr. Bezjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well-welcome Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I cannot agree with you that we actually want to destroy this last little farmer in this small country. After all, we need to know that there are no large farmers in Slovenia or for the European situation of large ones. And also these few large farmers who are in Slovenia in order to keep tax books or accounting. After all, they're getting all their profits from intermediaries. We need to know that he gets a farmer for a litre of milk paid for 27 or 28 cents and in the store costs over the euro. I think the state needs to do something about this difference, in this profit. When you give, when we allow a farmer to receive one euro for a litre of milk paid, let us be happy to tax the farmer as well. In this way, I think we have no right. You know, over 800 farmers, older farmers, get 200 euros in pensions. What are these people gonna do? I don't know. I believe, and we have also proposed this last year for the economic sector, so that it should be higher, that it should rise and that there should be flat-rate taxation. Here, farmers could also be flat-rately taxed. By no means should you interfere, Madam Secretary of State, with farmers who have activities that perform services. That guy can't be a farmer. The farmer is the one who must actually have a s.p. or d.o.o. and is otherwise taxed, but not to be mixed into these laws. I advocate for good farmers in Slovenia, but I also advocate for those who produce organic food. Rather, let us support greater subsidies to these farmers so that they can actually produce healthy food and reward healthy food, not that our traders forced them to export milk to Italy. Why? Because they got paid better. Everyone's heading in the direction he's feeling better. Thank God. I think they've made this move to let Slovenian milkmen know it's not how it's done. That is why I support the amendment that has been tabled. Let's also make life possible for these people. They're taxpayers too, and they're living themselves if they don't put themselves in the Treasury. Otherwise, the country will have these people on the floor. I hope that you will have the sense to vote and that you will support this amendment, so that at least a fraction of the relief will be given to the Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Of course, we are opposed to such solutions as are currently occurring, and so is this amendment of ours. The taxation of subsidies comes through the client's door. In my opinion, it would be best to stay as long as the agricultural situation in Slovenia does not improve. When the representative of the Government here explains what must be done, how business books must be kept and how many more must be kept, we should insist here in Parliament that this remains as it is. I think we have every right to say that something has to stay, as you say it must be as it is currently set. Today we find that we are ultimately importers of milk through the products we import. On the other hand, we try to export raw milk. This is all due to agricultural policy. No, gentlemen! During the time we led this resort in the Slovenian People's Party, a great deal of efforts were made to protect the agricultural economy. Only parallel was another policy – free entry, free economy and the world, I would say, a commitment that must be because it is so in the world. Others have in a sophisticated way protected the matter, although I think we had lobbying in Slovenia, which they were interested in, so that they could cut out the farmer, the worker, etc. As you insist on this, I say that the Government has not yet expected improvements in agricultural work but elsewhere. That is why he insists on taxing what he is. Look, we have sad scenes when people go to the street to protect one job. I don't know, our farmer just can't go on a strike. He has to work because he has to stay there. Even if he's working with a loss. With this good work these farms are processed, these are our areas as they are, and Slovenia remains as beautiful as it was, is, and let us hope it will still be. But if this is how it's going to be done with this farming population, I don't think we're going to keep what we have. It's also a value, a value that costs something. That is why I fully support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I would ask the Group of Members and Members to be a little quieter. But if they want to continue their lively conversation, please step into the lobby. Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u189	Vice President, I was going to wait for your words to take effect, but it doesn't look like it's going to work. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! I think it's kind of a shame that he's not here today with the county secretary's or minister's farm base to say something. Article 2 includes three amendments: the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and the amendment of the government coalition. The first amendment, if adopted to delete an article, remains the same as it was. That's acceptable. Better is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which gives the so-called "cadastral income" along with the so-called "cadastral income". However, the third essential thing does not change except what it has already been, that farmers who will have to lead will be around 3,000 possible, which is, according to what has been said by the Secretary of State, that there are about 150 farmers and 130 who today voluntarily run books far too far.With our amendment, this changes to a smaller number, about 50, as has been said. But they can decide for themselves if they want to lead. So why don't we just leave it to them? But it's also a strange symbolism today. What is the message to the Slovenian farmer today from the National Assembly? Slovenian farmer, we have adopted the 2011 and 2012 budget. Of course, since we don't have where to take it from, we'll take what you have first. The first changes, i.e. taxes in the field of agriculture, will definitely increase or burden farmers with the second amendment with this government amendment. When we talk about the part of the subsidy payment, I'll talk about it later. According to the report, agriculture for 2009 is actually on the verge of survival. However, we should know that this country is treated as much as it is or only because of a Slovenian farmer. I already said that Slovenian farmer is the cheapest municipal worker. In other countries, to process and make in conditions that are not ideal for farming, of course, gets a reward, a subsidy, an additional stimulus for living and working there for the first time. Because living also means having more costs than those in some urban areas, where this is essentially different. I think today's message from the National Assembly should also be from the tax area, if you want, different. Not that we tax the farmer without taking what he has from the farmer, without further imposing on the farmer some of the obligations that we simply fabricate here, but that there should be a message: the budgets are adopted, they will need to be filled and we will seize all the assets of all those tycoons who have somehow planted this country where we are today. Farmers today may wonder where those golden times were when the kings were collecting tithes. Today, however, there is no question of whether anything else has come or not. In fact, it was the same after the storms, after the tides two years ago. Taxes were paid and no damages were recovered today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are considering three amendments to Article 2, which I will not repeat otherwise. However, I suppose that, at least I hope, I am a real person, and I really think that the amendment of the coalition will be adopted in the National Assembly in a second reading, which, by the way, slightly corrects the government proposal. In fact, the number 5,000 replaces the number 7 000 500 of the total income on the farm. As my colleague Bogovic said before, this means in Slovenia roughly, such is the assessment, I don't have it, but I've been hearing about it for about three thousand farms today, that means about 50 farms in the area of one administrative unit on average, when we calculate it, which, if we imagine our rural areas, is certainly not very small given that in many farms they live and work older farmers, that the average age on farms is extremely high. That must be a big problem. Of course, there must always be an incentive. I believe that it is also for farmers, especially young people, that they are gradually moving to actual accounting at standardised costs to manage accounting. This is certainly a goal in some final phase. Perhaps, unlike some others, I agree that the good side of this law is, because I am always trying to find something positive exactly what we have over the years been extremely critical of, and for a few years we have been trying also on the question that there was a big problem on the ground with so-called average, that is, some calculation of income on the basis of some average income and so on. Certainly, the agricultural profession or the farming population also claimed that accounting on an average is unfair and that what is being calculated, which is considered to be income, should be taken into account in the actual income of the farm. Those who are, in fact, what must certainly be done in all sectors, not only in agriculture. As it is said, given the fact that there is only a need to know some real state of farms and rural areas, I believe that, at this point in time, – perhaps ten years from now – it will be different – that this number of farms where compulsory accounting is relatively small. I'm not saying our proposal is ideal. But as I say, I assume that the amendment of the coalition groups will be adopted. This number still seems to us to be substantial, and then, at the end of the vote, if this amendment is adopted, we will propose that we try to fix this or that solution in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u193	Once again very briefly, I would not like to delay, and I must also say that my colleague, the Presecnik, has given most of the emphasis I wanted. It is my opinion, therefore, that this number, if we have classified 50 farms or 150 according to those cadastral revenues, is today 130 who have made their own choice and that the jump is also too large for 3,000 farms. That is why I repeat what my colleague Presecnik said in the third reading we will try to amend by targeting thousands of farms, which we estimate is a number where there are already so many professional farms, that there is also actually more income, that things need to be made more serious and that in this way we will find a common compromise in this provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say, an interesting debate, which is now at least following the last debaters into that right, constructive direction. Earlier, I must say that there were some discussions that could also answer the question why the black cow still milks white milk. And a joke on the side. In agriculture, income is not a key story. Agriculture gives this country much more to the Slovenian countryside. However, if we have a whole system built on taxation, then it is right and for the benefit of agriculture to be sure that agriculture is not an exception, that it is not the fruit of constant readings, but we need a transparent, transparent and, above all, an effective system. Amendment brought by government coalition parties. I agree that if we throw the data on the table, we review it all together, we improve it, we repair it, but in Slovenia we have a little more than 60 thousand households dealing with agriculture. More than 60,000 people apply for subsidies. If in the 20s, when we have spent millions and millions on accommodating and yet do not know what kind of professional service, we do not have 3,000 farms that can keep records and bookkeeping, then I am seriously concerned about the fate of Slovenian agriculture. A simple bookkeeping for services in Gorenjska, where we are more cost-effective, costs around €50 to the extent that the legislation foresees. All the farmers involved in investment went to agriculture, to accounting, and saw that it was good for them. If accounting is managed by about the same standards as most Slovenian espies know, then I am sure that they will pay significantly less than they have paid so far, because the inputs, the costs – read it in other words – are extremely high in agriculture. However, the balance of income remaining for possible taxation is lower. The amendment is good because with over 6,000 taxpayers, it goes to a good 3,000. It will need to be further analysed and examined in practice. Otherwise, there was a lot of talk about the key problems and challenges of Slovenian agriculture. One is definitely the price. I'll tell you a comparison that I've highlighted several times. If in the Slovenian countryside a kilogram of potatoes, 10 eggs and a litre of milk cost as much as the main or in larger towns one beer, then there is a lot of wrong in this country. There is a lot wrong with price relations, and there are many things wrong with us consumers who are not willing to pay as much as they are worth for a good Slovenian quality product. And, of course, the lady for such a thing, which has grown in vegetable plants without a gram of land, as much as for quality homemade fruit and vegetables. Self-sustainment was mentioned. That's right. We're falling too fast. We may not have very large areas for grain production, but Slovenia is still important and appropriate for fruit and vegetable production. Even in the livestock sector, where at least in some sectors we achieve self-sustainment, there has been enough and there are still a number of intervention measures that can be used to upgrade grassland and grassland. We built Slovenians and Slovenians, and on the other hand, we left too much to heal. These are our key challenges, but we will have to talk about this with another minister. This law, which we are considering today, is of a considerable financial nature. Therefore, the presence and representation of the government are as it is. But about four or three hours ago, we sat down and spoke with agricultural minister Dejan Jedan. He's committed himself to supporting this amendment. I must say that for Slovenian rurals and agriculture it is good, and above all it will be an effective minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Weber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. In the debate, I would like to explain some of the other statements that have been given that the income position of farmers in Slovenia is poorer because the government is led by this coalition and because Borut Pahor is the Prime Minister of the Government. I can say very loudly that the President of the Government has met with all non-governmental organisations precisely to try to find out directly from them what is what we need to do in Slovenian agriculture to improve the situation in agriculture and what Slovenia can do on its own. It is obvious, however, that in the partial report addressed by the 2009 Committee on Agriculture on the State of Agriculture and Forestry, that this is due to the functioning of this Government, but it is indeed something that we cannot accept.If Slovenia were such economic and financial world powers in order to cause an economic and financial crisis, then I could believe it. However, I think that we can all realistically assess that Slovenia is not such an economic and financial ruler that it could cause an economic global crisis. As a result of the global economic crisis, which reflected in Slovenia and also in agriculture, the income situation of farmers deteriorated in 2009. Prices have fallen, the income situation of the population has also decreased. All of this is reflected in agricultural revenues. That is why the Government has taken these measures. One secretary has already presented that the cadastral income has fallen by 35%. One such measure that has been taken is also excise duty on petroleum derivatives used on farms for their activities. This was also one of the concrete measures by which we reduced the burden of agricultural economies due to the economic and financial crisis. The fact that this government or this minister is on average being said to be responsible for the deterioration of the income situation in agriculture in 2009, of course, is not true. We maintain all those payments coming from both the EU and the public budget so that agricultural activities can be carried out in rural areas and wherever these agricultural areas are suitable for processing. With this law we abolish, once again, overburdened small farms, small agricultural households that paid income tax which they did not receive. The flat-rate amount of income attributed to them was so high that it exceeded the actual subsidy they received for their agricultural areas. We're putting an end to this law. This law is kind and necessary mainly because of small farms. And finally, these amendments and this article, which raises the limit or threshold over which bookkeeping will also have to be led, are just one way to actually get as clean data as possible, what is reasonable and when and what is not. If we are merely talking flatly about what we are taxing and what we are not doing, injustices will always occur because we do not have specific data on which we can also agree very precisely in Slovenia what tax policy we will have in the field of agriculture if you want. In such a way that this law also goes in the direction of remedying these shortcomings, these uncertainties, which open up a number of possibilities for such or different interpretations of tax burdens. I, too, wanted to stress what my colleague Saiovic has already said, that the Minister of Agriculture is aware of what we are investing today as a coalition in the form of an amendment, and that this is also the fruit of consultation with the Minister and his colleagues, that these amendments and these solutions are as coordinated and as close as possible to the needs of the farmer as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate on Article 2? [[Yeah.]] I open my application for discussion on Article 2 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Kres, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Earlier in the first debate, I failed to say what I would like to point out once again. If a farmer could account for all hours of working on a farm, all the hours spent by children, old parents, relatives at the time of the biggest season, and if he multiplied those hours by the smallest hourly position of the worker, but not by the medium-educated workforce, they would come by my frightening numbers. We're not just talking about it. If I could still account for my vacation, the regress, the kilometres associated with the work, the possible sick leave, would immediately land where we are, no change. That's a minus. Not to mention amortization for their machines. It's true, I'm sure the bookkeeping would prove it without a hitch. It is also true that these small farm incomes, even though only EUR 50 per month is this bookkeeping, should be known that these companies do not take these companies to the base for less than EUR 100. If we compared this with such a beautiful farm, a ten-acre farm, five hectares of land, five hectares of grass, a stock of 30 bulls, sells 15 each year to make a good profit of 200 euros, that would amount to 3,000 euros a year, but for bookkeeping it's already three bulls. These are difficult numbers to understand there in the field, live with these people and then explain this matter. That's what I'm trying to say. And then this farm actually comes up with the number we're talking about, the subsidy, I think it's 2 thousand and 43 euros, plus the 5,000 euros that are coming out of it, that's 7 thousand and 180 euros. That's how it goes. That's why this compromise is trapped somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! There's been a lot of talk, and I think some things have cleared up. However, the fact is that no administration is good if it is not necessary and needs to be eliminated, especially in agriculture. I applied to the debate because I was stabbed by something Mr Weber said at the beginning of the first debate, namely, well, it was a very ideological debate. I took it that way too, but there were some inaccuracies. I'll tell you what this is about. Indeed, there is no claim, a categorical claim that milk began to flow to Italy during the previous government, the Yangtze government. Mr Weber, in our area, milk has been transported to Italy since 2000, 2001. But what was the problem? Because it wasn't written about it, because we all thought that milk collected on farms in the area was going to a regional dairy shop, but it wasn't. We found out he was going to Italy. But nobody wrote about it. Now I don't know if it wasn't right or wrong or not wanted to, but that doesn't mean the milk didn't go to Italy if it didn't start four years ago. This does not mean that the facts were not such that the Italians received our milk 10 years ago. Mr. Weber, that's proven, that's for sure, but that's not what we're talking about. It's the same thing as putting someone under the water and putting them in the water, I'd say, "that's not what's here." Yeah, sure, if we don't see him, but that doesn't mean he's not there. It's just where you're not supposed to be. And if he's not visible, that doesn't mean there's no problem. I volunteered to tell you that I am no longer convinced that this law is so good because it is a bunch of laws, a bunch of measures taken by this government that do not hold, do not drink water. The measures that some have taken are not all of them, but some of them, but unfortunately under this Government, which have even come so far as to involve the unions and to save the director of their company. I'm not quite sure this marriage is as good as you introduced it. So I wanted to tell you that if you are operating on such data as you said, I am not saying that you wanted to deceive, as you said, that milk began to drive to Italy during the time of the previous Government, that this is not true that it was before the previous and previous government. It's been happening for at least ten years. If you operate and place your actions on claims like yours, then the measures can't be held, they won't be taken. And most of the measures that have been implemented over the last two years have not been taken. That's why I wanted to tell you. But I'm not saying that you wanted to cheat, but the fact was that at the end of the day, milk has been going to Italy for at least ten years. I will support the amendment we have proposed. As for the law, I will also consider whether there will be sufficient strong arguments and enough confidence in supporting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek. [[advertising from the hall]] Were you named Mr. Weber? Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you, Chairman. Regarding milk exports to Italy, I believe that it has happened before and that farmers have always been resourceful. It is right to take advantage of any opportunity to survive more than at home for those litres of milk. However, in such quantities as has really been the case in the previous term, it has never happened before. That's why we need to find out. I also know because we had an inappropriate attitude towards our food processing industry. There was talk about who would be the bigger owner, who would be the more important owner. Would they not even destroy Ljubljana’s dairy in Slovenia in order to have less dairy and to take over the other dairy market? All of this resulted in the fact that dairy enterprises in Slovenia have become uncompetitive and have not been able to provide farmers with as much purchase price of milk as they would otherwise have if they operated healthyly and had support in their domestic policies to expand their market, achieve as much income as possible and are as strong as possible in the negotiations as possible for traders. Here is the chain that was essentially interrupted in Slovenia because there was no discussion about the management, but there was talk of ownership. This is the problem that has led to more and more milk going from Slovenia in the last period abroad. However, in the long term, I hope that we all agree, but this is devastating for Slovenian agriculture and for the Slovenian food and processing industry. For those who control Slovenia from the outside will also put Slovenian agriculture on the sidelines and protect their own at the first moment they can do so. We can't let that happen. This has been the case in this agricultural policy, which has been implemented, even in the previous mandate. We have to stop these things. I hope that we can bring together so much power that we can raise our food-processing industry to a level that it will have more added value and that it will also be able to raise the purchase price of milk in Slovenia. This is the challenge of these efforts in Slovenia. This law, which is before us today, and also this amendment and this article, which we are talking about very widely, is really good for Slovenian farmers, for households on farms. That's why it makes sense to support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I can agree with my predecessor that in the past period, in the processing industry or in the processing industry, it was mainly property, not management, that I agree. Like, I know very well, even being a co-op of poultry ptuj myself. Twenty years ago, a significantly higher share of income was received by a co-oper than we do today because the management buys Mercury. I don't know what it is. Even the evening was bought in Peru, it's property and they're exploiting cooperatives, very much. Look, Madam Secretary of State, in agriculture we should tax extra earnings on crops, but these are not farms. Farmers don't collect extra profits. Shops at the expense of farmers' stings and store them in some places. When it comes to the case of milk, do you think it is normal for an Italian buyer to buy Slovenian milk with higher transport costs than Slovenian dairy, from the farmer and back to bring in crops that are cheaper than Slovenian dairy? Of course, here you think about ownership and the price wall, and then the enormous supplement is added to the merchants and those extra profits, but this red orange authority of course is not trying to tax and prevent. Because they own partly on behalf of your option, I'm sure. Support the sale of Slovenian milk to the Slovenian processor and it will be cheaper for the consumer and everyone will be able to survive with this. This can be done if there are fair relations here and if they are fairly taxed. In this marriage, you didn't think of this solution as a small farmer. Forget it, prevent it and demagogue it. Then we would make a law that would extraly reduce the taxation of a small farmer, very small. He's reduced that he'll survive, not that it's getting taller. Today, it must be pointed out that Jews in energy have learned the problem. Orange tsunami is an energy problem. In agriculture there is a red-orange tsunami problem, red-orange exploitation. That's the main problem. This tax policy and the current law are not trying to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendments to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Likar, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. With the amendment to Article 5, we want to ensure that the tax is paid by those engaged in agricultural or forestry activities. Not everyone who lives at the same address. For example, if I say someone owns a farm of 40 hectares and someone else lives at the same address, they may be related, but they may not have a hectare of land or more than 200 euros of cadastral income. The income or tax base will be determined by imputing a proportionate part of the total income. So in this case, half to one, half to the other. But I don't see the connection between ownership, one that doesn't deal with agricultural activity, but it does own a hectare of land. And I see no reason why this tax burden would be shared in proportion to half. We propose that taxes may also be applied in proportion to those of the natural or community of natural persons engaged in agricultural activities. I will therefore support this amendment, which is the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 5? No, no, no. Then we move on to Article 12. We have three amendments here. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 12 and the amendments to this Article. The word has Mr. Webber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. However, in Article 12 and the amendments to Article 12, it is necessary to stress what was also evident in the introduction to the President of the Government that his statement that we will not raise tax burdens is not true. For 2010, in this Article and in these amendments, these words of the President shall not be legally enforced if you wish. In fact, the tax situation will not deteriorate for anyone. Those who are obliged under this law to pay income from actual income will also be able to choose between the limits that will be more favourable for them. So they will not have to pay the actual income tax if the flat-rate amount that has been the basis has been more favourable to them so far. At the same time, I have already said, let's reduce the tax burden mainly on small farms, which, because of the flat rate, had a disproportionately higher tax base than we would have deserved. This amendment, which we are also making, in order to include 70% of other revenues as a basis for calculating income, we are actually reducing this amount to 50%, thus improving the situation and the starting point for taxation of agricultural holdings or agricultural households, if you wish. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. As far as agriculture is concerned, 2010 will certainly be more favourable in terms of tax burdens than it has been before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u211	We estimate that it is not right that these compensatory payments, payments for the loss of revenue, go to the income base. We have therefore tabled these amendments to take these payments from the income base for agricultural and forestry activities. With these averages and possibly, Comrade Janko, just to help, to replicate nothing, it is on average so far that the farmers who had larger areas have been particularly affected by them as subsidies. This has happened in both small and large farmers. It is also true that large farmers usually apply subsidies to food growers for all areas. That's in that part of what was said before. On the other hand, we think it would be right that the basis for this is an appropriate cadastral income, that the cadastral income will finally be settled in real terms, and that it will be brought into line annually with the agricultural situation. Surely, even in these years, the cadastral income should finally be reduced, as it has not been coordinated for several years, despite the fact that we all know that the income situation of farmers has decreased. I welcome this amendment made by the coalition. However, I estimate that it would be truly fair to farmers if these compensatory payments were not included in the income base.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State Mrs Vraničar has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Article 12 of the bill refers to the determination of the tax base and the assessment of income for 2010. In this provision, we allow taxable persons whose reduced burden would be to maintain the current regime to maintain the current regime of imputation of the average amount of income received from agricultural policy measures for 2010. Taxpayers, to whom the current system constitutes an unfair tax, because it imposes an burden on them or increases their tax base by the amount of income they have not received, are allowed to apply a more favourable tax regime by 2010. For these reasons, I cannot agree that the law has an adverse retroactive impact on the tax regime in 2010, as mentioned in one of the introductory explanations. With regard to the amendments, I must find that the government amendments or the government proposal in no way interferes with the exemption of income from those agricultural policy measures which do not qualify as income subsidies. Therefore, all those payments, either as investment subsidies or as subsidies for production under difficult production conditions, remain exempt from income payments. However, the proposed amendment not to include all agricultural subsidies or all agricultural policy revenue in the tax base means that a large part of the income achieved by Slovenian farms would not be included in the tax base. If we compare or want to ensure the appropriate horizontal fairness of taxation of the income of natural persons, we cannot agree to such a solution. We also estimate that, given this possibility of choice by individual taxpayers, no one would have been saved or any better could have been implemented if they had adopted an amendment under order number 3, whereby only 10% of the income actually received from agricultural policy measures would have been included in the tax base. This would mean a significant reduction in tax burdens in relation to the current situation for the transitional period of 2010, while the government proposal and the amendment of the coalition parties are trying to redistribute the tax burden accordingly rather than introducing additional burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 12 and the amendments? Yes, I can see the hands, so I'm reopening my application for debate. Check-in is on. Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u215	In only one sentence, Madam Secretary, accounting categories: income, costs, income. And you're talking about equal pay as income. However, it is about covering losses, deficits, where income is negative if there were no such compensatory payments. It is not that farmers with crops would have covered production costs and would have received some additional income from compensatory payments, but rather that it is about covering income losses because prices on the market are lower than costs. The report also made by the Agricultural Institute for 2009 and discussed by the Committee is very clear on the income situation of Slovenian farmers. There is also a different interpretation as to whether 50 % of the income of compensatory payments is some kind of exemption for a farmer, or whether it is 50 % tax or income tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I think that this definition of subsidies is still a fundamentally wrong term in the public eye. Most of us think of ourselves as a "subsidy" to give farmers something. However, this is about getting this difference in the form of a subsidy or in compensatory payments, as we call it, so that we all have cheaper food. Therefore, we cannot compare the subsidy with personal remuneration, but it is the company's income or the farm. If part of these revenues from other incomes must already be included in the tax base, it is said, from the subsidy basis, then in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose to include this at 10%, because the rest is the costs that burden the farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss this article and the amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] We move on to Article 13, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. The decision on the amendments will be made in accordance with the review of the amendments you received on the bench. First, I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 1, where we have only one amendment under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Luka? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the amendment to Article B1. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 2 – to the vote on the first amendment. If adopted, the amendment to this Article under numbers 2 and 3 will be irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u219	Your Honor! The vote of this amendment is necessary to defend the Slovenian farmer against the orange-red tsunami. This tsunami is very dangerous. The workers of Energy have learned that there is an orange tsunami, there is an orange tsunami at work, and there is a great danger. But for a farmer, the orange-red tsunami is the most dangerous. If we vote on this amendment, then we will defend the Slovenian farmer against the orange-red tsunami. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you. Are there any more hands? I see an interest in explaining the voice on my behalf. I'm opening the application. Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I am confident that Slovenian farmers will be as able to decide and judge for themselves when and in which case the tax base will be determined on the basis of actual income or actual expenditure or on the basis of average taxation. This is based on cadastral income. I will therefore support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which enforces the situation as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, on his own behalf. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Nigga. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Mlakar. [[He's quitting.]] We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 64 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under Article 3 is irrelevant. There's no explanation. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 24 votes to 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the third amendment to this Article, under number 3. An explanation? [[It's not.]] We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 5, where we only have one amendment. So we're going to vote on this amendment under number one. There's no explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 12, to a vote on the first amendment under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments to this Article under numbers 2 and 3 are irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under number 2 to this article. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 is irrelevant. There's no explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This makes the third amendment irrelevant. We move on to Article 13, where we have two amendments. We shall first vote on the amendment under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under number 2 is irrelevant. An explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment under number 2 to this article. An explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since two amendments have been adopted from among the amendments, I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Here you go, Mr. President, a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u223	On behalf of the Group of Members, I declare that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will table amendments for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u224	As the qualified proposer will propose an amendment to the third reading, I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue on Tuesday after the final vote. However, amendments may be tabled until the beginning of the third hearing. I hereby adjourn the 22nd meeting of the convention, which will be resumed on Friday, 19. 11 o'clock, 10 o'clock. I am informing you, however, that there will be no votes on Friday, as we will do them on Tuesday after Tuesday's final discussions on Tuesday's points. Thank you for your participation and cooperation. I wish everyone a good night.
