ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Victory by Jelinčič Noblemeniti, Josef Jerovšek, Rudolf Petan, Villa Trofenik, Only Bevk from 12-18:00 and Tadej Slapnik from 15:00 onwards. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 39. On the day-to-day basis, this is the debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question of the Magi's mission by Borut Pahor. Worked food in connection with the sale of state property. At its 19th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that Prime Minister Borut Pahor put to the question of mags. Joyful Žereva in connection with the sale of state property. I give my word to Mr. Mag. A crane to further explain the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 12 July this year, on the basis of many contributions and articles on the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in the media, I asked the Prime Minister of the Government a question on the government's strategy for the sale of state property and on investments of special or strategic importance. Among other things, I also had in mind the New Ljubljana Bank and a public debate on its necessary recapitalisation. In his reply, the Prime Minister presented two options – whether to recapitalise NLB from the state budget or through the entry of a new strategic partner. His reply, however, seriously concerned me in his work when he said that Slovenia alone could not finance its own development and that he felt that it would be welcome for the entry of a strategic partner into the NLB for our national benefits. At this point the opinions of many differ both within the coalition and within the framework of the opposition and in the various banking and financial experts. It's a very important strategic decision, and even if you want, a political decision. And it is right that we tell ourselves honestly in this place today what we feel about each other and others. At the request of the SLS Group of Members of Parliament of 1 July, an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance had already been convened twice, at which, unfortunately, we wanted to discuss the future of our largest bank. However, the meeting or the point at which we discussed this was postponed twice because of the non-participation of two of the three ministers and you, Prime Minister of the Government. I am pleased, however, that we have adopted a decision at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing that until the adoption of the capital investment management strategy it does not reduce the direct or indirect ownership stake in the New Ljubljana Bank. I also hope, because of all of this, that today, however, you will ensure the presence of the President-in-Office of the Government until the end of this debate. Let me say, therefore, that in the Slovenian People's Party we oppose the sale of state direct and direct shares of the bank or recapitalisation in a way that would lose the country's current share. We are also opposed to allowing a foreign strategic partner into our economy and development through recapitalisation. It's the story we've already seen. From a slave born into a slave raised, I'd say. It's not all gold, you know what happens out there on the outside. It's not just the biggest Slovenian bank. This is about Slovenian identity, confidence, our future and economic and financial independence. Therefore, in addition to how the bank is managed, it is also important who owns it and who runs its business policy in our national space. But more about this further. So let the debate begin. I would like to give the government today a clear signal that ownership in our largest Slovenian bank is strategically important for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr President of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! This government has taken one of the important measures, namely that it places corporate governance on professional grounds. On this basis, a new country's capital investment management strategy will also be available here. This management must be transparent and must be effective. In any case, this will make the country a better host of these investments. However, let it be those investments that we will choose to be of such a nature, that the country has a long-term strategic ownership interest, or that they are of a portfolio nature that can be sold on the market. What is important is that in any case, regardless of the decision, in particular if it withdraws, it must withdraw in a fully transparent and visible manner. But if he stays, he must be a good master. I am confident that together we will be able to determine properly what investments are of a strategic nature and what investments are of such a nature that it is more useful for the country to sell them. One of the criteria for assessing whether or not the country has a long-term ownership interest is certainly the return on investment. It is my view that not all investment can be strategic and that we cannot infinitely owe and burden future generations with a debt to maintain investment without thoroughly and professionally examining what is good for the country or not. What the Member of Parliament has said is true, I remain in this assessment. Slovenia, as a small and open economy, lacks its own financial resources for its own development. However, I do not think it would be cost-effective to insist that it can only develop as much as it is allowed by its own financial resources. We are entangled in a modern world and in this modern world there are many measures and other methods to finance our own development. To move overheated emotions about this discussion. The Government has not yet adopted any strategy or decision or decision on the sale of assets that would exceed the sale programme for the period of the budgets adopted. More. Due to the financial market situation in 2010, we did not make any sales of state investments. Now to the last and most important dilemma raised by the Member of Parliament, he comments on my answer to his question, ownership of the New Ljubljana Bank. My proposal is not to exclude it from the context of putting it in the context of the country's strategic investment policy. To assess whether and why, if the country has a long-term strategic, ownership interest in the New Ljubljana Bank or to assess whether this financial institution has such a character that, with the possible entry of a third partner or another partner, a strategic partner can give a new impetus to new banking and financial products. The State can only decide to increase ownership in the New Ljubljana Bank by further incurring and thus burdening future generations if there are professional and other reasons for this to be confirmed by the National Assembly and the Government. My answer and contribution to this discussion is in the direction of wanting to see all decisions in the context of understanding that you will finally accept them as a strategy here in the National Assembly, that the New Ljubljana Bank will not be excluded from this context and that it will be reconsidered whether we will give them to recapitalise taxpayers' money, whether this money could be spent better on other investments or whether we will assess that the New Ljubljana Bank is of such importance that it must remain in majority state ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the Minister, the co-workers and you, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the sale of state property, our management of it, is certainly always in place. Therefore, I think it is good that we are also discussing this strategic decision today. However, it is important to say and point out that, in the case of sales of state property or capital investments, it is appropriate to point out at the outset that no relevant decision has been taken once again. As everyone is aware, the sale of state property requires first confirmation in this House, and this is a basic and simple fact. As already explained by the President of the Government in July, we adopted a long time ago an important law on the management of capital investments, which establishes an agency whose primary task is to prepare a strategy for the management of all capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. This strategy is not completed, it is not yet fully ready, so it is difficult to discuss the decisions already taken with regard to specific actions in individual capital investments. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that any discussion on the sale of state property, especially those concerning the issue of possible sale or recapitalisation of the largest Slovenian bank, is certainly welcome if it is guided by good, sincere intentions. Therefore, the debate on the question of the Member State, as was the case with the proposalr's own question, is mainly understood at this moment as the discussion on the situation around the New Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we firmly believe that the discussion of this largest bank must be linked in particular to how to make this bank as quickly as possible an effective, more efficient and more responsive to the global financial and capital markets. For a long time there has been a desire, and there is also a lot of talk that the New Ljubljana Bank must become a regional player, which was done to express itself very kindly, much too little. Therefore, in our view, in the first step, it is necessary to decide whether we really want to have a strong NLB as a regional player, and, of course, we are also willing to make appropriate moves for this, or whether we want a state-owned bank just because we can say that it is owned by the state and we all feel better. However, we must first answer the question whether we want to have a regional strong bank or just an exhibition of a bigger bank. And the key question needs to be answered is whether we are looking for a long-term solution or are looking for a short-term solution. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we look not only at ownership through the glasses that see the country from which the owner comes, but more importantly at what kind of owner it is and how well the management structure is able to establish in a relatively short time what its objectives are and what its behaviours are. Surely we have learned a lot in these years, and one thing holds for sure: that someone owns the home, just because he owns the home, does not always lead to the best solutions. Sometimes, practice teaches us the opposite. That is why the fear of globalisation in this world is certainly too great for us. It certainly doesn't matter who owns it. To put it simply, the good side of the state-owned bank is to ensure greater stability and security of the banking and financial system, and the bad side is that there is still a policy involved in the state-owned bank and it can potentially influence business decisions, which is certainly well known for business results. In addition to the fundamental ownership dilemmas, in our view, the bank also needs a thorough reorganisation. Perhaps a less formal and more development-oriented strategy, which is then implemented in practice. However, it is also necessary to establish a management responsible for the basic tasks of the bank, which is, above all, effective support for the economy and the population, and we have seen this well at the time of the recession and the economic crisis. And here it also showed on one side the difference between banks that are in majority Slovenian ownership and between banks that are in foreign ownership, because all foreign banks have substantially stopped lending before Slovenian ownership, which was bad for our economy. As far as recapitalisation is concerned, however, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we feel that if we decide on it, and this is necessary in the opinion of the Administration, that we do not burden the sovereign debt and that this kind of recapitalisation should be carried out through the conversion of deposits that the State has imposed in the New Ljubljana Bank. Since we need to think in the long term as a country, in our view it is necessary to include a strategic partner in the recapitalisation, a strong financial institution with knowledge, management experience and, above all, development, development of this bank into a strong financial actor in our Balkan and wider European space. The recapitalisation by a foreign partner alone is not acceptable in our opinion, as we will lose a premium that we can certainly acquire and cash ourselves if we decide to do better. With a strong strategic partner who will be able to provide independent, professional and efficient operations, we can place the bank on a stock exchange within a few years, where shares that are not necessary for effective control can also be successfully resold. In any event, in the long term, we must maintain a control share of 25% + 1 stock in such an important bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Mr President of the Government, with a ministerial team and co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! An oral question to the President of the Government was raised regarding the sale of state property. In fact, it concerned information on the Government's intentions, on the sale of State property and on the decision on strategic investments and on the fate of State ownership of NLB. And apparently, to some extent, matters have been excluded from the context, as the President of the Government has pointed out in his presentation earlier that his proposal is not to exclude matters from the context. In view of the question raised on the sale of capital investments, fellow Member Zerjav was unable to obtain it because the capital investment management strategy is not yet in place. This is why a decision has been taken by the Social Democrats' Group, on the basis of which the Finance Committee proposes to the Government not to reduce the country's direct and indirect equity share in NLB until the capital investment management strategy is adopted, because we believe that the existing direct and indirect share of the State in NLB needs to be maintained even after the adoption of the capital share management strategy. With regard to the question of the recapitalisation of NLB, the question was raised as to the preservation of the State's share in NLB and the ways of recapitalisation. Of course, the President of the Government could not give an answer on the recapitalisation because there was no proposal for recapitalisation. It was also unable to comment on the purpose of the other owners of the bank with regard to cooperation on recapitalisation. As a result, the issue was still premature. In view of the fact that the Supervisory Board will propose the recapitalisation of NLB, it is necessary to respond to the extent to which the State will participate in this recapitalisation. The non-cooperation of the State in the recapitalisation would mean a reduction in the share of the State in the NLB, which would in fact mean the acquisition of NLB by the NCBs or any other investor. However, the Group of Social Democrats does not defend the acquisition of NLB by foreign banks because of the risk of foreign majority ownership of banks, which was pointed out by the Prime Minister himself in response to his colleague Zerjav's question in response to the fact that a wave of maternal exhaustion took place in Western Europe in 2009. Therefore, a capital investment management strategy and a banking strategy should be prepared to prevent the risk of a link between foreign ownership of banks and financial stability. Until the strategy is ready, however, we can rely on the experience of foreign countries regarding bank ownership mainly during the financial crisis and on data on bank operations in Slovenia. In fact, the financial crisis has shown how important banks are in financing economic development, i.e. promoting the economy. The banks are in fact the backbone of the economy, and therefore there is a clear difference between the old developed EU members and the new EU members. The old EU members have maintained most of the banking system at home because they are aware of the importance of the banking system for financing the economic development of their country. The new members, with the exception of Slovenia, have left the banking market to foreigners and the financial crisis has revealed the weaknesses of foreign ownership. In fact, it is a question of the link between foreign ownership of banks and financial stability. Slovenia maintained full control of the financial stability of most of the financial system with current ownership of NLB and NKBM. This avoided the risk exposure posed by a high share of the presence of foreign banks in the banking system during the financial crisis. In the event of a reduction of the State's shares in NLB and NKBM, Slovenia would lose its power to maintain financial stability, as this would transfer key supervisory powers from Slovenia to the country of the majority foreign owner of those banks. However, if NLB, for example, becomes a branch or subsidiary of a cross-border banking group, the management powers of liquidity management, risks and assets of a bank are transferred to a foreign mother bank and part of the supervision of NLB from the Bank of Slovenia to a supervisor abroad, which means an increase in the risk of crisis in the future. There are arguments and evidence to explain why the increased penetration of foreign banks can be linked to instability. For example, foreign banks can take advantage of the government's fear that many banks will fail at the same time and choose portfolios that are similar to those large domestic financial companies, thus increasing the likelihood of the crisis. The risk associated with cross-border banking also stems from the possibility that the shock on the capital of the cross-border bank will consequently reduce loans to businesses and consumers at locations far from the source of shock. This has also happened, as the Prime Minister of the Government has already pointed out, when the American banks of mothers and mothers in the West reduced their speculative investments by suspending the reprogramming of short-term loans in countries where these foreign banks are responsible. As a result, the crisis in foreign-owned countries was actually greater than in the domestic-owned countries of the banks. Other authors' analyses have also shown that the existence of international capital markets with branches of foreign banks contributes to the international spread of domestic liquidity shocks to the lending of branches abroad. As a result, a study by the author of the European Central Bank showed that, during the financial crisis, businesses in domestic banks in Slovenia were less limited than companies in countries such as the Czech Republic and Romania, where a large part of the banking market was owned by a relatively sub-capitalised Erste Group and the UniCredit Group. This is direct evidence of the global transfer of financial distress in a relatively early stage of the financial crisis in a way that is not linked to the demand for credit in local markets. If we focus solely on NLB's operations, we find that in the first half of the year, NLB has made a profit before its reservation of EUR 123.8 million. However, the loss is due to reservations or impairments of the credit portfolio. Nevertheless, NLB’s gross loans to the non-bank sector increased by EUR 109.4 million in the first half of 2010, in the household segment by EUR 72.7 million and the economy by EUR 48.8 million. Only state loans have been reduced. In 2009, NLB increased its balance sheet total by 7 % to 56.19 % of GDP, which means that NLB remains an important economy funder under the current NLB governance policy, which can be changed by reducing the country's share of NLB. In lending companies, however, there are worrying data from Banka Slovenije, which in 2010 show a reduction in loans from banks that are in majority foreign ownership. Only the latest data from Banka Slovenije show that the net volume of loans to non-financial corporations has decreased for the third consecutive month. Banks in majority foreign ownership contributed EUR 75 million in June and EUR 15 million in July, which net lending to this group of borrowers decreased by EUR 52 million in June and EUR 66 million in July 2010. The last report on the implementation of the guarantee scheme also notes that banks in majority foreign ownership have directed business policies to keep market shares by focusing on crediting households, while in the business sector lending is limited to the highest quality creditors. State ownership of NLB and NKBM ensured financial stability and confidence during the financial crisis. This could not be ensured by the fact that it was solved by the Belgian State itself with double aid totalling EUR 7 billion and would not be able to save the NLB in case it needed to do so. Given that NLB successfully completed the stress test without any recapitalisation, it points to a financially stable bank. As a result, the capital investment management strategy and the banking strategy must respond to the issue of financial stability in relation to the ownership of the country in banks where the country is the largest owner. The strategy must also prevent the negative consequences of the relocation, of liquidity shocks from foreign countries to Slovenia, which is possible only with the majority share of the country in NLB and NKBM. The Bank of Slovenia must also maintain its overall supervisory function over NLB and NKBM, which would be lost if they became branches or subsidiaries. In doing so, Slovenia would in fact lose control of its financial stability. This, we are sure, is not what we want in Slovenia, but we are also in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Minister or Minister, Dear Fellows and Fellows! I am very sorry that some coalition parliamentary groups, as well as opposition groups, have identified one deficit in this country, which is a deficit following the financial sector's development strategy or, whatever you call it, the country's capital investment management strategy. It is true how to act in emergency measures to stabilise the financial sector in the country if we do not have a defined strategy for the development of the financial sector. The government, as an important owner of key state banks, New Ljubljana Banks, New Maribor Credit Banks and some other smaller ones, does not even know what the long-term development challenges faced by the owner in relation to these banks are. And so I ask the Prime Minister first, he will later have a word on behalf of the largest parliamentary group, how he personally sees the midterm development of the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Maribor Credit Bank, what will be the ownership structure in three or five years, as he leads this government. If we get this answer, then there will also be a clear answer to the question raised by fellow Member Radovan Žerjav, what will happen to the ownership structure of this bank. If we do not have a response to the development of the financial sector in this country, we cannot have an answer to this question as to what will be the future ownership structure. I believe that if the government takes the lead in this ambition to make or map a capital investment management strategy, the Prime Minister must have a position on this issue today. And I'm interested in that position. I am also interested in the position of the Minister for Development and the Minister for Finance if their positions are not entirely uniform. I have to say, I have a feeling that they're not united. In the past, the opposition has defined in some other times how it sees the development of the financial system and also, in particular, the New Ljubljana Bank in the future. We have defended the majority state ownership and a strong strategic partner, and things have changed dramatically at this time. With the start of the financial economic crisis, new challenges have been placed before the New Ljubljana Bank, the entire financial system and the government. At that time, that thesis was also being tested, and the issue is still being tested whether State ownership in banks provides a more responsive attitude of that bank to the problems of the national economy and businesses. Many reports from Banka Slovenije, audit reports from the Court of Auditors, including cases from practice, show that Slovenian banks are, and if I specifically point out the New Ljubljana Bank here, they have failed to do so. They did not service new perspective companies, but more or less licked past wounds. They licked the wounds of missed or overdosed investments of ownership consolidation in mega construction projects and so on. So they've cleared these loans through reprograms. And that it is not only the opposition, the distinguished Prime Minister, that I can also read the conclusions of the audit report if you have not, as you have accepted them in the Government, the final account and the audit report, which says that two billion of the 2009 guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia were not adequately secured under the provisions of the Public Finance Act, to limit the effects of the financial crisis, which left EUR 1.5 billion in the New Ljubljana Bank. This means we don't even have the right insurance. And it is likely that, this is the audit report that the funds of Nova Ljubljanski banka and A to the bank obtained from the sale of bonds secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia were also used to refinance loans for managers' purchases and these so-called tycoon stories. So, even though we have written this down in the laws that we have adopted here, where it should be used, there is a high probability, as the Court of Auditors finds, that this has happened. Banks in majority state ownership have therefore used the country as a wedding to solve their own problems from a period when Mr Kramar had a major say in this loan allocation, with one million reward for the fact that the bank's funds were also directed towards these or, in particular, these controversial projects. What does the Bank of Slovenia report note? Banka Slovenije's report notes that banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka, have been mainly engaged in the refinancing of these loans over the past period and have neglected promising enterprise projects, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. The Bank of Slovenia notes this, not just the opposition. Therefore, we rightly wonder in the opposition whether, during the financial and economic crisis, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the other state-owned banks justified our belief that, in difficult times, they would follow national interests more than foreign commercial banks or more than commercial banks, which are privately owned. I am practically sure that it was not because the banks were and are the majority state-owned political sandstones of the ruling elites or, rather, those elites who set up the key management bodies of the bank. Data, let's say that there are 100 individual contracts in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, that 100 people belong to such and different privileges, are of course only an illustration of the fact that it is a sandstone, where it is played according to the rules of elites rather than the rules of need for an effective financial service to the economy and households. Therefore, the national interest is not that we have a known, sworn owner who is in love with us, but of course it is necessary and essential that national interest in the financial sector, as well as the largest Slovenian banks, is an effective and strong financial service to the economy and households. Only through this criterion can it be assessed whether a bank meets the expectations of citizens or not. Citizens are not just ruling elites, citizens are all who expect a service from this bank. There is now a major problem, given that we have not heard in your opening statement today, what you are personally advocating, Mr President of the Government, about the future strategy for the development of the financial sector in connection with the bank. Of course, all the partners in this bank are even more confused. The country is significantly less than 50% of the owners here, there is a whole bunch of state-owned enterprises here, and because of the lack of a strategy, it can happen that some state-owned company will also sell this investment in order to solve its own situation. Unless there are instructions to these companies that this should not be sold. But why are there these guidelines if the capital investment management strategy is not adopted and, of course, also the financial sector development strategy. I think that we should in particular draw up a strategy for the development of the financial sector, which is only part of the capital investment management strategy in the financial sector. Development is much more than just investment management. In these changed circumstances we should probably review old documents, old concepts, upgrade them with new knowledge, including your own development concepts, and put them on the table. I was very naive and optimistic that this debate, which was also encouraged by the opposition or specifically by Member Radovan Žerjav, would also respond in Parliament and confront certain visions and concepts. I am pleased that here my predecessor from Liberal Democracy has already said that ownership is not what is an axiom, but that the more impact of this financial sector is important. We have heard from the Social Democrats that they are undoubtedly in favour of protecting state property in this bank. You have heard from the Slovenian Democratic Party that the national interest is an effective and strong service to the economies and households and that the ownership structure depends on who provides it most optimally. There is one gruesome task ahead of you to solve this bank in terms of capital adequacy and the replacement of existing hybrid instruments with new, stronger instruments, which the taxpayers will surely be able to afford, according to the New Ljubljana Bank's estimates, strong over half a billion euros in a relatively short period of time. This year's something, something else in the years to come, and probably in the long run, it can also be strong over a billion. If there is no strategy for the development of the financial sector, it is also difficult to plan future investments and recapitalisation in this bank. So once again, let's face the concepts, tell us how you see this, and probably the answer to the question sent will be easier. I wonder at what time we can expect this capital investment management strategy, or better than we suggest, a financial sector development strategy. We have a strategic partner in the New Ljubljana Bank and the strategic partner doesn't really know what to say, because we don't know what to tell him in the future how we see this bank. And you probably have to have the answer to the question. If this concept applies that a country with connected persons will not go below 50%, then it is necessary to know what will happen if these strategic partners withdraw from this bank and probably the fate of the bank will be only on taxpayers, not too disproportionate, given the current ownership structure. And there's something else I want to know. If we are now looking at the ownership structure of the New Ljubljana Bank, it can be found that the country is directly below 50, that state-owned companies are somewhere up to 48, 49, and that we then even have a bunch of funds that are in the management of state-owned enterprises or that the state has a majority in the operators, and that the takeover law does not consider them related persons. Domestically, these fund managers are likely to operate linked to the country when they make decisions at the Assembly. It's only with them that the state has something in 50. This ownership structure is also not likely to be a story that is valid and should be upgraded or modified. So I want to know how you can see this, too, because this is not the problem of this bank, and we could probably list some of these problems. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it would be a great result of this debate in Parliament, that, on the basis of our views, you will also develop as quickly as possible a strategy for the development of the financial sector, which will not only cover NLB and New Credit Bank Maribor, but also all other state investments and development policies of other banks and, of course, insurance companies as well as others. Therefore, we will listen with attention to your debate and to the upgrading of the answer in the light of what has been heard so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Your Honor! In response to the question at the July meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the Government reiterated by then the view expressed that the New Ljubljana Bank needs recapitalisation if it is to become a successful and strong player in the regional area and that consultations are being held on how to recapitalise. He also explained that it was his personal opinion, since he believes that the entry of a strategic partner who has a long-term desire for long-term relations and wants the bank as a starting point for strengthening the banking share in the region would be welcome to our national benefits. He added that he was prepared to consult openly and publicly on this issue and that the Government had not yet taken a decision. In the Parliamentary Group, we point out that for us there is a public and political debate on the possible recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, by mentioning a multitude of reasons that are often in denial, and which have continued to change since this summer, such as the expansion to the markets of South-Eastern Europe, Basel-3, the results of stress tests and so on, in particular by stating the necessary level of recapitalisation resources, this is between EUR 250 and 500 million, at this point premature, and particularly poorly justified. There is no better way to discuss and guess whether to sell the New Ljubljana Bank or not. At this time, no one sells larger equity shares in banks, prices are generally low. This may not be the case with speculators and intermediaries promising a share of the takeover premium in ownership consolidations. That is why this kind of discussion is mainly a reflection of how we represent responsible ownership and the management of our largest bank in Slovenia, both in the political sphere and in the professional public. Insurmountable. State ownership is not necessarily bad, nor is it necessarily good, depending primarily on the state as owner. The interests of the State are not merely the interests of the rulings, and the interests of the parties in power cannot become the interests of the State. We are reminded of this by the operation of Luke Koper, Hita, Telekom and could also count, companies mostly state-owned, which, due to such a special understanding of ownership, have become in difficulty. Sometimes, and as a rule, it is more important than who owns, who runs companies or banks, capable or only those with some kind of good name. In the Parliamentary Group, we therefore stress that we are concerned about the future of the New Ljubljana Bank because it is among the banks that make up a total of 65% of the European banking sector as well as Slovenia, because it represents almost 40% of the national banking sector and, like the local majority of banks in the European Union, is facing the fact that it is rapidly undercapitalised. Many experts believe that the European banking system is fully undercapitalised, but at the same time banks are so closely linked that problems within one member quickly cause problems across the system. Recent experience has shown that the banking crisis can only be solved by exposing banks that are sub-capitalised. These banks should then be restructured or this possibility exists, and it is serious, it is legitimate, they should be provided with State aid if they are unable to raise enough capital in capital markets to solve it. In the Group of Members, it is indeed recalled that the risks in the banking system have increased. The financial stability of banks in Slovenia will be negatively affected over the next two, three years by the sub-capitalisation of enterprises and the associated credit risks and the uncertain situation in the international environment, in particular or in the euro area. Therefore, it becomes crucial to what extent and to what extent the financial system will still be able to maintain resilience to shocks. In view of the reality of the banking system, it is essential to continue to see the weaknesses of the relevant items in particular and to strengthen the capital adequacy of banks. The continuation of public discussions on recapitalisation, namely the recapitalisation, the increase or reduction of the bank's equity, can, in our opinion, take place only after professional coordination has been completed and one possible solution has to be adopted in accordance with the competences. However, fundamental things cannot be guessed over the finger, speculation in this high assembly seems unworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much again for your word. Let me begin by saying just two words, which will attract half the audience to the face of a meaningful smile and from which half of the professional and quasi-professional public has been teasing and despicable for several years now. I'm talking about national interest. Although I believe that some individuals, as is obvious today, have misused this national interest for their own personal benefit from greed for their own pocket, this does not mean that national interest does not exist and that we cannot and cannot discuss it seriously and in a reasoned manner even decide on it. First of all, let us ask ourselves whether it is in the interest of Slovenia to maintain its national identity. If the answer is positive, and I think it is, the state must therefore act actively, which, of course, requires funds. Values, history with heritage and culture define our Slovenian identity. Our identity defines our interests as what we want and need. Interests, however, require activities to be carried out. However, the activities of the State may only be carried out where appropriate instruments are available. The success of maintaining state sovereignty and national identity is therefore critically dependent on the material basis for it. Since we have turned macroeconomic policy into joint implementation in Brussels, only micro-policy instruments can implement our own strategy for the application of Slovenian identity. So, with key companies, both in the real and in the financial sector, owned domestically. Why do you own it? For people who do not identify themselves with the space of Slovenia where they live, with the values and identity of the people in these premises, cannot know or understand their interests. Foreigners won't worry about our identity, I'm sure of it. Banks and insurance companies are the backbone of each economy and domestic ownership of banks is the basis of economic sovereignty in the interest of citizens to preserve Slovenian identity. No fully sovereign country, a developed country, but if you want, the old members of the European Union, the United States or Japan, has most of the leading banks in foreign ownership. Clearly, these countries have their strategic reasons or their national interests, if you wish, for the domestic control of the banking sector. For all the effects of selecting the optimal investment project to be invested by the bank, cost-benefit analysis cannot be assessed because all the effects of the projects are not measurable in numbers and because the decision on the project is a matter of future uncertainty. It follows from this that the choice of any project, despite all the mathematics of the economy, is part of arbitration. Selling banks to foreigners and expecting foreign owners to follow the wider Slovenian interests and not only the own and interests of the foreign owner's country, it is not logical, in my opinion or sense. Of course, this raises the issue of personal responsibility for management, which is another problem, much more so below. An important argument for the domestic ownership of the New Ljubljana Bank is also the preservation of a decade of accumulated information capital in the Slovenian economy, which is also one of the competitive advantages of this bank. We talk a lot about breaking into foreign markets. Domestic banks, only they will support the domestic economy in expansion in foreign markets, will provide guarantees for good work and the like. Foreign banks will certainly not do this, but will provide guarantees for their companies operating abroad. The argument of home-schooling for domestic needs is also not negligible. We all know what kind of personnel they mostly employ and we need companies in foreign ownership operating in Slovenia. Let's just see what happened to Lek. There's a lot to be said about that. And what's the opposite of the situation in Krk. For my part, in the introductory part, I will say, the political economy, because in the debate, a narrow economic view solely on the principles of pursuing the best possible business outcome cannot be the main and only criterion for deciding on such important matters as ownership of Slovenia's largest bank. There is no micro-optimism of an individual bank and can never be a whole country's macro-optimism. In order to establish itself as equal to the developed countries and not become a province on the outskirts of the European Union and to follow the steps taken by the other new members of the European Union, which have sold out banking and financial institutions, Slovenia must maintain two of its own human resources and capital resources as a material foundation. The assumption is to keep the largest bank in Slovenian ownership. Slovenia has chosen its own strategy for gradually transforming banking as the only transition countries. The selected route was even awarded the recognition of the World Bank and other international financial institutions. Of course, this did not prevent us from the consequences of the financial crisis that occurred at the end of 2008, but it still does not mean anything. Empirical research has shown that it is not true that Slovenian banking is significantly behind the banking of neighbouring developed countries. That's not true! Then why sell the bank to strangers and if you want, through recapitalisation? The arrival of foreign banks in Slovenia did not in itself bring the expected results. In the beginning they collected cream because they only joined the Slovenian banks in profit. It has only recently been shown that banks of foreign owners are more profitable, productive and economical, but due to lack of knowledge and capital it is not yet necessary to sell state banks to foreigners. Loss of ownership and thereby control of the bank happens once and for all. It also makes no sense to reduce government debt by selling the bank to foreigners, at least as long as the debt has a lower interest than the bank's return. So whether thinking about selling the bank to foreigners really only leads to lack of confidence, on the one hand, and awareness of the importance of the institution, on the other hand. Indeed, state ownership does not do any harm, of course, if the business results are good, that is, the chosen right managers who act for the benefit of the state and not for their own benefit or the benefit of a narrow circle of dedicated people. The problem can be the only non-replaceable politically motivated adjustment and replacement of managers, which quickly shows up through the average performance of the business. Maybe there's a rabbit in that bush. So what are the results of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank? I'm afraid not the best. Who's responsible for this? Nobody. Or maybe someone? We all know who was sitting in the supervisory council, we all know who led this New Ljubljana Bank. By the way, what about the millionth prize to the CEO who ran this bank? Who is responsible for paying such an amount? Who signed such a contract? The control world. Here. Has anyone been responsible from the Governing Council for this? Not according to my information yet. So we still have a number of questions about the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Is it even necessary? It's probably. What height? We don't know. Where are the reasons? We don't know. We are talking about recapitalisation from 250 million and up to 700 million euros. Are the reasons really only amended European Union rules and the maturity of certain derivatives? This was said by the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank at one of the meetings of the Finance Committee, Mr Jašovic. But he didn't touch any other important reasons, at least after my assessment. Is it possible that the reasons are also friendly loans to friends whose repayments will never be seen by Nova Ljubljanska Bank? I mean, of course, the loans that were earmarked for managers' acquisitions. The President of the Board did not discuss these reasons. Laško, Istrabenz, Mercury, Prevention, Vegrad, etc. In all these stories, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is very much present. And loans or loans, if you want, were granted by someone and someone signed under these documents. Where was the risk management of this company? Based on what documents? What documents were submitted that the bank approved these loans? It is also likely that these answers should be recovered from the new leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank and from the new supervisory board. We propose to prepare a vision or, if you wish, a strategy for the development of the banking sector or even better of the financial sector, banks and insurance companies, in accordance with the new legislation recently adopted in the National Assembly. Until then, let's stop speculating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr President of the Government also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	First of all, we probably agree that with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act, we have opened a new chapter in the country's economic thinking about our investments. This has so far diminished and has been left to the political arbitration of one government and another. Now we have decided to try to regulate the state's assets, the state's investments with smart decisions, decisions to be made by the management of the new agency. The government will adopt the proposals, give them to the National Assembly and the National Assembly will adopt them definitively. In this sense, I hope that there is some new confidence between us that in the coming months and years we will manage state investment more wisely and more successfully than ever before, less politically arbitrary, more than a successful master. The second question – it is the New Ljubljana Bank, I will give my word to others in advance. This debate also showed that there is a difference in this high house in terms of what the national interest is. Here you are Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, who say that it is necessary to retain the majority state share in the New Ljubljana Bank at all costs. If and if recapitalisation is necessary, then we must recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank from the state budget, i.e. from taxpayers' pockets. It'll cost you as much as it wants. This is our national interest, only under these conditions can we count on relying on this bank as expected by most of our people. Another point of view is that ownership is subject to the question of how and by what measures this bank should be a successful and good bank. When we answer the question of what makes this bank good and successful, the question of what kind of ownership structure is needed to ensure that this bank is good and successful. It is not necessarily for the State to remain wholly or to a large extent the owner of this bank. This is a political issue as long as this bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, is in majority state ownership, this must and should be a political issue. I would also like to understand this exercise that we are doing today in the context of what is coming in the preparation of an investment management strategy. Since it has been repeatedly asked for my opinion, let me say that it is my feeling that Slovenia needs a good and successful bank and that this ambition of the New Ljubljana Bank to become a good and successful bank, we must also address the issue of its ownership structure. If we assess that it is important for the country and for the bank and remains the majority state-owned owner, then the National Assembly will make such a decision and I will not oppose it. Personally, I allow the possibility that, for the purposes of a good and successful bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, a recapitalisation through the entry of a new partner is possible in the future, while, of course, with a 25 % equity share, we would maintain the main control over its business. This will be discussed, and I propose that it runs in the context of the strategy when it is ready for discussion in the National Assembly. In this sense, I think that we have taken one big step forward, that we are now systematically and systematically discussing these issues and that the Ljubljana Bank in this sense is no longer the subject of political arbitration, which in the past has been all too often, and has therefore, perhaps needlessly, decreased confidence in its role in the financial system at home and in the future for clients.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	Proposer. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't operate so much with taxpayers' money, because it sounds so negative, and people see that now we're all going to pay from our pockets to the New Ljubljana Bank because someone was doing some stupid things there. Before we do so, however, we should look a little bit inside the New Ljubljana Bank. However, I am not talking about us politicians, but those who are called there to do so, and have found that the New Ljubljana Bank does not, as in the economic circles, have the modern term, the business unnecessary assets, or is there really no possibility of disinvestment within the Ljubljana Bank. And then find out if this recapitalisation is really 700 million or maybe something lower. And then the decision would be much easier than it is now that we know that the recapitalisation of a terrible size is ahead. As owners of this bank, however, this could be required, and perhaps also a change in the strategy of its further development, to penetrate foreign markets in order to ensure that this bank remains in Slovenian hands. However, it is also important what will happen to all the other banks that are owned by Slovenia in one way or another, but we still have to make a strategic decision in this country. Whether per partes, i.e. by individual banks, will decide what the strategy will be, or whether we will generally set up a strategy for the development of this financial sector and say that this bank is important to us and that we will do everything and more. Maybe not for someone else. But that right at the beginning of the crisis or now during the crisis we give up the biggest Slovenian bank, the most important one, seems premature to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ljubo Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers! As we follow this debate today, and in light of the question raised by the MEP. The jury addressed to the President of the Government as basic, whether the Government has adopted any other strategy for dealing with state property, given what has been adopted in the framework of the budgetary documents, we can today bear witness to the clear position of the President of the Government that it is not so, and at the same time to the clear position of the President of the Government, which clearly predicts that, under the law adopted by the National Assembly and proposed by the Government, the title of the Capital Investment Management Act in the Republic of Slovenia will be prepared by the Government to prepare a strategy for the management of all capital investments, if we can share them in strategic and those which it will also assess as less strategic, and, of course, in this way, the Republic of Slovenia has clearly presented the concept of how it responds to this dilemma, which exists in the Slovenian space, and not only in the Slovenian space also more broadly. This, of course, refers to the fact that the Government and this coalition are very aware of this issue and not to be dealt with in a hand-to-hand manner, but are expected on the basis of a thorough analysis of the material that will address this issue in its entirety and will also be presented after a professional, broad public debate in the National Assembly, which will then be the final arbitrator of the decision on how to proceed. This, of course, was that argument, and in fact protected that there would be bad practices, and today I am convinced that there are many bad experiences in Slovenia in this area. We have also heard here today how we have exploited in the name of national interest whether this national interest has been exploited in bad practices. Here I also find it important to think on the basis of these bad experiences and also good practices on the other hand, which speak of the possibility of one and other experiences, depending on ownership of foreign property and domestic ownership. If we just look at how we dealt with employees in domestic ownership and also in foreign ownership, we can see significant differences. Here, too, I find it important to ask how the state exercises its interests where it considers them to be strategically important. Here I am sure and share my opinion with those who talk about whether we have been successful in the realization with good intentions of adopted strategies that speak in the name of national interest. Have we taken advantage of all the levers the country has had in this regard? It is very difficult to explain to people that we are playing the sandstone politically here in our personal interest because we would like to enable this country to develop in the best way possible. Of course, such a discussion in people creates a great deal of mistrust even when solutions are professionally well-supported and with professional people, who then bring about such or other insinuations, inducements to solutions that then drive such good experts away to take responsible places and thus make responsible decisions. Here we will, at least I expect by the Government, be able to face modern concepts, and I agree with those who want to have the New Ljubljana Bank as one of the examples of this capital investment management strategy as a modern, regional, development bank that will serve in the interest of both the economy and the natural persons with our deposits, so that we can be satisfied with this bank. When we are talking about ownership here today, I would not like to discuss today that the foreign owner may be the one to solve these dilemmas that we have at home. Do we have the moral capacity and the moral credits to believe that the domestic professions, the domestic people do this in the best interest of the Slovenian economy, the international development of this bank and the natural persons who have their deposits deposited in this bank? A very poor journey would be to say ownership and the related management of the New Ljubljana Bank, to be bound to the fact that we are in doubt that we are able to raise people at home and have people who are professionally qualified to implement a strategy that we will also adopt here in the National Assembly. Here I agree that many times we have been able to witness that the control mechanisms have failed. But in fact, this has dragged all this history into the structure of different governments. Here we should look at ourselves and say whether we are sufficiently effective in control mechanisms. And it is only when we take advantage of the domestic intelligence, the domestic levers that we have, that we think that someone can help us do so and with new knowledge, with new financial resources, with other capital that will enable us to achieve the strategic goals that we would choose in Slovenia. Otherwise, if we have control mechanisms, mechanisms for the implementation of termination strategies, then it seems to me that the field of discussion is completely different, rather than talking about how to manage and provide interests. That is why I understand this debate today only as a travel agent to the Government in the preparation of this strategy in the field of capital investment management in the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the President of the Government, in his reply to the question already in the autumn, announced that this strategy would be ready in the autumn months, we expect this strategy to be submitted to the National Assembly after the public debate and that the National Assembly will then be able to take an interest, not in the interest of individual political groups and playing on the sandstone, but in the interest of the further development of the Republic of Slovenia and take the best decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	Mr. Magg has the word. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and European Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this debate today, which is not about the decision to be taken, it would be good if we first looked at some facts that are broader than the question of the Ljubljana Bank. This country notes, to the best extent possible, that the management of this asset has been extremely poor in the past, that it has around EUR 6 billion in various financial forms, in various institutions. This is said to be about 16 % of the social product. Since there were questions about the need to make a comparison and the correct question of what the return is in terms of the cost of financing, assuming that there would be a marked increase in interest rates in the European Union over the next five years, both financial institutions and individuals forecast, this asset, which I have now indicated, should be given on average more than 7 % in order to be higher than what would be the cost of debt financing of this asset. So this is the first general direction that a government has to have when it weighs between the investment it has and the resources or funding it needs to keep that investment alive. As any private owner sees, the same is true of the country in this case. The country is no different owner than it is private when it has shares in financial terms, except that it may have some additional objectives defined through its strategic documents, which are known from the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia forward in Slovenia. By the way, what Mr Vizjak said earlier, we are not talking about the development strategy of the financial system, although we are talking about the Ljubljana Bank today, but we are talking about a management strategy with the entire financial portfolio of a country that is not only in financial institutions, but also in infrastructure institutions such as energy, transport and the like. Not to mention those where he stopped from his previous property transformation and unfortunately stayed there. The material on this topic on the development strategy of the financial sector is being prepared at the Ministry of Finance and will also be made available to the public. In addition to this strategy, which is a management strategy with all shares, not only shares in the financial system. If we find out that this property is about 16%, that its return is on average extremely small at this moment, there are no calculations because no one is dealing with it, I would say, properly and continuously. Departments don't do that. When the Court and the Court have not dealt specifically with this, that is to say, we have a very fragmented structure dealing with this issue, which is why there could never have been a serious discussion in Parliament on this issue. I hope that the Agency, with the basic powers it has received, will establish basic proposals for such a discussion at all, which will be empirically, substantively supported so that decisions can be alternatively presented and also through the Government and then in the National Assembly. That's the first one. By the way, we have 152 investments where the country is financially involved. I can tell you that at least 140 we don't know what to do with these investments. Not those who currently manage them, not those who should otherwise decide. I could also read to you because we have made an effort now to gather this together to see how it is. For some we only have a book value, we have no estimated value, we have an estimated value for others, etc. It is said that one relatively large confusion that requires a State to be a serious owner of a property, a different relationship. That's the first one. Second. What should corporate governance, which is a lot to talk about, be little done in practice until the start of the conversation with the OECD? This is that the basic principles of asset management and enterprise management, which operate in the private sector and develop on the basis of a profit motive and other ownership interests, are also transferred to those forms of governance where the country is involved. The country cannot manage financial investments in a different way than everyone else does. If it works differently, it doesn't control it, it conducts it. And here is this leap that is likely to be needed in Slovenia. I now remember those ideas, by the way, where it was said that if all political parties were involved in management structures, management would run normally. I hope that none of the political options will be involved, because then the bigger issue will run normally, so if the professional decisions are taken by those who are technically empowered to do so and by those who have a political interest. But by then, perhaps something else will have happened to Sava under normal circumstances. As far as the financial sector and all other investments are concerned, if I only point out, we have three to four major investments in the financial sector: Nova Ljubljanska Banka, NKBM, Sava Insurance Company, not to mention a reinsurance company which I do not know why it should necessarily be in state-owned ownership. Then we have large entities or institutions in infrastructure, if we're talking about energy, we have an entire energy system in large state ownership – from production through transmission to distribution, so we have, in whole public ownership, sea transport, that's what we call Luke plus rail transport. I've only listed these most global clusters. If we want to have relatively stable public finances at the same time, and stable public finances mean, on the one hand, a manageable deficit, if even a deficit, something else can be more, the budget is likely to be under discussion, and on the other hand public debt, together with guarantees or guarantees, a public debt that will not exceed a certain amount, is 60%, otherwise it will come next to the measures that will be discussed next month when we talk about the state budget. The European Union is preparing for financial sanctions against countries that will not meet these two conditions at the same time, and these sanctions will be linked to the non-use of cohesion funds from the European budget. A serious problem for Slovenia would be if this were to happen because cohesion funds are an important source of funding for our investment projects, such as those and others defined through operational programmes. Debt for the maintenance of this property or for its normal operation is not an independent category of public debt. It will therefore be necessary to make the priorities of what should remain strategic if you want this title, the strategic investment of a country that will first have its economic content, so that it can become strategic at all, to give some benefit - economic and social - to those who invest it for such purposes, and secondly, to respect the principle that the state invests as much as it can in terms of its public financial framework. Therefore, the State will not be able to be the main or important owner of New Ljubljana Bank and New Credit Bank Maribor, the Insurance Office of Triglav and so on in the financial sector, but will have to decide what is what if it wants to be defined that way, which is of primary importance to it, and on the basis of this through the strategy to say what will not be what is of primary importance and what will not be a strategic investment if so called, but will be a market investment, which means that it can also be available on the market. So first of all, it will be necessary to clean up this difference in our heads between whether all of ours, mostly in state ownership, or whether what may give some very legitimate reasons for this to remain. The same is true of course in telecommunications, the same is true in transport and the same is true in energy. All of this together, if we want to keep in such a state-owned form as now, I have said, is worth 16% of the social product at this moment, and it should yield approximately such a return so that we will not create a net debt on the basis of the difference between the costs of the debt and bring on this property. We have not yet started this discussion, which will be very interesting when we start it, because a portfolio will then be created, for each individual investment it will be possible to define what these basic characteristics are and with such a credit portfolio as the banks say when dealing with each individual entity, it will be possible for Parliament and the Government to come up with arguments for and against any investment being treated as such and would therefore be properly treated accordingly. So, until we answer these questions, we don't have a clear macroeconomic picture. However, I think that the macro-economic picture is one of the primary national interests in this case in order to keep a stable economy. In addition, national interest is also education, health, social protection, not to mention this in particular, and these things must also be financed, and it usually occurs that there are some alternatives, that politics must decide between what is more important and what is less important at a given time or at some time. This strategy will be prepared in this year, and on Thursday the process will also be completed for the appointment of the Agency's leadership, I hope that, in the most cases of professional criteria, those who know about this matter will really lead the agency. Not just because they were appropriate from a political point of view. In doing so, the role of Kad and Sod will change in many ways. If we really want to go in the direction of corporate governance development, this agency will not only go to the assemblies of these companies and raise hands or drop hands there, but will manage these companies where the state is a majority or important owner. The Court and the Court of Justice will not give the financial institution management power to give the assets that are financially managed an adequate return, while corporate decisions will be taken at the agency. In this regard, too, there are clearly some misunderstandings that will have to be made at the time of the adoption of another law, which is still in the National Assembly and which is a twin in this first law on the Agency, which is about the reshaping of Kad and Sod, definitively adopted. Finally, something about the New Ljubljana Bank, because this is obviously the most interesting. The Ljubljana Bank went into state hands in 1992 for a simple reason, not because the country wanted to own the Ljubljana Bank, but because the Ljubljana Bank was at that time unable to continue its business under the conditions it had received until then due to the transition to the new system and at the time of the collapse of the country. No foreign investor was willing to enter at that time, and no domestic private investor willing to invest in the Ljubljana Bank was able to do the same for the Maribor Bank. The remaining banks were normally operating in the future with some of the procedures of the then so-called framework recovery. At that time, the country entered the Ljubljana Bank, dismissed all the owners, although some are still complaining in court, and went to the rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank in order not to keep the state owner or the majority owner of the bank forever, but to seek the quality of the rehabilitation of private owners who would normally manage the bank. These quality private owners in Slovenia did not exist until today, there have been some recapitalisations, which fellow Members well know about, in 2008 and even earlier, which were more or less fictitious recapitalisations, where countless strange owners, such as Rudnik Trbovlje, have appeared, and are now critical owners, because their sale of this property can spoil many of the relationships that are in this bank. In addition, it has happened that they have become co-owners of this bank of certain companies, such as the Triglav Insurance Company, which in principle has no special interest with the Ljubljana Bank if we want to understand the functioning of the Ljubljana Bank as set out. Why did Ljubljana Bank design a joint insurance company with KBC? In order to cooperate with Triglav or to compete on the insurance services market with existing operators on the market? Then how did the Insurance Company Triglav appear in various of its incarnations, which has now become a co-owner of the Ljubljana Bank? What is the business interest of these two institutions in this way? He's not here. What happened at the Ljubljana Bank in all these periods is that the country gradually reduced its share of ownership and that some other owners, including one of the important owners, entered it years ago. And this mixed property in the bank is, in my opinion, at least a good sign of a combination of private and public, domestic and foreign, which each on its own brings those incentives for a better operation of the bank, which will not be one with the heavy ownership. And this has proved to be true in the past in many other institutions. In this case, in my opinion, as far as the Ljubljana Bank is concerned, we do not have to worry about what we have to decide today, but we need to be concerned about why we are talking in public about various numbers, about recapitalisation, without having any serious document to define the economic content of the necessary recapitalisation. In this case, I agree with Mr Žerjav, who mentioned this, the internal overheating of the necessary additional capital is the first condition for the Supervisory Council and for the regulator, this is the Bank of Slovenia, to set a minimum framework. However, the interests of the administration are always that this capital would be as much as possible. This I think is clear to every company, not just the Ljubljana Bank. We are ahead of some kind of normal conflict of interest of the administration on the one hand, which should be to a certain extent in a positive conflict with the Supervisory Council, on the other hand with the regulator, who must take care of the stability of the system and determine what a minimum condition for a system-stable bank is for its recapitalisation, and on the other hand the owners, where the country is not the only one, but also the NCB is an important owner who must find its interest in this process with regard to potential recapitalisation and only then decide on it. However, if someone announces in advance what documentation is needed without the normal owners being able to identify it, I think it is a process that is going in the wrong direction. I have to say, personally, I'm not sure that the 400 is relevant because I don't know the facts that would strengthen me to believe that 400 is the right number. I don't know what the real number is, given that, in terms of operating costs, the Ljubljana Bank has not made any significant progress in recent years if we look at the relationship between operational costs and income. I cannot answer the question of what is necessary, what is the recapitalisation, if I do not know what is the status of the Celje bank, where the Ljubljana Bank is 49% co-owner, and it has no clear idea from the regulator's point of view whether or not it can take over this bank. If she can't, I should sell it because otherwise it doesn't make sense to invest so much money in an investment where you don't have much control. If I were to sell it, this would mean less necessary additional capital, because it would generate funds if it were owned by a majority, then it would be able to consolidate this investment in the majority and thus have less need for additional capital. The third thing is, of course, the Ljubljana Bank network, where it is not important, but if we are now really talking about national interest, what has been said, it is not only that we are expanding across the Balkans, but that the Bank has had and has some obligations as a country Slovenia to financially strengthen the situation of Slovenian substitution in other countries. We never hear much discussion on this subject. Ljubljanska banka moved from Trieste to Municipality, it was of course in the national interest it seemed a good step to withdraw from Trieste and go to the municipalities to establish its business unit. If we are already looking at the problem of such an institution more broadly, then there are other issues, not just monetary and additional investments. Third time. Management boards and supervisory boards have their responsibilities. I hope that they are both supervisory saints and administrations, or they will be called in the future, not by which political options are most appropriate, but by having international references to the conduct of banking transactions. [[Mr. Pukšič laughs, but there's no reason for that.]] In order to reach such a appointment in financial institutions and not only in financial institutions, this change in corporate governance is a prerequisite that procedures will clearly define what someone can and cannot do and cannot do. The Ljubljanska banka is not owned by the State in order to order the Ljubljana Bank to which it is to invest, but this is the opposite, it must not order, because otherwise the Ljubljana Bank is no longer a bank, but it is a state fund. These too are likely to change over time because it is also a sort of maturation of this situation. If I'm done. In this particular question, I have no answer until I get these basic explanations that I have been talking about: what about the cost of operating the bank, what about the effectiveness of the network of this institution, which has expanded in the past across the country of the former Yugoslavia, what about the issues of those investments within and outside the country, such as Bank Celje and many other parabank activities such as leasings, factorings and the like outside Slovenia? On this basis, it will be possible to determine what capital needs to be added, given what can be rationalised in the operation of this bank. Just saying that we want to have a bank that is regionally important is not enough. For the regional importance of the bank, there is only too little capital, especially knowledge. The question is whether the Ljubljana Bank has enough accumulated knowledge, potential in technology, to control a quality network, as it has established in the past few years in the former Yugoslavia. Is the presence in this network in these areas really such that it can be seized from the operation of this group of the Ljubljana Bank? On the basis of the fact that the Government will obtain all the relevant information, and I hope that it will obtain it through the central bank of the Ministry of Finance, which will prepare the basic material for such a discussion, we will be able to make a substantive decision on the basis of these data on what will be the proceeds of a particular recapitalisation process in such an institution. And once we have decided, together with Parliament, that this recapitalisation is necessary by the State, the State will consciously decide that certain other recapitalisations in some other institutions will not be carried out because it will not have sufficient financial potential to do so. This will be the strategic decision of the Republic of Slovenia as regards the financial sector. What Mr. Vizjak asked before. That will, of course, be the final decision. I am sure that it will not be possible to have three or four financial institutions at the same time predominantly in state ownership. Slovenia does not have this potential with its per capita income and will therefore have to decide accordingly. There are advantages and disadvantages of state ownership. I come from one meeting in Vienna, a few days ago, where this debate was very open, from various countries came people explaining what was happening to them. And if you are now doing a serious analysis of what the advantages and weaknesses of the vast state ownership and the vast non-state ownership are, I could not fully agree with what Mrs Brunskole has said, there is no very clear definition of advantages and weaknesses. Just as it is not a very clear definition that state ownership is bad because empirical records do not allow it, there is no very clear position or record that private ownership is superior, as far as this is concerned. Superior becomes effective by upgrading those elements, any of those properties that make this property effective. These are management, leadership, mostly these two elements. In conclusion, I think that the debate in the National Assembly will have to be held before a decision is taken on any one million euro investment, additional investment in the Ljubljana Bank. If someone assumes that this decision must be time-consuming under pressure of some need, then this circle must be replaced to be discussed first at the Government and the National Assembly, and then it will be decided in the supervisory council and the bank as long as, of course, the co-owner state. And this is one of those obstacles or advantages that this story must end in the National Assembly if we are to have as much ownership as it is important to own a country in this institution. In addition, it is necessary to take account of another owner, the owner is approximately 30% of the owner of the bank and, without its codecision, it is not possible to simply decide that the State will fully collect all the shares and be the owner of that institution, which would be unnecessary and, of course, financially such a burden that Slovenia could not bear in the medium term. The agreement of two important owners and the entry of any third party with clearly defined percentages or shares of existing owners is, in my opinion, the path that will eventually lead to a solution. Extreme solutions will certainly not help to ensure that this institution works well in the future. It is true, however, that from the point of view of the crisis and the consequences of the crisis, the Ljubljana Bank is not significantly worse off than other banks of a similar size and character, such as the Ljubljana Bank, in Europe. And because of this, there is no need for panicky decision-making and a search for solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. Minister, there's probably no one here in the National Assembly who would argue that all of the 152 investments you've mentioned are state-owned, I don't know what's important to this country, and that there's no way to sell any of these investments, of course. I'm sure no one in the National Assembly would say that. But we are talking about the biggest Slovenian bank. There isn't any. If we were to talk about the second largest bank, perhaps the conversation would be substantially different than it is today. First of all, I'm surprised that somehow I'm getting the feeling that you've already made up your mind and you know what's best for this bank and what kind of recapitalisation. However, you yourself recognize that there are several questions to be answered, even before any decision is taken, but we do not yet have the answers, especially the internal questions of the New Ljubljana Bank, if I so say, where should we as politicians not actually go, the sale of unnecessary assets and so on. The numbers that are circulating, from 200 to 700 million, we heard them on the Finance Committee by the President of the Board, we didn't make them up, we asked him, the President of the Board said a minimum of 250, after the end of these hybrid instruments three years later, 600 to 700 million. That was said by the chairman of the board. It is true, however, that when we discussed the reasons, although he mentioned some of them, that is, the legislation adopted in the EU area, the reasons for the use of the bank's own resources to develop abroad, he gave two more reasons. But he didn't touch those reasons that I was trying to mention myself in some way. We should also talk about these loans, which were given on the basis of some friendly ties. Otherwise, you can't just hand out a few hundred million loans. And that should certainly be taken very seriously. No, it's not 152 investments. In this case, it is the Bank of Ljubljana, and it is certainly also the Insurance Company of Triglav and the question whether it is wise to think, even if not the capital connection, at least the strategic integration of these two financial institutions. I guess that would be wise, at least, in my opinion. For now, we leave everything else behind, the New Maribor Credit Bank. The debate is probably welcome about this bank, but it's probably going to be different than it is. You mentioned infrastructure. Today we are talking about the establishment of a large logistics mastodon, where we include companies that, in my opinion, are not strategically important. One Intereuropa is certainly not of strategic importance for this country. We are establishing a large mastodon where we want to be 51% of owners, we will reach the point where we cannot guarantee this property, and some recapitalisation will be necessary. And on this account, because again we will not be able, as we are now unable to retain ownership in the New Ljubljana Bank, we will lose ownership of an important part of the Slovenian economy, infrastructure in Primor, if you want Luke Koper, and not least Slovenian railways. So my opinion is, even if we open this up, the establishment of this great mastodon is the first step in losing ownership in this important infrastructure area. And this probably shouldn't be a strategy, a vision of this country. However, certain points must be kept in our hands to ensure normal development in this country. Of course, ensure, clearly, absolutely agree, normal governance, effectively ensuring competitiveness, etc. I think that we Slovenians are capable of having good enough staff to be able to run these institutions, these banks and all these companies as they are called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Mr. Magg has the word. Gaspari. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	I just want to say briefly that I wouldn't have stayed in the air as if that were the correct conclusion. I don't feel like I've made up my mind. That is why I cannot decide because I do not have this basic additional information, and I think that any professional decision is linked to being supported by an appropriate empirical and other record. So I think it's too early today to talk about numbers, about how much recapitalisation is needed. The one you mentioned, about 700 million, you know, in the next 15 years there may be a billion, a billion, two hundred, but that doesn't mean that the state has to invest. I hope that this bank will sometimes be in a situation where, from its own retained profits, it can also invest in its own development, otherwise it is a red cross, not a financial activity. I have already been declared by some others to have a certain position. I take an interest in following up on these peer reviews, but I do know that I control what I think. So I will decide when the relevant documents are on the table, both in the Government and in the National Assembly. Then it will be perfectly clear why someone has made such a decision. But today I wouldn't speculate because it's unfair. And it was incorrect of the bank, I must say, speculation by announcing the necessary recapitalisation in public. This is not the way it works in the normal financial system anywhere in the world and not in Slovenia. The owners agree first, and then it's publicized. But if this was a form of pressure, then this is already part of the policy. Then this is no longer a professional question or professional question, but it is something else. I am not prepared to make such important decisions that we will make decisions through newspapers or in this way. I agree, however, that once the Ministry of Finance has prepared the appropriate material, and this material is in the procedure of government treatment, that is to say, the definition of how the Government is to be defined in the case of the Ljubljana Bank. Otherwise, I think it would be better if we were to define, at the same time, not only the Ljubljana Bank, but something else within this package of strategic decision-making on the government's policy in the area of capital investment management, but no matter what, even with such material, it will be possible to focus relatively clearly on those basic assumptions that enable it to be defined, not only a share, but a certain commitment of owners to such an institution economically and even more broadly, if you want to, justified. I've told you a few things before that I miss. The main thing that I miss, if you want, is that we don't have, at least I don't have a document on the government to talk about the Ljubljana Bank's medium-term strategy for the next 5 to 10 years. Then I will be very able to say whether we are able as a country, for the first time, whether the strategy is reasonably dimensional from the point of view of owners, because we end up here as a purely normal owner, whether these ambitions are too large or are wrong. If they are wrong, they need to be corrected because they cannot be determined by leadership, but are determined by the owner, at least by these basics, and on this basis this is a further step, in what way will one of the owners in this process participate. However, if this strategy is not clear and, by the way, one such interesting question, and I conclude with this, is whether the international network of this institution should be organised as it is. We have different experiences across the countries of the European Union, here and there, how this international presence of a particular institution can be organised, especially in an area such as the former Yugoslavia, because the risks in the coming years are earlier than less and, of course, good governance, good supervision system, a good information system is a serious prerequisite for such an investment in a foreign group of such an institution, such as the Ljubljana Bank, to have a net positive effect, not a net negative effect. However, I agree with you that there are billions of capital and more, which is now, although this billion capital is not all from the country, but this concentration of capital, such as in the Ljubljana Bank, is now the largest capital concentration in the national economy such as Slovenia. Such an investment in capital must always have a very serious relationship, because it can have very serious negative consequences if the attitude is unrealistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	Respected and respected! In this debate, which has leaned heavily on some technical side, however, I think it is appropriate to stress the political dimension of the dilemmas that lie ahead. And I understand this issue in the first place as a political issue, because it is directly linked to the question of the future structure of our national economy. The dilemma facing Slovenia is relatively clear. And I think it gives one easier answer, and the other the harder way. It is easier for me to decide whether to sell, recapitalise by a foreign bank or a financial institution, thereby depriving the State of its responsibility for the smart management of this property and, on the other hand, to remedy the public financial situation in the short term. I'm agreeing to other harder ways. And this difficult path lies in the answer to the question: Are we in this country capable of providing such a mechanism for managing our capital investments, especially strategic investments, which will ensure the sound management of these companies and finally prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses. In the core of this debate, when we talk about why the New Ljubljana Bank has reached the point where it needs recapitalisation, the real reason lies. It is precisely that this bank, as no other bank or other financial institutions in that country, did not have a very clearly defined strategy: what the State, as the owner of these companies, expects of these companies on behalf of the public as the ultimate owner of this asset. So what is the clear mandate given by the State as owner to the supervisory boards and the administrations of these companies? And since these strategies, this basic reference to the autonomous authorities of companies, were not available, these companies could fish in mud and provide servitude to some other interests, not publicly recognised interests, which should be defined by the State as the owner of these companies. Taiwanation in Slovenia. At this point, we can pay this Taiwanisation three times. For the first time, the privatisation process, which was originally conceived in Slovenia as the concept of some modern working industrial shareholding, civic equity, has turned into a concentration of former property ownership in the hands of managers and also political elites. Secondly, because of the credit accumulation, the credit potential of Slovenian banks over the pre-crisis period has been fuelled by privatisation and tycunization, rather than widening the potential of the Slovenian economy to prepare itself for the challenges ahead of the crisis by investing in development. And for the third time now, if we are irreparably, I stress, irreparably, that we will open the door to the process of privatising state property and especially within this strategic investment, such as the New Ljubljana Bank. There is no difference between Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor in this dilemma for me. While I expect that as soon as we close the question of the New Ljubljana Bank, the NKBM issue will be very quickly open. But there's no difference to me. Why? The comparison of the share of foreign banks in the domestic banking markets of the European Union countries is very clear to me. Slovenia today has 30.78% of the share of foreign banks in the domestic banking market. Let's look at the countries that have this percentage higher. Estonia, 97.27%, Bulgaria 83%, Slovakia 92%, Czech Republic 90%. We know what the condition of these Eastern European tigers is today. And we also know what a miracle recipe suggested in the early 1990s a mass privatisation of all kinds. This is the concept that we have successfully escaped in Slovenia so far. But today we are at those intersections when the process of neoliberal capitalism may again overwhelm us. Where are the countries by which we like to imitate ourselves, which we often set as examples in our discussions? Netherlands 5.69 % of foreign banks’ share in the domestic banking market, Sweden 9.38, Spain 10.64 % and Germany 11.53 %. What group of countries do we want to be, respected and respected? I am sure that many of the Eastern European countries that I listed earlier, where foreign banks' shares in the domestic banking market would have gone to heaven today, if they had the option, would have made a different decision. But they can't make a choice. This suggests the irreversible nature of this process. I am very pleased that in today's debate we have agreed more or less that the key to this question is how the country should be a good business owner, how the country should be a good owner of the New Ljubljana Bank and other financial institutions, in the capital investment management strategy that the National Assembly should adopt by the end of this year. But I repeat, it is not only a question of whether we will sell an investment or not, but it is also a question of what is the strategy of an individual company. This question must be answered by the State. I think that, until now, with the appropriate process, the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act, not least at this meeting, we will end the process of reshaping the Kad and Sod, we have properly anchored this process and that, at the end of this process, there can be an appropriate answer to the question of what the role of the State as a good owner of enterprises should be. But, I repeat, within this, however, the key question that still stands before the National Assembly is the appropriate human resources choice. I am firmly convinced that the people who will run the agency, the agency's administration and the board of agencies must have an adequate ethical attitude towards the issue of state property: whether they believe that state property can be managed better, and whether they know that this is their fundamental task, that it is that mandate that the National Assembly should give them by appointment. I agree that this is essentially a matter of being our national and economic sovereignty. Countries are changing, and the modern country of the 21st century must ask itself the question of its economic sovereignty substantially differently than it has so far. At the core of these issues is what national economy we want to develop. Whether sooner or later, because of the fact that our companies, our banks, our energy system and our sales policies will be ruled by foreign owners, become a servant in the midst of Europe or we will be able to develop and manage our assets well for the long-term benefit of this nation. First of all, because this will preserve quality jobs in Slovenia, it will create quality jobs in Slovenia and, lastly, because this will represent the country's capital income. I think that the dilemmas are clear, answers and applauding the way to resolve this issue within the governance strategy, if not, but also with a separate document that we can read about in the daily paper today, but still pave the way for a long-term stable state ownership in this bank, as well as in that part of the financial and banking system that has remained in state hands for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that this debate shows that the sale of majority state shares is not just an economic or financial or mathematical issue. The fact is that we will end up making decisions despite legitimate calls for dialogue on this debate politically. The government, and we have heard this today from Mr President, has not yet adopted any decision or strategy regarding the sale of state investments. This can make us happy, for it gives us time to think carefully and to make sober decisions. I advise the government on prudence, urgency, especially during the crisis, is the worst possible hurry. While the situation is clear, we are in crisis, the money is getting smaller. As one of the two mostly state banks, the new Ljubljana Bank is obviously due to the wrong business moves, which have also been linked several times to political clientele, and we have repeatedly warned about these hunters, and that is why we are still paying a certain political price today. This bank is in a state where recapitalisation or, in other words, privatisation or, in other words, taking over a foreign partner is the only serious way out of its chronic inefficiencies. Of course, I'm putting it in quotes. It is difficult for a simple citizen to understand any chronic inefficiencies and the need to recapitalise a banking institution that has an objective position in Slovenia. Similarly, the crisis of some other financial institutions and companies where the state has a majority share, such as casinos, which were once an example of state financial skills, is now becoming an incomprehensible black hole. But let's not pretend. The issue of the sale or privatisation of some of the pillars of our financial infrastructure is not only economic but is inherently political. Even if we hear a lot of calls not to discuss it politically. Unfortunately, this political debate is necessary because, on the other hand, we know who and how it inspires the rapid sale and privatisation of everything in the state. This is an ideological factor, and this is the ideology of neoliberalism and the attempt to prove that everything in public ownership is intolerable, while private interest is the only merodajno in the market economy. It is the global crisis and economic crisis that proves that the picture is not black and white. On the contrary. Some other countries, and colleague Frangež also listed some such cases, prove that maintaining a majority stake in national hands is still important. Banks are not ordinary businesses. Banks are an integral part of a country's financial infrastructure, which may also have some development objective. Banks guide or can guide the economic development of one country. Especially those more vulnerable small countries. This is well aware of all banking institutions interested in taking over banks, state banks in transition countries. They are aware of this, of what it means to take over the supervision of financial infrastructure, to redirect investment, to comply with these or other strategic guidelines. After all, it is not only a question of banks or insurance companies, but also a question of some fundamental, strategically important enterprises that are majority state-owned. Finally, there is a hand-to-hand debate and also a controversy about the creation of a large logistics holding company, where three state-owned companies or mainly state-owned companies are expected to join together: Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Slovenian Railways. There is also talk of recapitalisation, which would necessarily be state-owned in order to establish and enable the development of this holding company. But the final objective of this manoeuvre is clearly very similar to the final objective of today's debate. In the background, according to the majority of acquaintances, it is again the acquisition of a foreign partner, the sale of state property. And if that is true, I cannot think separately about the New Ljubljana Bank today and separate this debate from the emergence of some kind of strategy where they are seen and the observable outline of neoliberal options. I wouldn't want that from our government. I therefore hope that what the Prime Minister has said today is that there is no decision yet, even though there is a rather decisive direction to realize such recapitalisation. I hope that the government will take enough time, because hurrying in times of crisis is not the best consultant. We know that we need recapitalisation now, that the public expects clear answers to some critical questions, but we also know that the crisis highlights the need for sound decisions. I am joining all those who have found that the Slovenian model was different at this point. Slovenia has been able to prove that, with a balanced combination of public and private, it has not left it to those advice that would quickly be privatised and would in fact quickly put it on the side of the Eastern European countries which have adopted such a development and for which high taxes are likely to be paid today. Above all, the future is unclear. I would like to keep Slovenia side by side with those countries that prove that the state sector too when the state as owner manages to regulate the situation within large state-owned enterprises and manages to stop those hunters who unfortunately lead to such a situation when the minister acknowledges that he does not own, as a representative of the main owner of the right, the event of the largest state bank is that things go by the owner. I wonder where the supervisors are, why the control system of the New Ljubljana Bank is not working and why we have brought this monopolistic financial institution in Slovenia, objectively monopolistic, because monopolies are banned, to such a state. Why, in fact, is New Ljubljana Bank, which is based on information that we can receive from the media, part of cartel bargaining with some other banks and affording very high prices for the services of its own committees, why does such a bank need 400 million today to recapitalise itself? Apparently, from the moment the state took over from former state ownership in 1992, to today, poor governance. This is the essence of the issue, not the structure of ownership. We have a state-owned property structure that could be effective, but it's not. We have other countries, Germany, for example, where some companies are completely state-owned, such as Deutsche Bahn, and not only do they work effectively, but they even allow themselves to take over other state-owned companies. And we are back in holding and purpose, which is able to understand between the lines of debate on logistics holding. This debate is welcome. Although I voted in error at the time for this debate, I look forward to it. I think we have opened a chapter where the public concerned, we as Members, the professional public must cooperate and eventually be defined as a development model. We only want to follow the path of neoliberal recipes, but we want to maintain a certain influence on the public when we talk about state influence it sounds a little bit worse, but I prefer to talk about public influence in those institutions that are strategically important for the further development of the economic and social development of Slovenia. So the debate is here. The rapid definition does not apply. Let's actually assess all possible options. But I prefer to define myself to maintain public interest. If it is a stable bank, a large Slovenian bank with regional ambitions in the public interest, it is necessary to determine how to ensure this public interest, whether it is through recapitalisation and the acquisition of a foreign partner, or whether it is through a risky investment of the country, while ensuring a fundamental change in the management of the bank itself. If this change is not and everything will continue as it is, the 400 million will be lost, there will be no effect, we will face a similar situation in the future. This is not what anyone in the National Assembly and outside this National Assembly wants. In my view, it is also crucial to condition possible recapitalisation of the country with changes in the management system of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. The role of banks during the economic and financial crisis was extremely important. Many of us have estimated that such a crisis is to some extent the fault of the inflexible banking system that we have in Slovenia and the intentions and actions of some banks when credits were drawn back, when credits were no longer paid and the burden of this lending, the removal of credit crunches and all these things went to banks that are predominantly or mostly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, of course, I also think it is an extremely important debate on ownership and all these things of our largest bank. I am talking about the New Ljubljana Bank, which represents almost 30% of the market share in the banking and financial sector in the country. From this point of view, of course, this is understandable, and the concern of everyone, not only for this bank, but how and in what way with the banking and financial sector ahead, is extremely important. This debate would probably not be such or so heated if this financial crisis and this economic crisis, as well as the credit crunch, were not so great. But let's see what happened. Banks that are in the majority of foreign ownership or where owners from the outside have pulled all credit potential back, serviced their nuts, tried to reduce risks in this economic, financial market, and all the burden has actually fallen to the two largest banks and banks that are, of course, predominantly owned by the Republic of Slovenia or are owned within this large enough. Whether these were successful or not, this is probably also due to the fact that the balance sheet total of all these banks is only based on the data we have, 148.5% of GDP, compared to European banks, where this is more than 300% of GDP, it has been difficult, unable and unable to do so. Therefore, a comprehensive banking system and a strategy in this banking and financial market will need to be adopted in a new way. This could probably have been more favourable in terms of the restructuring of this banking system, and it would have been easier to do so at times when the debate was less intense. I therefore advocate that, before any change is adopted both in ownership and in all these matters, a strategy for the development of the financial and not only banking system should be adopted in the National Assembly and in the Government, including a governance strategy. It is a comprehensive debate on how and in what way. Today we have already heard what assets and where all this property does not produce the desired effects, neither in terms of the capital injections nor in terms of the dividends we have. And in this way this property will have to be sold or sold off, although now is not the best time to do so, or at some point, where there could be a greater return, things will increase. Certainly Slovenia is also committed to sovereignty in the management of its real and financial assets, but we need a strategy that we must adopt. Part of this path has already been made by adopting a management strategy, not a management strategy, but by setting up an agency that will lead the management strategy. The second part will have to be made for the financial assets management strategy and only then will it be possible to say how and how to proceed. It's also true that when you talk to bankers, they have another vision. They say if the state withdrew from its equity share to 25 plus or below 50, it would be much easier to get some other capital, recapitalisation and some things. You have to be very careful here. What will happen to us if not only the largest bank but also the rest of the banks drop below 50% and where the share of foreign banks will no longer be in the share of the banking system in Republic 30, but will suddenly be 60, 70%. This is, of course, a danger that can occur to us. Therefore, it is extremely important how and how we will do this. Also because there are more questions in all of this than we can get an answer at this point in time. From what has already been exposed today, what it means to control such banks, what it means to control an entire banking system that was somehow beyond our range, what it means to adopt different strategies of individual banks. It is also true that the experience we have with the New Ljubljana Bank in taking over the burden of the financial crisis is somewhat poor. This is also because we have dealt with the policy of this bank, not with capital investments, not with the operation of the bank and not with the operation of the banking system. Banks are becoming savings banks, not banks, they are committed to getting inward funds, they are not taking any more risks, they are no longer taking investment and they are no longer taking part in development, either as was the crisis or as expected from the banking sector. That is why this strategy, which we are talking about all the time today, and the decision is necessary. We will probably have this debate in the National Assembly soon and will reopen it. I hope not only about the New Ljubljana Bank, but about the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. So a few responses. I certainly agree with the President of the Government that the current discussion is premature and will be reversed when we discuss the asset management strategy, which will be presented to Parliament by the Agency for the Management of State Capital Shares on a proposal from the ministries, then by the Government. This is now being set up, something with the calls has to be even repeated, so it's a little bit lingering over our plans, but the strategy is being prepared. At the Ministry of Finance, we have created a special group of experts, a special Strategic Council of the Minister of Finance, which is preparing this strategy with eminent experts in this area. Part of this strategy has already been published as a material or summary of the first part as an article on the importance of ownership for the strategy, at least in so-called systemic financial institutions, the systemic ones on which the whole system, its smooth and normal functioning is dependent. On this basis we have prepared a shorter summary, this is a state ownership strategy in the New Ljubljana Bank, which we will use if the Government confirms it as a basis for our negotiations with the other owners in the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. This will be decided by the assembly convened for the end of November of this year. Let me just say that the analyses show that if we did not participate in the recapitalisation and it would take place at book value and that later, when the market is normalised and this price could reach 2.5 times the book value, especially if it were a property restructuring, we would lose up to half a billion euro of taxpayers' funds, so I think we will now have to go into this project, and then it depends on how we try to establish stable ownership of the bank with partners, perhaps not that the state would be 51% of owners, but would find other options for the bank to remain independent and independent and thus important system institutions not only with us, but with a view to the Western Balkans. In this case, all the interferences of control would remain in Slovenia, except those which are now merging at European Union level. Let me say that the control system in the New Ljubljana Bank is working. It is a large regulated institution, has a supervisory board and has a quality regulator Banka Slovenije. I meet with the President of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis, including with other members from time to time, as well as with the members of the Management Board, when some of the issues of the functioning of the financial system and credit activity are raised. In this context, I must stress that the Ljubljana Bank has played an extremely important role in dealing with the crisis from November 2008 to mid-2009, when the financial credit market in Europe froze when everyone was solving himself. At that time we ensured the appropriate liquidity of the Slovenian economy mainly through this bank and through the issuance of first of all treasured coins, and later also through the issuance of bonds. This is actually an institution that was of great importance for the normal survival of the first wave of the crisis, but, of course, it can only credit those economic operators that are creditworthy. Some who have gone into so much trouble because of the market situation that credit is no longer available must receive other measures from our economic and development policies rather than from banks either domestically or in foreign ownership. Here we have created a special consulting company, PDP, as a subsidiary of Kad, who can enter as a recapitalizer where there are still healthy cores, either buying them or entering directly into a company that has solvency problems. This has proved quite successful in several areas. In some, however, there are fewer, particularly where certain disturbances have occurred in the so-called second phase of privatisation, in ownership and, consequently, in the problems that followed. I wouldn't specifically mention them. If we return to the Ljubljana Bank, I would say, not only is it safe, but it also has an extremely high level or rather high level of reservations, when some of these securities seized during the crisis of some companies, mainly linked to the crisis of the second phase of privatisation and after the acquisition of these shares by banks, will be resold. That's what's going on. That's when these reservations will break down. These are very quality secured loans for which reservations were then made. Here's some hidden source of profit, it's said that this profit will actually show up. First, we will be able to absorb it with corporate income tax, and secondly, there will be a source of reserves, there will be additional capital, and there will be a source of budget, for Balance A, for additional financing of public spending where necessary. Let me tell you, when it comes to state property, that even at the time of the crisis, this property brings bad 100 million, I think it's 94 million from dividends. This is what comes from government property to finance public spending and thus relieves taxpayers. If this is sold out, I will not use the parable, then we will have a relatively favourable situation from the purchase, and later this source will no longer be used. An interesting illustration was that the bank was actually an economic service. This economic service actually provides the entire financial sector. We, as no doubt a small open economy, need extreme competition. We must be open to all who want to work on this market, to all we must be benevolent, equal and allow them to compete to service, actually offer their services to the Slovenian economy and the population, including the country, and at the same time expand their activities here. Those who have seats here, which are also interesting as creators of added value, as employers, as employees with very high quality jobs, if in the end I attach my purse, because you kindly elected me to this place, also as important taxpayers. There's a whole series of reasons why it's important that the bank stays here. The ownership structure itself can be such that the state simply manages, as it now manages with the NCBs under the Shareholder Agreement, and that is why all important business decisions are taken together and we will also decide on the recapitalisation together. This can then be divided into several partners, but the commitment must be clear and must prevent a subsidiary from sending this, where someone with 51% would reduce the activity first only to Slovenia, and then this would really become a savings facility and one of the side services, so we should look for financial sector services elsewhere. They come or they don't come. We have cases, and Slovenia was a painful example of this in the 19th century when industrialisation did not begin at all because the financial sector was not developed. This is probably one of the main causes of industrialization moving away from us after World War I. Regardless of the fact that we were in the back of the port of markets and that we were one of the first countries in Europe to have a railway connection. That's how much I would have for some response to the debate so far. Maybe one more thing. As regards recapitalisation and the need for recapitalisation. We planned a recapitalisation in the autumn of 2009, and we also had adequate resources in the B balance sheet. The recapitalisation would be carried out in a way that would yield higher returns than we had by obtaining these funds on the capital market, permanently but with the instruments carried out, so that it would not fall under privatisation or would not constitute an increase in the number of ordinary shares or capital collected by ordinary shares. With stress tests in Europe and preparations for Basel 3, standards, the importance of this capital, which owners place through ordinary shares, is increasing. In this context, the management proposal is now to recapitalise the bank in this way. The regulator listened to this proposal in part. To this end, the Assembly is now convened, and the owners will decide to what extent this will be done or what capital structure should be set aside in the light of the scale of the business. In this context, a new shareholder agreement may be concluded, but you will be aware of everything in the course of the implementation of the recapitalisation, and at the same time the strategy will be so far as to be able to decide, within the framework of the strategy itself, how much to extend the activities of the bank or to place it at Basel level 3 slightly earlier than the other countries. The other countries intend to do so in about seven, eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Today's debate on the government's response to the issue of the largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank and the recapitalisation is certainly very important. There may also need to be a broader debate on the entire financial and banking market in our country. Perhaps a few things back., How was it around 2000 in Slovenia, if we did not go so far, 10 years ago, we had over 66% of the banking market owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Now, according to the data, this percentage is already below 50%. The president said today that the criteria for assessing what the bank's ownership is the bank's profitability. I think it was very narrow here. It is not just the bank's profitability, especially if the question is, where does this return go? Does this return go into the state budget or does this return go into private pockets? As demonstrated by the administration of the former Ljubljana Bank, Kramar has a million in his pocket, as it now appears to the President of the Supervisory Board of the Credit Bank Maribor, as some silent owner over what we know, how many companies and so on. But it's important if this bank's profitability goes to a social upgrade. If this is going in this direction, then the development strategy is important. A development strategy, like our neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy, if you want, also the most liberal country in the world, the United States of America, where the banking system is not being left in the hands of other countries, but most of it is at home. It is important because of its own economy, which is most important. We won't survive without creating new values, we won't. Socialo can be pushed to some extent, but then it'll all go to hell. However, the own economy cannot survive and will not survive only in domestic markets. Therefore, it is essential to have a private economy on foreign markets. And who will step in parallel with them so that they can compete in foreign markets? Yeah, if the others don't, home bank! Or will they be side by side, i.e. with loans, a bank that will be in majority foreign ownership, where the majority owner will come from a country and there will also come from that country a competitor to the economy, that is to say to our economy when they meet somewhere in the third market. So who are they going to support? Yeah, probably the one that's coming from the country that's going to be the majority owner of a bank. Look, this is also happening now, after all, in this financial economic crisis. As the ministers have already said, even before, President of the Government and some fellow Members, foreign banks have retreated and saved the economy in their own countries. But here's what's left of it on the burdens of two domestic major banks. In addition to the return, as the Prime Minister of the Government has previously said, even more important or of the most important is the information system you have through banks about your economy. And if you put this information system out, then what you've been doing for decades, you've been creating, putting on the market, but only in your own economy at certain times can it only hurt. So it's important what it's like to own. Upgrading this is home-schooling, home-schooling. And look, you don't have to go far back. Let's just see what we've done with the privatisation. Today you sit on the other side, both in the coalition and in the government, those who, even when you are privatizing yourself, have laid down Slovenkam and Slovenes with many beautiful words about certificates, I don't know what. And what happened? It's gone wrong. Why did it fail? Yes, because there were too many who were not looking not at the interests of citizens and citizens, at the interests of the state, but at their own private interest. And this is how we lost a lot of Slovenian pearls. We've already lost them. And by privatising in the way that the majority owner will be a foreigner of the Ljubljana Bank, in ten years we will find that we have lost some more pearls. But who's in charge? Nobody. Of course not. What a minister, what a prime minister, what a government! With what? With nothing? Who's responsible today for losing Kolinska, losing Hankel in the first place? Henkel was one of the development companies in the European space, one of the major companies. What's today? It's a regular pack in Maribor. Where are those engineering personnel, where's that development, where's all this going, colleagues and colleagues? It's gone. Where's Elan, where's where the hydromontage is, where Metalna is, etc. These are the pearls that this ruling coalition, which has been in power all through, with a short period of four years in between, has brought to the point that is today. This is when we talk about the biggest Ljubljana Bank and when it comes to recapitalisation. Why recapitalisation? Minister Križanič, we'll probably agree here, probably has two purposes for recapitalisation. Whether the purpose is new fresh money, which means new development and prosperity of what I have just talked about, i.e. a strategy for economic development and so on, and the development of the economy comes with the remaining wider social infrastructure, health, education, social and so on, or the recapitalisation of liquidity problems. In this case, unfortunately, it is again a case of recapitalisation in the direction of solving liquidity problems. In this case, you will not sell the bank at such a price for as much capital as you would if you sold it in terms of new fresh money, economic development and so on. In this case, you're actually solving the bank's liquidity problems. Why did we come to this? Because you spoke from the government, responsible leadership, for the control councils, for the sake of a good regulator and so on. Yes, a very good regulator from Banka Slovenije told us that about 40% of the credits in Slovenian banks are so allegedly unsecured or poorly insured. Why was most of these loans granted? Was it given to development to achieve foreign markets, that is, markets in foreign areas, to develop the economy and so on? No, no, no. In general, these loans were granted for restructuring that some had become owners. What did the repayment of these loans come from? From the companies where these managers, the quasi-managers, are extremely smart, even the managers of the year are, and so on, silent owners. Now, now they're dripping, which means we get a new tycoon address, not just tycoons, they're quiet tycoons or quiet managers. Just because they've been paying off these loans to some extent, after they've exhausted their own companies, that they can't even repay the loans anymore, comes to what's going on: Mercury, Vegrad, Bavčar's big holding Istrabenz and so on. Where's the responsibility here? Who was responsible for this? There is no criminal responsibility, no personal responsibility, only to be at least a personal physical responsibility with all their property they have. By the way, even if they don't have anything, some of them will even get help from the stock exchange because they transferred everything else to their relatives and made sure that the capital was safely invested in foreign banks, hidden banks, hidden companies, so that it wouldn't be passed on to them. But it would be possible if you wanted to, but there's obviously no such thing in this country, because unfortunately, the government, the government coalition, they serve some lobbying, some cartels. Has now become so many of these lobbying, these cartels so powerful, with so much capital outside that they will now come as saviors and pick up our greatest pearl, this is the New Ljubljana Bank? But it will be said, foreign capital, foreign owners and so on. This will be followed by silent partners, silent owners who have legally collected loans through this bank, changed ownership structure and allocated profits to foreign banks, foreign banks, and now put pressure on politics again. It is, of course, an eminent political question of what property will be and which hands it will come into. How to trust you, ladies ministers, or in the government coalition, if, after two years of the current mandate and 12 years of the previous mandate for the most important strategic issues such as reforms, pensions, economics and so on, you do not sit together, you do not take a minute to discuss with the opposition, perhaps without cameras, have clearly and loudly disclosed certain matters and then drove this country together. You said that decisions would be taken in Parliament. No, it's not. Decisions will be taken in coalition. If we were to say in Parliament, it would be true if we were looking for a two-thirds majority, or if we were to look for a confidant for the department you run. You don't have that much correctness, and you don't have that much courage. We are towards the end of September, the year 2010 is slowly running out. Mr Križanič, I ask you here today: Will anyone be responsible for the non-exhaustible funds from the European funds? At this point, we are at risk of about 250 million euro unspent funds. Minister, I'll say thank you and take back the word if it turns out otherwise at the end of the year. The drawdown period 2007-2013 is therefore extended to the second half of N+3, of course 2010 is a turning point, so to this day what needs to be pumped must be, if not, we know that 1. 1. 2011 is no longer possible. You don't talk about such important things as strategic, you don't talk, you don't look for consensus, and you don't tell or explain certain things that you, as a government, a government coalition and ministers, you have to say that Members and Members of the National Assembly would decide responsibly and with discretion because they would have information. If we followed that, what happened two years ago wouldn't have happened. But if it is, we would come up with a proposal to harmonise it on reorganisation. We all know that the euro at local level is eloquent with at least two or three euros. We know that in the vast majority. And also part of the use of European Regional Development Funds – out of 600 million already 500 have been signed. This means another 100, for which projects have already been prepared. What do I mean? This segment is in the final drawing phase and will be 100 % pumped. If we had regionalisation, then today in several areas, even in economic areas, it could have been more developed, including in state infrastructure. And these are the strategic decisions that should be made more consensually. And the effort to do so may be on your part, which today or at this time you are managing the country. You have been offered this cooperation many times by the opposition and by the Slovenian People's Party, but unfortunately do not take advantage of it. I hope that today's debate will be well-intentioned in this direction, that recapitalisation will not be intended solely to solve some liquidity problems, but behind the liquidity problems, there are domestic silent tycoons who would like to take over these issues, like many others. And since I was here earlier, unfortunately, Minister Gaspari has appointed him in his debate, and I have not taken advantage of the opportunity of replica, I will now say. Yes, I laughed very seriously, because yesterday, with a question from the Members, we warned Minister Križanič that Minister Gaspari should read his papers and we will decide on the basis of his reaction. Actions promise the future, based on actions not on words.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposer of mags asked for the floor. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Today, many debaters have been told that the problem of the New Ljubljana Bank is mainly the management of this company. Many felt that this management was bad. If this management was bad — then what? Now what? What will be the consequences? Who will bear these consequences? Some, by the way, really just by the way, from this administration, which is supposed to run this bank badly, are running for some other important functions of some other banks where the co-owner is also a state. Is this the answer to the question of poor governance of the New Ljubljana Bank? And it would be good if Slovenian politics or, if you wanted, all the political parties, to be more precise, were also a little more self-critical. Self - criticism of themselves, self - criticism of their members, and even when it comes to a member of your party, would be appropriate. I think that in this case Slovenian policy would have a significantly greater reputation than it does now that it has virtually no one. You'd expect if this management was bad enough for people to answer for it. In the administration were people with names and surnames, including in the supervisory world, people with names and surnames who were responsible for doing business in accordance with their internal rules, in accordance with the principles of good governance, were called upon to ensure the efficiency of that bank to ensure the competitiveness of that bank. They were responsible, they received a salary, personal income, which, compared to many employees and workers, is unimaginable, they received awards, the president of the board even a million dollars - we still have no answer to what this reward is. I believe that people, Slovenians and Slovenians, too, expect measures from this policy, appropriate measures to be taken back and that there will be no such anomalies in the future. For a short time, I also talked to people who know the situation at Laško Brewery. The Laško brewery is doing well right now, with profits. But because of the stupid moves on his back, he's got some 100 million credits, asking if he'll be able to get through the payback, so to speak, these loans that were hired because of, I won't say, greed or anything else. It can happen to us that this good company will go to the contest, I don't know how to say it. It is likely that people who wait for it today will meet us there, and they will put it in their pockets. So far, there is no responsibility for these acts. I hope that, however, the competent authorities will process these matters as soon as possible. I think that would be good for the atmosphere in this country as well. There have been many today, and perhaps I too am to blame for this, expressed in terms of national interest. In any case, it is a national interest that each country, if it is, and I think that Slovenia is a country, has its own interest, has its own strategic and national interests. If that's not the case, then we can just sell out everything we have. We can sell banks, we can sell insurance companies, we can sell electricity infrastructure, from Eles to hydro power plants, to nuclear power plants, we can sell Luca Koper, railways, Geoplin, we can sell everything. I don't know what it'll be like then. We'll probably only be able to live in our country, but all the rest will be governed by others, foreigners who are supposed to be better than us, who are supposed to be smarter than us, who are supposed to be more capable of us. I don't agree with that logic. I believe that Slovenians, however, are capable enough, smart enough, wise enough to be able to manage them effectively with these key state-owned companies or with companies in which, at least in my opinion, Slovenia should have some interest in knowing how to manage them properly. I do not agree with the fact that foreigners are better. I don't agree with that because no one can prove it to me. I mentioned Lex's case. If we remember the relationship between Lek and Krk when we were selling Lek and what the relationship is today. Where's Lek today and where's Krka today? What does the Slovenian state have from Lek today and what does the Slovenian state have from Krka today? I think there's a significant difference here. At the time, we may not have done enough, we have made little effort on the part of the owners to try to bring these two important corporations or these two important companies together, if not capitalist, at least strategically. That would probably be much better for this country. One more case. In recent times, a number of companies have been opened up by foreigners. It's about shiny buildings that shine in such a way that it's nice to look at them. They employ 100, 200 Slovenes and Slovenes, and unfortunately neither these employees nor these owners want to tell us what their salaries are. For some information, it's minimal. If this is the interest of this country in attracting foreign investment in order for our citizens and citizens to work for a minimum wage for someone abroad, I think this is logic and this thinking is wrong. And it is right to focus primarily on our own domestic Slovenian economy and therefore we also need Slovenian banks that will service this Slovenian economy. Recently there has been a lot of talk about how they will be, and I have already mentioned that Slovenian construction companies will carry out important construction projects abroad, not only in Libya, but also about Bosnia, etc. Who's gonna vouch for this business abroad? What banks? Is this gonna be a hypo? Will that be Sparkasse, SKB? I find it hard to believe. Perhaps, but certainly in such a case, when it comes to projects that are supposed to last, these are the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who is supposed to stimulate economic growth in our country, so that such projects are likely to be accompanied by domestic banks. Much earlier, much earlier than those banks where foreign owners are. Those banks will certainly be accompanied by other companies. Those companies that come from their countries. That's logical and normal, because you don't have to be some big know-it-all guy. So, in my firm belief, there is a national interest in this area, there is, and it is right that we are discussing this in broad terms today. I see that there are not as many differences as I expected, as far as this property is concerned or thinking about what to do with the biggest Slovenian bank in the future. I didn't notice the big differences. So I expect in the future a thorough reflection in order to do everything and more to keep this biggest Slovenian bank in Slovenian hands, because I am convinced that this is the basis and basis for the Slovenian economy to compete more easily in demanding European markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The debate on the fate of state assets and the decision on strategic investments is welcome, even though some believe it is premature. It has been clear for a long time that in Slovenia there are two completely different concepts of development. The first concept comes from the 1990s and has its roots in neoliberalism, as some have mentioned today. After this concept, state and municipal property must be privatised. That is why people want to make sure that the state and the municipalities are unable to manage public property effectively. After this concept, the country should leave regulation in all areas and leave these areas to a private initiative. Since there is still an entirely private interest in capital, which would like to get to state and municipal property cheaply, this electricity is very strong in Slovenia. This electricity has money, this electricity has power. To reach out to hunters of private interest very high, we see in the content of certain laws, such as the RTV Act, which we are going to deal with today. We saw this in a decree on the sale of state property, with which the former Minister of Health wanted to sell three hospitals in Ljubljana, which we fortunately prevented and thus protected public interest. Regrettably, the Eminent Building on Prešeren’s Market ended within the time limit of the postal company in Liechtenstein, which remains a controversial case of the seizure of state property. The impact of capital is also reflected in extremely strong pressures after the transformation of public institutions into financial enterprises. In order to be able to spend the proceeds of the original public funds on non-public interest and to privatise public property. The second concept is the concept of the strict functioning of the State in the public interest. After this concept, the country should strengthen regulation and efficiency in managing its property with even better supervision. That this is necessary has also proved to be the case with the economic crisis. The countries, including Slovenia, are relatively successful in solving the economic crisis caused by capital and underregulation by public funds. Let us therefore take a look at the most developed countries, which protect their interests by holding in their hands banks, insurance companies, public services and for decades insist on the Institute of Public Servants, in areas vital to the country, such as health, social, military, police. Let us take a look at countries that do not come up with the idea of giving up their role after ensuring public interest, NLB, the Triglav Insurance Company and others, for the country and the population of the vital society, are strategic investments that need to be consolidated, to strengthen the control and influence of the State in the management of the company in a way that ensures those objectives which will make the state the owner of those companies. And advice to the government. In terms of development concepts, rely on a different concept, only this has proved positive in practice at home and in the world. They seem to be fighting both concepts at the top of the country. Maybe that's why some of the state in NLB wants to show worse than it really is to sell the bank. The government should only decide in accordance with national and also in accordance with public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that it is a pleasant thing to hear from the ruling species – or I must say this increasingly rarely happens – a voice of understanding, a clear simple thought, we could call it simple farming logic, which the Government should follow on several occasions in making its decisions. Unfortunately, such thoughts are becoming more and more rare, and so are actions. As a result, today's debate on the government's response to the issue of the sale of state property is also a result. Unfortunately, we are discussing in the absence of the President of the Government to whom these issues relate, and also in the absence of the entire government team. Until recently, the Minister of Finance, Mr Križanič, has insisted that he will also return, because it is likely impossible to persevere at all times in the Chamber without the basic needs being met. But it was the intention of the Prime Minister to listen to this debate. It is also because of the fact that, from his answers to individual questions, he understands that he does not understand the fullness of his function as prime minister. And that in this jealousy and incomprehensible work things that are not in the best interests of this country are in its favour, and thus also to citizens and citizens. One of the issues that is very important is how and how it will be managed manages state property. Although the question was reduced to two essential elements, one was the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the second establishment of a logistics holding company established in the link between the Slovenian Railway, Luka Koper and Intereuropa. Unfortunately, we are talking little about the latter, but I think that this project should be given just as many words as New LB and other matters. Above all, I would expect the Government, especially the Prime Minister, to come before this Parliament with clear answers, with clear views and with a clear strategy. Today, two years have passed since he was confirmed as a mandate holder in the National Assembly, it would be time for us to hear these clear thoughts once. Unfortunately for the past two years, we've been listening to nice promises, nice words, not to say, words, very few concrete things. Even this week, the Prime Minister did not disappoint us. In the case of logistics holding, there are also questions against which there are no clear answers. If it is possible to understand the integration of Luke and the Slovenian Railways, here is a big question where there is a freight forwarder here, with no clear answers, how and how this holding company is to be trained or modernised by rail infrastructure in this country, which is an essential condition for Slovenia to modernise in terms of traffic, to strengthen its mobility and to take sides with other developed European countries. There are no such answers, nor have we heard them today. As far as NLB is concerned, on July 12th, when he answered that question, he said, quote, "it is now up to the government to prepare a strategy. My secretary-general and I have determined that this will be ready by autumn." Autumn's here. And he also expressed his personal opinion, quote, "my personal opinion has been for many years that the Slovenian economy must have as a small and open economy a bank in which the country has a majority share. Today I am no longer of the same opinion," the Prime Minister said in the National Assembly on 12 July. Today, we are trying again to have a new opinion. His opinion was that the strategy would be proposed by the management of the new capital investment management agency. Thus, the administration of the new agency, which they have been looking for for for several months, because you obviously cannot politically consider who would be most professionally fit, will propose to the Government and the Government to the National Assembly a strategy for managing the financial investments of this country. This is the wrong world. This country has a strategy since the previous government. It was adopted in 2005. The state's investments are divided into three drawers and it needs to be examined whether this is right or whether any of this needs to be changed and said in what way. However, it is the task and responsibility of the Government, because it is the Government that has taken responsibility for the leadership of the country and thus for the management of the assets with which this country has the power on behalf of all of us. And it is illustrative to expect that the body which is a state para-state institution will set up a strategy. On the other hand, today we are listening to Minister Križanič, who speaks something similar to the Prime Minister, and we are reading in the media that the government is proposing an increase in the state share in NLB. We read further that this idea is favored by the Minister of Gaspari, who, just about half an hour earlier, was theorizing on this issue. So what is happening, and what is really happening, and who is the one who, on behalf of the Government in the background, under the cover of a para-state, draws the strings and influences decisions that will be taken or proposed? Are these really the lobbies that my predecessor of the ruling coalition had previously asked about? Is there also a government policy dictated here by lobbyists? If so, then it is very bad for all of us, and above all it is very bad for this country. The government should come with a clear strategy on how and how it sees the further development of the banking and insurance system in this country, as it came with someone, say in the notes, a strategy on logistics holding, Luke, Slovenian Railways and Intereurope. But at least there's something on the table, there's something to discuss, you can say opinions for and against. And here, after this intense time of two years, we still have nothing on the table. If we look only from the perspective of the current government, then we should decide as soon as possible in the National Assembly that the Government should be prevented from doing anything with state ownership, because it is a poor master, evident, in all segments. But when we talk about these things, we're not talking about two years, we're talking about the next 50 centuries, and that's why we need to make decisions that will be considered and will continue to apply, as far as logistics holding is concerned, and as far as banking, insurance and financial systems in this country are concerned. That the government, the current, is a bad master, but there are countless cases. I'm only going to tell you one of the most insolent and simplest that's been saved for two years, that's the falcon that's been sitting on the ground. If one such minor problem could not be solved within two years, how can strategic issues be resolved in this country?Oh, my God! And I'm going to move on with another minor problem. Last May, in the National Assembly, three young SD members took pictures with Minister Ljubica Jelusic and announced 929 apartments for young families. On the basis of this pear painting, the Ministry of Defence transferred several months later over 300 apartments to the Republic Housing Fund. Of these, 74 were unoccupied, the rest were occupied. From the answer – I sent the question to the Minister in the summer – it turns out that in a year the parastatal fund was unable to provide any of these 74 apartments. Not one. Why? Because they need to be settled because many years have failed because none of the governments so far have been effective in this area, nor have they, and because there has been no hearing for the congregations to arrange these apartments themselves, for which some have expressed their interest six months ago, 9, 3 months ago. These are just two minor cases that show how this current government is in the field of state property management and, of course, financial assets are also ineffective and inoperable. At the same time, we got into the parliamentary procedure a while ago a law that talks again about one parastatal institution, following the example of one called the Agency for the Management of Financial Investments of a State where administration has been sought for six months. Now we're going to get a real estate management agency, and that's not enough, we're going to get a real estate fund that's going to run these decaying real estates in such a way that it's going to take about two years to set up, set up records, see what he's going to do, and then maybe he'll get to work. Not to mention all other numerous agencies and para-state institutions that are supposed to ensure that they are managed as efficiently and economically as possible, without any direct impact. We have a government, we have enough ministries. Six months ago, the Prime Minister promised to cut them by a third, and there is nothing out of this promise that could be done without major consequences, and I think that even efficiency would be better. So we have a skeleton that allows for normal and economic behaviour, but we do not witness this with rare exceptions. And in this light, there is also today's debate, even as a result of this debate, the situation with this absence and the abstinence that we see will not improve anything. I seriously doubt that anyone will read what we are talking about today from government institutions, even less seriously think about this situation. When we discussed the management of financial investments or when we are discussing the management of financial investments and when we are talking about what kind of model would be appropriate for the New Ljubljana Bank, of course we should not be based on bad practices from the past. In doing so, we must find ways, if this country considers it important that it be strengthened financially and bankically through the State Bank, that it will not be the case that we have witnessed under the Government of the LDS, when it has been set up for the President of the Management Board of the Politically Loyal Person who, in order to reward the loyalty and service of loans to friendly and politically connected companies, paid a million Euros of prizes, and that it will not happen what happened at the beginning of this mandate when the LDS President appointed a man to sit here with us now in the National Assembly instead of the President of the LDS, the current Minister for Home Affairs and the current Member of the Tonet Anderlic, who has been elected as a member of the State-level elections. No, it was set up for the president of the administration, without a call, of course, because of the conflict between the LDS and Zares, this story has come to an unfortunate end, and now we have a man who is politically neutral again, and it is clear that he is politically highly profiled. As a result, loans are still being made to friendly companies, friendly politicians and friendly mayors for projects that will never return the funds that will be invested in them. We must not come from this data when we are discussing the issue of national and financial property management, but we must look further and we must also find ways and mechanisms through regulation to resist such temptations. Only in such a case, I think the government and the National Assembly will be able to find the right solution. In the 2009 final account, which we have also discussed today at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, there are some things that concern our biggest state banks. They are particularly concerned that the Court of Auditors finds that the funds invested in this bank by the State or Government, the Ministry of Finance, are not adequately secured and that there is also a lack of clear, transparent use of these funds. You will recall, dear colleagues, that in the National Assembly, after a few months in 2009, we adopted a law at the beginning of the year which allowed a financial mechanism of €12 billion to assist development projects of the state-guaranteed economy. Out of this, €2 billion was used. A billion and a half went to the New Ljubljana Bank of these guarantees and 500 million went to the Bank of Vipa. As far as the latter is concerned, this guarantee is covered to some extent, to some extent, if the decision taken by the Abank Assembly in the increase of the basic capital of EUR 15 million by EUR 500 million of guarantees is sufficient, in another case when it comes to the largest state bank, where we are talking about the billions and 500 million euro of funds that have been transferred with the guarantee to that bank, and the Court of Auditors finds that, if the NLB bonds are due to recover the guarantee given by the NLB, the Republic of Slovenia has established a claim to NLB, but without ensuring the level and the level of its remuneration. And the Court of Auditors also notes in this two-time negative opinion on the 2009 accounts that in 2009 the Republic of Slovenia issued a guarantee totalling EUR 2 billion to those banks, which is not adequately secured by the Court of Auditors’ assessment. Today, the debate has shown that the Ministry of Finance does not have a clear response and a clear review of whether these funds amounting to EUR 2 billion have really been used solely to assist the Slovenian economy in the re-engineering of the crisis, namely to launch new products, to provide new jobs, or was part of these funds also used for taycuniation, said for management acquisitions, for wild business ownership or re-financing of these loans? This reason is also one who would talk about this in a short time – the government does not have mechanisms or does not want it to be obvious that it would properly control the largest state bank in order to effectively manage it, so that we escape from it, get a strategic partner to ensure effective management and thus solve all problems. However, this is thinking, I reiterate, thinking on short notice and regardless of what the current government policy is, and despite the fact that this policy is poor and is ineffective, we need to keep on looking. And the decisions to be taken in this area in the coming days, weeks and months will have long-term implications for the further development of Slovenia and for the development of its economy, on the one hand, and also for the development of the financial system in our country, not least what has been said today, whether we will be masters of our own destiny in certain segments or only decision-makers, which will be made by others. I have not heard from either side of the government that I would also deal with this issue, which is not only an emotional, national, political issue, but also an issue that concerns the future development of this country. Indeed, the conditions for a more radical entry into the financial or banking system by the State are not the most favourable, and the summer implementation of the state budget this year is catastrophic. Yesterday, I was talking about 2009 being a bad year when 7.5 billion euros of revenue and 9.3 billion euros of expenditure were realised, and I said it would be worse this year. The Prime Minister disagreed. It's gonna get worse because that's what the results show. In the first half of last year, there were 3 billion and a half revenues of 3 billion 380 million, amounting to 120 million euros less. In the first half of last year, expenditure was 4.5 billion, with €200 million more this year, €4 billion. According to last summer's realisation, expenditure for billions exceeded income, and this year for a billion 320 million expenditure exceeded income. The situation is worse this year than it was last year. And it is true that this situation is not conducive to a more radical intervention by the State with a capital investment in any entity, but the State, if so decided, can do so in a different way. Of course, if the government is in control of the financial and real property of the country. But if it does not control it, then thinking in any strategy in this area is just thinking that will never bear fruit. In my opinion, too, the reference to the fact that the Agency for the Management of Financial Investments or the Administration of this Agency, when appointed, will propose a solution that the Government will then examine, reject or accept and give admission to the National Assembly is not the right way. The government should have a very clear strategy on this issue long ago. On this point, we should make a concrete decision and come to the National Assembly with it. It is personally unacceptable for me that Minister Gaspari after two years and after leading Banka Slovenije for a number of years as governor, he says, I do not have data on the 5, 10-year strategy of the New Ljubljana Bank. That's unacceptable to me. That is what he can say in the cabinet to his colleagues, in the National Assembly, when we expect clear answers to clear questions, and when we expect answers to the strategic guidelines regarding the largest state bank, there should be no such answer. That means something's really wrong. However, through the supervisory board, the government has mechanisms to reach these documents, to request them and to consider them on the relevant committees, to request additions, to confirm, to accept, whatever, but in such a way, at the level of some theoretics that measures the debate in a lecture room, to discuss them in the National Assembly when we expect to hear concrete answers to the questions raised, I do not think it is good that it is bad and also makes an impression in the public, which I have already said many times today, that there is no clear direction at government level on what is, of course, the worst. If the Government has found time and energy for a more thorough occupation of another area, which has also been discussed in this Member's issue, it is said to be dealing with this logistics holding company, then much more should find time, energy for this area as well. For more than this holding company, in my opinion, the issue of banking, insurance, financial orientation of government policy is important, because without this it is not possible to expect appropriate effects in other areas. On the previous question, however, we would like to have very clear answers, which will also be supported by calculations and data, how and how only the merger of some legal persons will allow the modernisation of railway infrastructure in our country. In our view, this will not be possible from the sources of these companies, but external resources will have to be made available to do so. As far as I know, the strategy was designed to involve a significantly higher share of European funds in this area by 2023. What we expect is a timeline by which these projects will be implemented. So today's debate could be very useful – I think even for the Government, even for the Prime Minister – if, of course, the competent ministers, especially Minister Gaspari, came to the National Assembly with appropriate proposals for decisions based on previous analytical assessments. However, I am so afraid that, unfortunately, this debate today will again be about telling each other what we think. We in the opposition are going to be a little more critical, criticise the behaviour of the current government, assess that it is justified. However, I see that, even in the coalition, at least what has been discussed so far, even in the coalition, you are not particularly satisfied with the way in which it operates in this area, which is called governance, the management of the state's financial and real assets and, consequently, the area that talks about the sale of this property, which is not strategic in the long term for the country. Since we only touched on two exposed cases, all the other cases, which are equally important and which cannot be ignored, remained somehow in the background. I think we should talk about this in full. As a result, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we expect, as soon as possible by the Government, not by the Administration of the Financial Investment Management Agency, but by the Government, to receive a very clear strategy on the table in this area, which will, in a similar way as the 2005 strategy, determine how, in what way, the State will involve itself in future financial investments in individual companies and whose investments it intends to participate with 50+1, which it intends to withdraw from. And that, of course, we will also get clear answers in this debate as regards the largest state bank and clear answers as regards logistics holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Hello! It was interesting to listen to a colleague for 25 minutes and find that he was unfortunately not listened to by anyone in his own party who was obviously so worried about making capital investments that he preferred to have a full lunch or a drink. But at the end of the word, they often manage to make a certain artistic impression. In this debate we have also heard four inaccuracies, which should be better defined before we continue. It has been said that it has been two years since Borut Pahor was confirmed as the mandate holder. Mistake! It won't take two years. It'll take less. Unfortunately, on such occasions we hear debates that try to be very accurate, but unfortunately eventually they turn away from what is real and what is true. About the Department of Defense's apartment. I am pleased that this initiative was observed in the opposition by my colleague Dejan Levanič, Matthew Frangež. And that it had some concrete result with the transfer of housing to the Housing Fund. But it's not entirely real. It's one of those mistakes again, and then in those 25 minutes, they keep saying that these apartments weren't distributed because they weren't arranged. There is a problem with many congregations because they do not want to share such apartments because of some selfish fear that they will be inhabited by people from lower social strata and, of course, they prefer to keep these apartments empty rather than to be allocated to some people. More specifically, this is supposed to happen according to my information in the Municipality of Ribnica. Of course, as bad as the state is, it depends on the operators. None of us would be a little overconfident to say that this coalition is doing everything great and that the previous coalition is doing everything wrong, it would be unfair to us and to you. But how could the state be a bad master, and we saw just about four years ago, when Mercator sold himself under the table in a hugely bad way, at a time of government that was also supported by the speaker in front of me. However, as regards the half-year report — the last inaccuracies — it is true that most, a large part of the national revenue is realised in the second half of the year, which is why the half-year report always has to be read with such a key that, of course, expenditure is generally carried out proportionally in months, while the revenues have certain moments when it is the largest inflow and it is more in the first half of the year than in the first. However, if we come to a debate on NLB, it makes sense to put forward three issues with which we can better understand what I am talking about. The first is that each country seeks sovereignty over its capital and financial markets, with which it hopes to be more able to promote the growth of the domestic economy. However, it is true - the answer to this thesis - that such sovereignty is no longer possible in the current globalised market for financial instruments. The second thesis. That state ownership over the main national bank ensures that this bank has a more understandable attitude towards the needs of the domestic economy. However, it should be noted that, in view of the current business policy of the NLB Administration, there is nothing to suggest that this would be the case. The third point is that the State can recapitalise the bank with its own resources, but we must not forget that it cannot afford this right now because it cannot afford additional debt. All of these three concerns suggest that the correct response to the State's role in Nova Ljubljanska banka is the one that leads to non-cooperation in recapitalisation and, as a result, a reduction in the State's share in this bank to a minimum control role of 25% + 1 share that can still be vetoed in any changes to the Bank's statute. But they have all three thesis on the other side that show the situation in a different light. Before responding to the first thesis that, in the current intertwined financial market, a country cannot maintain sovereignty on its own national market, it is worth noting that, although it does, it is true that even in the open market, a larger bank can have an important impact, setting the direction and speed at which the domestic economy can operate more or less successfully in the global economic ocean. The answer to the second question is that the operation of the NLB policy this year does not indicate that the domestic bank would have a specific understanding of the domestic economy is not the correct answer in favour of the decision on the gradual withdrawal of the NLB country. It is often regrettable that NLB's written policy is the result of the composition and functioning of the bank's management, which, in the last year, has made me particularly disappointed. It is here that the state would be able to act on its almost majority ownership stake and it is therefore important that this majority share is maintained, almost a majority share. The answer to the third point is that the state does not have money to recapitalise, but it also deserves consideration, as two elements cannot be forgotten that the country already has almost EUR 1.2 billion in deposits at the moment and that the recapitalisation can also take place by converting these deposits or working in equity. And the other element, if the state is in charge of making another investment, is not essentially on balance sheet B a real liability to cover costs, but is essentially a diversion of certain capital skills from one element, such as bonds, to another, to the bank. We see, therefore, that the key arguments for the country to withdraw from NLB ownership are not, in fact, true. In general, in the event of a relatively small domestic capital market, the withdrawal of the country would mean the likely arrival of foreign owners. And let's see how to get to the presence of foreign owners elsewhere in Europe, by knowing that we currently have a good 30% share of foreign banks in Slovenia. They have a significantly higher share in the eastern part of the European Union. Romania – 79%, Bulgaria – 83%, Poland – 72%, Czech Republic – 91% of foreign banks on the domestic market, Slovakia – 93%, Estonia – 97% of foreign banks on the domestic market. Let's see what it's like in the west or in the north. Austria – 23%, Italy – 12% of foreign banks on the domestic market, France – 13%, Germany – 11% and Sweden – 9%. Of course, no property in the economy is sacred. At a reasonable price, at which the revenues from the sale of Slovenia could carry out longer-term more important projects for our company than the ownership of the bank, there are not many, but there are, the sale of the share might also make sense. But only at the right price, which is today we definitely can't stand. We can't take it because it's a time of crisis, even though we're slowly digging out of it, and it's a bad time to sell. In fact, it's time to buy. In addition, the gradual withdrawal of non-cooperation in recapitalisation would also be a poor decision because the state could not survive the takeover premium and a question would be raised about the consequent potential damage to state property as a result. However, when we add to this that the current likely buyer of Colman Saks, who is under the plaza of criticism because of the negative role in the financial markets during the crisis and in opposition to the country's withdrawal from NLB, is now even more supported by non-cooperation in recapitalisation. In the beginning, the Prime Minister has skillfully asked the question whether the policy is determined to maintain state ownership in the NLB at all costs, but I think it is a wrong dilemma. The real dilemma is whether the country should sell or reduce its share of NLB at all costs? So also below the price, without a takeover premium, and even if the buyer is one of the worst possible buyers – Colman Saks, who, according to his experience in recent years, is unable to be trusted. I come from Kopra, the capital of Primorska, where we have already had a bitter experience with selling important banks. Years ago, the Bank of Koper became the property of the Italian Sanpaolo IMI, now owned by Intesa Sanpaolo, controlled by the power centers emanating from the Vatican. Are we really willing to accept the possibility that we will have to ask God for credit with NLB someday? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Blacky. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	We know who sold the Koper Bank and who's responsible for the sale. Your political friends, Comrade Yuri, did it. After the country was rehabilitated, they concentrated ownership in the hands of three companies and sold the bank with a large profit. Three things have been mentioned that I misspoke them in this implementation. With regard to the mandate holder, I don't know why it matters whether he was named "de jure" here in the National Assembly one month later or one month earlier. In fact, he was appointed as a mandate-holder two years ago when the result of the elections was known and who had won was known, and at that time a de facto mandate-holder was appointed. Mercator was sold under the table, it was said. It was sold substantially more transparently and in any case above the table than your former client colleagues did when selling hotels along the coast. Income in the second half of the year is usually higher than in the first half of the year, yes, but I didn't compare it. I compared the realization in the first half of last year and the implementation of the budget in the first half of this year. And last year's reality was negative 1 billion euros, realisation this year is minus 1 billion 320 million euros. By reducing the revenue by 120 million euros in the light of the first half of last year, so that there is no more confusion, and by increasing the expenditure by 200 million euros in the light of the first half of last year, there will be no mistake. And I'll tell you about 2008 for the first half of the year, 110 million euros was surplus at the expense of significantly higher revenues and lower expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is clear and right to sell off that property of a non-profit country or that the return is lower than the management costs. On the other hand, it is right not to sell ownership where there is large profits and long-term ownership in the sense that money flows from assets. Of course, the country's share of individual investments is another issue. I can say, depending on when you try to minimize it to 25 + 1 shares, or sell it from below the majority share. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to the state's attitude towards this property in individual cases. I agree that Mercator was sold transparently, but at an enormously low price, at least for about 50 billion Slovenian tolls at a reasonable price if it were sold wisely. The problem is that Kad sold his share to well - known members of the Governing Council, one of whom, for example, is still sitting in Kad’s supervisory council, and they did not blink when it came to selling it — on the one hand. On the other hand, the Supervisory Board was not upset when Kad bought shares of Hita at three times the market value, indeed for only a few million euros, but still. Not to say that the President of the Board of Inquiry once said to the Commission that the property was sold even by book value and, of course, by agreement with natural persons without auction, without tender and so on. The problem is that the control council doesn't work, that because of personal benefit people appear there according to some key client sharing of these positions and "nothing". Here's the biggest problem. And I will never agree to that. Therefore, I believe that it is high time to examine professionally what we will preserve as silver — if I may say so — and what is better to sell yesterday, instead of today or tomorrow, to get rid of assets that do not make profits and stop dealing with things just like that. I believe that the political issue is a decision on this, but look, a change in the regime of Kad to the agency, so the agency is supposed to manage Kad and Sod and property and so on. It is true that this agency is supposed to make proposals for the National Assembly, but it will again be the policy that manages these funds. In the coalition agreement, we wrote that Kad's assets, which represent long-term reserves for the stability of the pension fund, would be owned and managed by the PPIZ, which, if this happened, could, in the open market, be found by operators, irrespective of any or any policy, who would manage this property without external influence. And it didn't happen, and the thing is that there's another story going on that we're going to be back here or whoever's going to be sitting here and in the government and in the agency is going to be "ours" again, as it's called, managing this property, which I don't agree with. And that's why I won't support that transformation law. Because if we ever talked about what was written somewhere and signed with the worthless signatures of the four presidents of the parties, one would understand, but not one serious conversation ever came up. Signatures and agreements are a dead letter on paper, and of course, in this way it is difficult to spend good times in a coalition that has a thousand other things, despite keeping a word and following it. I am, of course, against selling that property of the country that brings profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rozjej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I believe in the sincere purpose of proposing this agenda item to discuss national interest or national identity, as has already been said here. In his reply, the President of the Government explained that everyone must have a different national interest, and Mr Žerjav also said in his speech that the national interest that the debate was supposed to be about today was a victim of the greed of the individuals who abused him. I, too, sometimes use the word greed in these parliamentary debates as a pretext for a major sin, which, we must admit, has driven the system in which we have been living for 20 years. Capitalism, at least that's how they taught me ethics at the Faculty of Philosophy, works in a desire for profit, says, based on greed. And if anyone thought it was any other way, he probably missed it for at least 20 years. So it was also rhetorically asked whether we could sell everything and how it would be then that we would be a province in the EU's periphery, just as we were the province of Belgrade or Vienna, so the question is, do we want to keep everything, because those who would like to keep it all have missed the system they live in for 20 years or more. In short, the middle road is that way, and on this middle road we already have some historical experience. The word identity was used, and as part of their identity they should also need funds or banks and savings banks to finance it. Since, as has been said by the proposer, we have no more macros left after joining the EU, but only micro policies. Well, this micro policy of conservation, lending and protobanking in Slovenia had an opportunity at a time when, for example, the predecessor of the present Slovenian People's Party was an absolute, not only economic and cultural force in Slovenia, look. And a bunch of farm loans and similar things have survived such and different turbulent times, and eventually, in this new system, it has merged with some others into the Country Bank of Slovenia. Let's see what are the balance sheets, say, the Slovenian Land Banks for 2008. What's her credit burden, and what kind of loans were they? They were on the balance sheet of the National Bank of Slovenia, you will find among all Slovenian banks, as a percentage of the size of the bank, most of the loans of Istrabenz. What kind of farmer's housekeeper and loan and heiress is this?Oh, my God! Where's the healthy farmer's brain that the proponents like to promote? By giving credit to the holder most built in the castles on the clouds, of course not. Who was the first man of this Land Bank, the heirs of this peasant conservation and all together with us? The same man who was later wanted by one of the coalition's parties to have the largest Slovenian bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, as chairman of the administration. Good news is that we are also members of the coalition and that this did not happen because such a scenario would really lead in an unwanted direction. And if we have learned something from our savings and borrowing, social and other cost-effective logic, we should be able to live beyond our means. Now, have we all done this through NLB loans in the last 20 years, I don't know, maybe? But we certainly know where our limit is now. And it is nice that NLB is some defender of national interest and that it defends this national interest in Trieste or, as was said, in the municipalities. But I'm not quite sure that this Slovenian national interest in the Boards of Defense has been so far since NLB had its own business there. There she was, as she was called, a karst grocery store and a loan from the same times that all Raiffeis' stores in Austria were built, remained there, and it was just the same interest she had been defending for decades, if not centuries before. So the question is, if you have to be so terribly exposed and boasting about where all the New Ljubljana Bank's businesses are. Perhaps this expansion to the southern markets or foreign markets, as has been said, is not necessarily a plus in itself. We need to know where, why and for what purposes, with the right foundations or with wrongs, we are expanding and who these Slovenian companies, who would like to spread abroad, whether these Slovenian companies are worthy of such programs and businesses, are truly worthy of these loans from the New Ljubljana Bank because they are Slovenian. Since they are Slovenian and are going to foreign markets, they are not yet worthy of trust and credit. And a thorough thought is needed, as in the predecessors of the New Ljubljana Bank, there was a thorough reflection. My great-grandfather was employed in the Ljubljana City Savings Facility, which was then home to the current bank of the National Bank of Slovenia. My grandmother grew up in that house, too. And I at the National Bank of Slovenia still see in some way the successor of the Ljubljana City Savings House. And the National Bank of Slovenia is the one who should maintain these criteria more than NLB itself, even though it is owned by the majority state. That is why we also have on the agenda of this meeting some laws that will strengthen the banking rules in this country, because since the National Bank of Slovenia has no longer function as monetary policy editor, at least not as much as it has before, since we have a common currency of the euro, of course the National Bank of Slovenia would not only be able to, but should take more time to set up stricter, more prudent, smarter banking market rules. Therefore, the exposure of Slovenian banks to this credit balloon would also be lower and the consequences would be lighter. I find it hard to believe that a country here, but not only a majority, but full of it, so to speak, the owner, has done everything. And certainly that the steps are now going in the right direction, but they could be faster and more thorough than they are now. Previous debates have also indicated that none of us here thinks that the New Ljubljana Bank is such a bad investment that it should be resold immediately. Nobody thinks the New Ljubljana Bank is such a bad investment that it should go bankrupt. We all agree, however, that the New Bank of Ljubljana may benefit, in the notes, from a forced settlement. In short, disinvestment, divestment of claims and perhaps here the state has more opportunities to help than with some direct recapitalisation. Of course, first of all, what Minister Gaspari has also said should be looked at in general what are the real results, what is the ownership of Bank Celje and, in short, only on the basis of the relevant data, how and what. I do not see any political or other kind of guilt as exclusive in the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana. One of the investigators we have in the National Assembly has also raised the question whether it is believed that the credits in Nova Ljubljanska Banka are shared more favourably by friends in this or that political field, the thesis was from our colleague Visiak, and the former President of the Supervisory Board, proposed by the previous government, has categorically argued that this is not the case. Mr Černač also spoke about the fact that the Government has all the levers, any government, to access relevant data through the Supervisory Board, so that he could probably also abstain from any judgment if he knew that the President of the Supervisory Board of the Ljubljana Bank, set up by his Government, was of the opinion that there was a professional, legal and non-political nature in the Ljubljana Bank. And our shared responsibility is – perhaps because of this, too, the qualified majority of people in this Parliament have decided that we would like to lead the debate on this issue – to make a smart decision, where and how to proceed with this bank. It is clear, however, that the state will not lend money to anyone else, nor to the New Ljubljana Bank, just and only in a good name, as some managers or tycoons have been able to obtain money from some banks, if you will. Even less, the state will lend money on a friendly basis, as some issuers of free political pamphlets received before the last parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	Nice greetings to the Minister, all present! In view of the fact that the Supervisory Board has adopted a proposal for the recapitalisation of NLB, it is necessary to respond to the extent to which the State will participate in this recapitalisation. Therefore, a capital investment management strategy should be prepared. This was also the conclusion of a recent meeting of the Committee on Finance. I believe that the adoption of this decision was very important in a situation where reckless moves could have unfathomable consequences. As long as this strategy is not in place, we can only draw on the ownership of banks in foreign experience, especially in times of financial crisis. The crisis has just shown how important banks are in financing economic development. Banks are actually the backbone of the economy. But before we look back on some foreign practices, we should think a little bit about the popular thesis that has been served to us for years — the country is a bad master. Unfortunately, in certain cases this is true. There's too many cases like this. However, secondly, it is as if private banks are already a guarantee of success. There is no doubt that private-owned banks are seeking and striving for the greatest possible success, and that they also benefit from successful and harmful receptions for owners in the long term. I don't mean to obligate what we all talked about a year ago, about the American credit balloon, about the financial pyramid that took us behind and, unfortunately, only the wrinkles taught us a little bit. They are also very late in the European Union by adopting regulatory measures in this area, unfortunately. Well, profit was on the move, but it's not a guarantee of social balance. So the country is supposed to be a bad master. Allowable thinking, if said by an economist, is inappropriate if spoken by a government official. It would be acceptable for a government official to take this as self-criticism. But it is unacceptable to point your finger at the country as if the government had nothing to do with it. Who has the levers of regulation, the human resources control policy? Some kind of imaginary state? What approach, what path do you take? The first is the path leading to the elimination of anomalies, to improving the state of the majority of the country's share, to changes in the way it is managed. Another way, perhaps even easier, is by handing over business, perhaps even surrendering and succumbing to foreign interests. Although I was told not to make comparisons with Lek, today this has been repeated, I will be brief. The comparison is supposed to be inadequate already because we have a pharmaceutical company on the one hand, on the other hand a financial institution, but there is still a lot in common. I do not want to argue that the sale of a successful pharmaceutical company at the time, at least as regards the purchases themselves, was poor. As a strategic decision, however, it is wrong, harmful to our national interests, which are not popular to talk about. We've used up the purchase, the source has dried up. Who were these people who stood up for this sale? In this place, however, we find another famous thesis that is also spreading among the economists of the government coalition. It doesn't matter who owns it, what it says on his shirt and what color it is, it's just that it works well. Who says Novartis doesn't do well? Today, however, we ask ourselves from a distance of time, what does the Republic of Slovenia have in the broadest sense of the word? What do we citizens get out of this? The thesis, "no matter who, the main one, is doing well" also has its sequel. She's good at business, and for who? Where are the profits going? Where is the capital being pooled, where is it invested? What is Lek today, after a decade, perhaps a successful warehouse or just more? It will be an NLB in the future, I don't know, a subsidiary, maybe just a subsidiary of foreign financial corporations, a business, a grocery store, one, the other, a third option – all bad. It is interesting, however, that it is those who have worked abroad for years and have adopted ideas, Mr Bajuk, Mr Gavar, Mr Gaspari, that bring this into our space, perhaps I have already said too much. I'm done with names. The first one's too far and the other one's too close. God knows where the international capital hunters go. The NLB has passed a stress test, not with an honor, but not bad. As the central bank, despite slow growth, NLB is a stable financial institution and, as has been said, has many times been extremely important for the Slovenian economy. In spite of all the legitimate criticism in management, I am also joining in that certain loans have been politically affected, and this bank is interesting for foreign takers. We have an extensive analysis ahead of us, an internal material, many have already cited the figures in this material, which further substantiate me that simply leaving a majority share to a foreign partner can be a risky matter. However, unfortunately, I am skeptical of the model of reciprocity. There is too much difference between the small country, the large country, the foreign multinational or the local bank. Unfortunately, there are no rules of fair competition on the world market, not on the financial market, which is another reason. The rules should still be substantially changed. Even large economic and financial states do not leave matters to the free financial market, for no reason whatsoever. Is the control share of 25 + 1 shares sufficient security mechanism to prevent the outflow of capital and financial investments far away from the non-return side? Will Slovenia be able to prevent weaknesses brought about by the majority foreign ownership of banks through its control? The case of state ownership in Vegrad with 29% shows all the powerlessness of the minority shareholder. The control share has some functions, certain protective mechanisms – amendments to the statute, recapitalisation and so on, and it is almost over. In view of the fact that the main decisions are taken by the majority owner, which would have been a NCB or any other foreign financial investment, these decisions would have been taken in the country of the bank’s owner and not where the bank is located. We have even given sufficient thought to what the majority share of a foreign partner — other consequences, the loss of Mercator and Lashko already in the first package — is difficult to list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the President will not discuss it. Mrs. Breda Bakan? She won't discuss it. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj? [[He won't.]] Dr. Paul Gantar? He won't. Janez Fish will not be here. There won't be a Slapnik. Aloysius Potočnik will not be. Joza Tanko won't. Loyce Posede won't be here. Mag. Radovan Žerjav? He won't. Flowers of Zalokar Orazem – no. Mag. Andrej Vizjak – no. Renata Brunskole – no. Does Minister Križanič want more on behalf of the government? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	I would just like to thank the Members on behalf of the Government for the full debate. As we say, when we adopt the country's capital share management strategy, this debate will in fact continue and be reinforced by the relevant decisions of the High Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Magg also wants a proposal. Radovan Žerjav? He doesn't want to. Nevertheless, I must say that all the debaters you wanted got the word that you still have a chance to report if you want, because time has not yet run out. So I'm asking, does anyone else want to sign up for the debate? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say a bill on amendments to the Mining Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you are, Dr. William Pšenicny, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I must be honest with you that I would like to apologize to our Minister, who is on her way to the companies for the floods and other things that are happening, and she has authorized me to say a few words about this law today. The text of the proposed law was laid down by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 96th regular meeting on 2. 9. and sent him to the National Assembly to be treated by an emergency procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act be considered on an urgent basis in order to prevent such difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which may arise due to the absence of a legal basis for ensuring the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the obligations of legal and natural persons and the conduct and decision-making of the competent authorities in the field of mining in the transitional period following its entry into force and before the application of the new law adopted 10. 8. This situation was caused by the awkwardly recorded dictatorship of Article 157 of the Mining Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 13 July. The occurrence of severely remediable harmful consequences for humans, property and the environment is particularly threatening in the area of the abandonment of mandatory inspection controls. In the area of mining, the law in Article 155(1) provides that the Mining Act shall expire on the date of the application of this Act. However, the Mining Act does not provide that this law applies until the application of the new law. As a result, there is no legal basis for decision-making in the period from 10. 8th, as I mentioned earlier, by 1. 1. 2012. Secondly, the proposal for a law should also be considered following an urgent procedure because, at the time of the adoption of the law, it was considered that the Law on Services in the Internal Market had already fully transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Services in the Internal Market and that this Directive was therefore deleted by amendment to Article 1 of the Mining Act in the process of its adoption. For we have proposed it. However, since it was later established that the Law on Services in the Internal Market does not fully transpose that Directive, such as certain other provisions, now needs to be supplemented by Article 1 of this Act, we are simply returning what was deleted at the time of adoption. However, since the European Commission has already sent a reasoned opinion on the non-notification of national rules for the transposition of the mining directive, it is therefore necessary to partially notify that Directive as soon as possible. The draft law therefore complements Article 1 of the Mining Act by partially transposing into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. We propose that the law be adopted quickly and that it be found that, because of the awkwardness that has taken place in the adoption process, it is simply a matter of correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary, Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law at its 26th session, on 14 September, as its parent working body. The Committee was attended by a representative and representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Legal and Legal Service and the Office of the President of the Republic. None of the qualified applicants submitted amendments to the bill. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and did not comment on the proposed solutions to the law. In an introduction to the explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy presented the tasks of adopting the draft law, its basic objective and main solution. He stressed that the Government had proposed to the National Assembly that the draft law should be dealt with in an urgent manner in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. These could be due to the absence of a legal basis for ensuring the protection of the rights and fulfilment of the obligations of legal and natural persons, and to the procedure and determination of the competent authorities in the field of mining during the transitional period following the entry into force and before the application of the law. However, this situation has been caused by a somewhat awkwardly recorded doctrine of Article 155 of the Mining Act, which has been duly corrected by the proposal for a law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the service did not comment on the bill. However, it further highlighted the provision of Article 5 in particular and explained in some detail why the service did not express its concerns in its written opinion. It is an implementing provision, and it also provides for the application of the law from 10 August 2010, which means that it has a retroactive effect. Among other things, it did not point out this provision because the drafter was aware of the fact that the proposed solution was retroactive and had therefore taken a very detailed and reasoned approach to its justification in the explanation of the article. In the context of the joint debate, the members of the Committee supported the bill in principle in all articles of the bill and did not discuss its concrete solutions in more detail. They asked a few questions, particularly whether the legal void in question could have had serious remedial consequences. At the same time, they also pointed out some specific economic operators who are already facing some business difficulties because of the situation. With regard to this issue, the representative of the Government explained that the appearance of severely remediable harmful consequences threatens mainly in the area of the exemption of the statutory inspection. If a mining accident had occurred, the mining inspection would have no legal basis for appropriate action. In fact, the legal void has also led to a certain stalemate in the granting of concessions. Some other questions were also raised, on which the government representatives provided appropriate clarifications. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal. Given that the Committee has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	Mr Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Each time we overlook the details that are equally important in the law, we overlook both the content and the technical details of the law, but unfortunately they do not receive enough attention. That is exactly what happened in the Mining Law, which we adopted at the National Assembly in July this year and which was confirmed by it. The preceding provisions of the Act leave a legal void in the field of mining and, therefore, there can undoubtedly be irreparable consequences, at least for part of the mining profession and not least for the whole country of Slovenia. In order to prevent these, we must urgently adopt the amendment of this law, as it is before us today, thereby limiting the damage as much as possible if we cannot prevent it in its entirety. We will therefore unanimously support the changes and additions to the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From 10. 8. 2010 when the Mining Act, Official Gazette, Nos. 61/10 and 62/10 of the amendment, which does not apply until 1 January 2011, does not apply until the application of that law, the provisions in force which would apply from the time of application until the application of the law cited. The law cited in paragraph 1 of Article 155 provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, the current mining law shall cease to apply, and in the second paragraph of this Article, that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, those provisions and parts of the provisions of the Construction Act shall cease to apply there; however, it does not provide that the law, provisions and parts of the provisions which cease to apply from the date of its entry into force shall apply until the date of application of the ZRud-1 and therefore, in the field of mining, there is no real basis for deciding within the period of 10. 8. 2010 to 1. 1. 2011, which is what this novel wants to fix. The Government has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act should be considered by means of an urgent procedure in order to prevent the serious remedial effects on the functioning of the State which could arise due to the absence of a legal basis for ensuring the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the obligations of legal and natural persons and the conduct and decision-making of the competent authorities in the field of mining during the transitional period following its entry into force and before the application of the new law. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at a meeting of 10. 9. 2010 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Such a situation occurred because of the awkwardly recorded dictatorship of Article 157 of the Mining Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 13 July. Harmful consequences for people, property and the environment are particularly threatening in the area of abandonment of mandatory inspection in the field of mining. However, the Mining Act must also be supplemented by a concrete transposition of the European Parliament's Directive on services in the internal market into our legal order. The draft law therefore complements Article 1 of the Mining Act by partially transposing this Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. If there is an assessment of the admissibility of the retroactive effect of this law, it is within the competence of the Constitutional Court, so we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which we are considering under urgent procedure. In order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which may result from the absence of a legal basis for ensuring the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the obligations of legal and natural persons and the procedure and decision-making of the competent authorities in the field of mining during the transitional period following the entry into force and before the application of the Mining Act, that is from 10. 8. 2010 to 1. 1. 2011. The occurrence of severely harmful consequences for humans, property and the environment threatens mainly in the area of the abandonment of compulsory inspection in the field of mining, for which the legal basis for the implementation of the Mining Act-1 was the repealed Mining Act. The proposal for a law should be dealt with in an urgent manner. Because of 10. 8. 2010 when the Mining Act entered into force until its application 1. 1. 2011 There are no applicable provisions of the law applicable to mining that would apply between the time of entry into force and the application of the law cited. The law cited in paragraph 1 of Article 155 provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, the Mining Act shall cease to apply and, in the second paragraph of Article 155, that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, those provisions and parts of the provisions of the Construction Act shall cease to apply. Since the Mining Act-1 did not provide that the law, provisions and parts of the provisions which cease to apply from the date of its entry into force apply until the application of the Mining Act, there is no legal basis for deciding between 10 August 2010 and 1 January 2011. Article 1 of the Mining Act 1 is added to the draft law by partially transposing Directive 2006/2023 of the European Community, the European Parliament and the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is probably understandable that we, in our party, will also support this law because I cannot imagine what it looks like the Mining Act will end on August 8th. So the one that works. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2011, and there shall be nothing in between. But that nothing is just on paper, so it's a legal void. But those who are involved in mining law are large. There has been inconsistencies, the superficiality of the lawmaker, and I think it is right that at least such content as the validity of the law should be taken a closer look. That is why I also accept the explanation of the Legal and Legislative Service that, despite the violation of Article 155 of the Constitution, which explicitly prohibits the validity of the law backwards, there are also articles that allow the law to be adopted back, that is to say, as it is today, because it prevents consequences. In addition, this law also introduces something we have forgotten in Article 1, so it is a notification in Brussels that we have introduced part of the 2006 Directive, which we will also have to introduce into other laws. In this case, we are not as educated as what the content of the directive is, but we believe that the Government knows what it is doing. In the Slovenian National Party, we will therefore support this law because we cannot allow a legal void that can either prevent someone from doing his work or allow him to do what he wants. There's too many of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which is now on the agenda. As is known, we have recently passed a mining law that entered into force with 10. 8. 2010 but its use is not determined until 1 January 2011. This resulted in a legal void until the application of that law began, and there are no applicable provisions of the law that would apply between the time of application and the application of the law. The amendments and additions to the law thus fill the legal void and establish an appropriate legal basis until the application of the law already adopted. In addition to these amendments and additions, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market is partially transposed into law by supplementing Article 1. Since the law is primarily about technical changes and additions, we will support the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been received by the mother labour body to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE RELATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH SLOVENIA EXTERNAL LIMITS. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to Dr. Jeshu, Director of the Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenians outside its borders is a law amending or supplementing the provisions of a bill adopted four years ago. At that time, it has been shown that certain provisions on the law in force, due to the dynamics of the situation and the easier implementation of the law, the scope of the act and the absence of previous regulatory experience in this area, need to be corrected and supplemented. The draft law provides for the possibility of concluding multi-annual contracts to finance programmes and projects of minority and local organisations. The current regime, which allowed only one year of funding, represented unnecessary administrative burdens for these organisations. Next. The bill specifies the number of beneficiaries of special recognitions for the long-term teaching of the Slovenian language. The basic conditions for obtaining this recognition and also the basic conditions for obtaining the award for an important contribution to the preservation of Slovenian culture abroad are also laid down. The competent authorities for determining the allocation and financing of allowances shall also be specified. The bill also sets out more clearly the authorities involved in the implementation and financing of repatriations, if any. The mandate of two government consultative bodies; the Council for Slovenians in place; and the Council for Slovenians in the world, which will last for five years. In addition to this, some minor changes, mostly editorial, are made to the law or to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. Mr. Gorenak is gone. Does anyone else want to do it on behalf of their mother's working body? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miro Petek has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. At the same time, we regret that this law had to be dealt with twice on the basis of the lack of seriousness of the coalition members at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and that we have dealt with the same situation on the labour force twice. This law could have long ago been given a green light at the light of the Prime Minister's light, but the truth must be added that today's law is still better than what is stuck in the parliamentary procedure. At the same time, we were dissatisfied and moderately satisfied with this law in the SDS Group. Unsatisfying that the bill-maker wanted to erase Slovenian Roman Catholic missions from the law, which would be unfair for these missions not to find another expression. Satisfied, however, that he eventually overcame reason and that Roman Catholic missions that have a special meaning for maintaining the world’s vocabulary are also preserved in an expanded dictatorship. On this issue, it was revealed that the competent minister, Žekš, did not advocate such a deletion, but insisted on the Ministry of Justice or an official at the Ministry, who apparently remained in another time of the past. However, the alignment between Minister Zhekš and Zalar gave birth to a dictatorship that is acceptable to all. We feel that it is inappropriate and unnecessary for us to open an ideological fight in such a law and open up the wounds of many people who have left Slovenia for such or other reasons. For this law is written for them to send a message to them that we are all Slovenians, wherever we live, and that the country of Slovenia does not care about all the relatives who are around the world, and that we also want to preserve the Slovenian word, culture and identity in the world with the help of this law. The amendment of the Committee to Article 14 which has adopted the amendment of the Office and has also followed the intention of our Group's amendment shows that these issues can also be agreed that consensus can also be reached on these issues. Everyone who visits Slovenians around the world knows that Slovenian Roman Catholic missions abroad are much more than a church space or a church ceremony. Dori in Berlin or the Bells of Strubelj in Stuttgart or Krizologist in New York, if I mention only some of them for a limited time, not only perform religious missions, but mainly spread and preserve Slovenian culture, language, Slovenian identity. Among the majority people in various countries where Slovenians live, however, they spread behaviour about Slovenia and Slovenians. In the premises of Slovenian parishes around the world, Slovenian schools, cultural and, of course, entertainment events are also bad for us, so by deleting the dictatorship of the Slovenian Roman Catholic mission in Parliament, they would show us our delicacy. The end is good, but of course everything is not necessarily going to be all right. If, in this mandate, the Office is going to engage in the new writing of the law or intervene in the existing law with even more radical changes, then this should be done in a delicate manner, with less revolutionary logic and a desire for various deletions and divisions. As we say, we will support this change of law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The bill before us today provides, inter alia, for a new mandate of two government consultative bodies – the Council for Slovenians around the world and the Council for Slovenians in a five-year replacement. This ensures the smooth and continuous functioning of government worlds. The possibility of concluding multi-annual contracts to finance programmes and projects of minority and local organisations is being regulated. The current regime allowed only one year of funding, which represented unnecessary administrative burdens for these organisations. The competent authorities for determining the allocation and financing of allowances shall also be specified. The draft law also sets out more clearly the authorities involved in the implementation and financing of repatriation. Similarly, a range of beneficiaries for special recognitions for long-term voluntary and unpaid teaching of Slovenian languages abroad is set out. We are pleased that there has been a unanimous decision regarding Article 14. A little surprised by the attempt by the opposition's largest party to attempt to ideologically point out the purpose of "crime" by the government to erase someone from the question, which was only a question of equality between citizens and entities supported under this law. Even in the previous proposal, no one was deleted from Article 14, and Roman Catholic missions were granted all the rights they had after the previous dictatorship, except that these rights were aligned with all other entities, i.e. legal persons acting in a non-profit manner. But to avoid misunderstandings, we understand that the unanimous decision is better, better, because it will not offer the opposition a reason for defaming the government and this law. The law is balanced, the law is also based on legal logic, which has nothing to do with revolutions or ideological issues, so in the Group of Members we will really support this proposal in all specific and agreed dictions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President, Secretary of State with fellow Slovenian Ministry employees in place and around the world! Especially to Rudy Merlyak, one of the authors of the Slovenian Act worldwide, was a coauthor or one of the main actors in the establishment or preparation of this law. So since 2006, when the law was passed in the National Assembly and we were happy and proud that this law had seen the light of the world, it was announced ten years earlier, then there was a Resolution on the Slovenians in substitution, then a Resolution on the Slovenians in the world and finally we reached the Slovenians Act living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. The law at that time showed that it was good, but of course there were certain needs for operationalization. And these operationalisations and these changes have taken place, i.e. technical changes, corrections, but they have not been or would have been a substantive change if the Committee on Internal Policy had not had so much sense and intelligence that it returned to law what went out in place and in the world by voting. This means that we would exclude one of the most important segments of the preservation of Slovenian language, Slovenian culture, Slovenian identity, that is, the Slovenian Roman Catholic mission and missions of other religious communities. As has already been said, those who deal with the problem of Slovenk and Slovenes around the world are more intensive, we know, we know where the real information is, where the data is, where the archives are, who and what he did during the former communism to preserve the Slovenian language, Slovenian identity, around the world. That the most deserving Slovenian Roman Catholic missions are here, substantially more than, of course, some immigrant queen or something like that, which, of course, I do not want to discuss here today. It is important, of course, that media provision is also provided through law for our Slovenes and Slovenians in place and consultation. And just as media care is taken care of, in my mind I do not have an Internet flood, which is one way or another, but a purely written Slovenian word, it means a magazine that Slovenians and Slovenians receive and create, work and come between them to keep it that way. As far as I know, otherwise that five-year tender period will somehow expire at the end of this year, after all likelihood. Whether it will be new or will be extended to this magazine publisher is, of course, a technical issue, the matter of the Ministry of Slovenians in place and around the world, but the most important thing is that it also remains. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will now support the changes to the law, but if, of course, what I was talking about was the Slovenian Roman Catholic Mission and the mission of other religious communities, then of course the law would not be the whole, the law would not reflect what was happening so much a century ago. For this reason, of course, we will support the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we strongly want to come to a debate in the National Assembly following the amendment of this law on the conclusions that were adopted at the last 10th meeting, where one of the conclusions was also to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to give the Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia the right, i.e. the possibility of direct representation in the National Assembly. As you know, this requires a change in the Constitution, a change in electoral legislation, a brief two-thirds majority and slowly, at least I hope that in this area we will also find consensus in the National Assembly and, in this case, leave the political definition, but what is good for the Slovenes and Slovenians who live outside the borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support amendments and additions to the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. Taking care of Slovenians in place and around the world is a constitutional category that ensures that Slovenians enjoy special rights and benefits without our nationality, which sets out a special law that has emerged in the awareness of the importance of our fellow citizens' contribution to the preservation of the identity of Slovenia. The Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders is a bill of arms and in a comprehensive manner governs most of the areas affecting Slovenians in place and around the world and does not regulate or supplement the sectoral legislation that we are going through. Today, after some four years of validity, this law is being supplemented and amended for the first time by reasons of improvement in the text, which, following the proposed amendments, will be clearer, more precise, more precisely, and more precisely, to implement the legal provisions into the sub-legislative acts and, of course, to implement them in practice. The proposer also ensured that the provisions of this law were also aligned with other laws. Some changes are of a substantive nature. We have assessed them as reasonable and necessary in order to determine more specifically the rights of the contribution to the preservation and development of Slovenian language and culture. We believe that the transition to the implementation of new ones has been set by sufficient debt to allow recognition to be applied to those who would fall out of recognition under the new regulation. However, the Office's promise is that it will, at this time, ensure the intensive information of the Slovenian community abroad so that, until now, the beneficiaries, who will no longer be able to make provision after the new dictatorship, can make a timely application for the granting of permanent recognition for the long-term and free teaching of the Slovenian language abroad. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with and support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear Mr. Vice President, your honors are here! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders is a law which is proposed, supported by all institutions which have been touched in some way and introduced certain changes which allow and extend the circle of applicants who can request financial support in the implementation of projects in the field of cooperation with Slovenians in substitution and around the world, which has been limited and did not allow for the implementation of activities in the field of education, sport and various cultural activities, which are certainly linked to the costs that have been borne by emigrants around the world so far by their own resources. For the consciousness and belonging of the Slavic have always prevailed, so that the culture and language of the Slovenians were preserved only by the merit of these people, to whom belonging means more than some in their homeland. The proposed law particularly highlights the possibility of concluding multi-annual contracts for financial support for projects and programmes, which have so far been valid for only one year. The bill also defines more precisely the recognition fees for Slovenians around the world, who have been teaching Slovenian for decades in place and around the world. Certainly, the Slovenian Roman Catholic mission, the evangelical mission and missions of other communities, which have played a very important role in history, even when it comes to the independence of Slovenia, must not be excluded. To whom should we thank for the preservation of Slovenian culture and language, if not to those people who, with all their modesty and self-sacrifice, have almost remained anonymous, and today we are talking about entering into the law as unprofitable individuals of private law. I think it would be right for the law to be written down as they are called, at least by those communities we credit the most to, but for the others I don't mind, if they are called, non-profit individuals of private law, because I believe that these are quite something. As far as recognition is concerned, it is right to duly evaluate the recognition and to place it in the law, so that the beneficiaries of such recognitions will feel that their efforts and the work they have done all these years have not been in vain to be evaluated by their country, so that they too can enjoy a decent life during the third life period. We'll be happy to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders was adopted in 2006. At the time of the adoption of the law, in practice, in particular in the drafting of sub-legislative acts and in the implementation of the provisions of the law, it has been shown that the text in certain parts is not sufficiently precise, inter alia, setting out the precise tasks and responsibilities of the competent authorities. Thus, it is not substantive corrections, but merely technical, editorial ones, which means that the objectives and principles of the current law remain unchanged. By amending and supplementing the law, the possibility of entering into multi-annual contracts to finance programmes and projects of minority and local organisations is more specifically regulated in the first place, as the current regime allowed only one-year funding, which represents unnecessary administrative burdens for these organisations. The bill newly sets out the number of beneficiaries of special recognitions for long-term voluntary and unpaid teaching of Slovenian language abroad. The basic conditions for obtaining this recognition as well as the basic conditions for obtaining a recognition for a particular contribution to the preservation of Slovenia and Slovenia's culture abroad are also clearly laid down. The competent authorities for the award of allowances and their financing shall also be specified. The proposal also sets out more clearly the authorities involved in the implementation and financing. The proposal for a new law regulates the mandate of two government consultative bodies, the Council for Slovenians in place and the Council for Slovenians in the world, which will last for five years. The main debate on the proposed amendment to Article 14 was on the working body and on the Internal Policy Committee, as some members expressed concerns as to whether the Slovenian Roman Catholic missions and missions of other religious communities should be specifically and explicitly mentioned, while others expressed their conviction that it was precisely the Slovenian Roman Catholic missions that should be explicitly mentioned in light of their historical and current important role. At this point, the minister explained that it was not a desire to eliminate anyone, in this case a Roman Catholic mission, but a change in the opposite direction, an expansion of the circle of entities. Therefore, the missions remain in law, and accordingly a range of entities that can or may contribute to greater visibility, role and integration of Slovenians in the Council is being adequately extended. We support the proposed solutions in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Hello, everyone! We support the proposed amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats, also because we believe that this change and supplement is beneficial for the Slovenians around the world. It is a matter of regulating the financing of minority domestic organisations, as funding will also be two years and so on after the bill has been adopted. A new award is made for Slovenians abroad who have worked without pay for many years in Slovenian teaching. The range of beneficiaries of this recognition is also better defined. It is also clearly defined which public authorities are involved in repatriation procedures, saying return of Slovenians to their homeland. The contents of the Law were also coordinated with interested organisations, and their comments were also taken into account, but not all of them. We will also support the draft law in the Social Democrats' Group, and we expect this novel to bring less administrative burden on organisations in obtaining funding for their operations in maintaining and developing Slovenian identity outside the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Havela beautiful. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of too long a law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENISH FILM CENTER, THE PUBLIC AGENCY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Dr Stojan Pek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Dear President, honourable Members, good day! The Slovenian Film Centre Act, authors, producers, including actors, gives them a public agency that will provide comprehensive, developmental and European comparable care for the Slovenian national film and audiovisual programme. The Agency, as foreseen by the Slovenian Film Centre Act, has a new more appropriate legal status, has built-in solutions for more transparent financial operations, has new extra-budgetary sources of funding, requires a funding structure that motivates more independent producers to participate – in co-productions, and especially relies on some weaker or more demanding genres such as children, youth, documentary, animated film. Allow me to summarize briefly what has happened in the preparation of this law since June 18 when you first confirmed that the law is on the right track in this congregation. After a public presentation on 28 June, in dialogue with all professional associations and companies of film workers, producers, directors over the summer improved the composition of the Council, adapted the funding cycle of the film production specification, clarified the VAT dilemma and clarified the sanctions for non-compliance with certain provisions. These improvements are visible through the amendments presented, pre-debated, voted at a meeting of the Committee on Culture on 2 September. After second reading, the Committee noted that the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly had removed the only dilemma with regard to the word in particular, which we have now eliminated and thus prevented any inconsistencies in the implementation of Article 17. So this is the content of one amendment. On top of that, for the last time, we had the opportunity to correct one non-life policy in the dialogue with the expert on the obligation to review, which made much more sense, as is now envisaged in the amendment to Article 15, which relates to the level of the budget invested, rather than to the entire budget of the project. Therefore, with these two final corrections, honourable Members and Members, at the Ministry of Culture and in the Government, we believe that we can say that we are coming before you through a law that is the result of long-term but ultimately successful coordination, which has succeeded in summarizing the demands of the profession, the possibilities of television, European comparable practices and the expectations of the public. We therefore propose that you support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft law, which was tabled following a regular procedure, at its 19th meeting on 1 September this year. Prior to that, on 28 June 2010, a public presentation of the opinions was carried out and a general debate was also held at the 18th regular meeting on 18 June this year. At that time, it was decided that the proposal for a law on the Slovenian Film Centre was suitable for further consideration. The Law-Legal Service has reviewed the law from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and commented on the 13 articles. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill and the oral opinion was presented by Anton Peršak at the meeting of the Committee. The Committee also received a letter from the Association of Slovenian Filmmakers on 26 May 2010. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by four coalition parties, namely the twenty-two articles and two amendments for the new articles. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled amendments to Article 7. The Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. A representative of the applicants, the Minister gave an introductory explanation for the bill. She said that the objectives of the proposed law were to ensure the smooth functioning of the agency, to increase funding for co-financing and the functioning of the agency, to improve the visibility of Slovenian works created by co-financing of the agency, to promote Slovenian language, to harmonize the law with existing sectoral legislation, to increase the visibility of Slovenian film and audiovisual works, to develop Slovenian cinema and to increase the promotion of Slovenian films at home and abroad. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that most of the comments made had been taken into account in the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups. She pointed out, however, that Article 17 regulates the extra-budgetary financing of Slovenian film production and that they had the most comments on. It noted, however, that, despite the amendment tabled in Article 17, important and difficult constitutional issues still arise. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 16 and 17 of the draft law. The debate focused on public calls for audiovisual projects and extra-budgetary financing of film production in the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Government explained, however, that, with the provision of Article 16 of the proposal, the call for audiovisual projects, which had been carried out so far at the cultural ministry, had been moved to the agency, which would contribute to greater autonomy, transparency and more efficient allocation of funds for audiovisual projects as well. The programme and financial separation of the audiovisual fund from the cultural ministry will also ensure greater pluralisation and stability in audiovisual activities. The Government also clarified its comments on Article 17. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the bill, amendments were adopted, namely the 23 amendments of the coalition groups. The Committee did not adopt the three amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and the four amendments of this Group have become irrelevant. The Committee adopted another amendment as its own. All the amendments adopted are included in the complementary proposal for a bill and we invite Members and Members to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill's proposal to present the views of the parliamentary groups at its 18th meeting, it is not possible. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 9. 2010 The amendments are tabled under Article 3. First, we are moving on to the debate on the amendments and on Article 4 of the bill. I'm giving you time to sign up for a debate. Here you go. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would like to submit my Group's opinion on the amendments to Article 15, which is amended, the amendment states that for each completed project whose value of co-financing exceeds EUR 100,000 and so on, this is due mainly to avoid the problems posed by the written solution so far. Based on our own knowledge, and especially on the proposals of the authors themselves, which they have already given us in a public presentation of opinions, that without our amendment some creators could face the unpleasant consequences, which I can base on the case of a film festival where, for example, the amount of the co-financed film fund amounted to approximately EUR 10,000 to EUR 25 000 and this would only contribute a small part to the overall budget of the film festival, in which such European funds, funds from local communities, sponsors, other institutions and ultimately exceed EUR 100,000 and, of course, the revision of such a case would mean that the funds would be used mainly for the audit process. There has been a number of such cases and countless cases, so the proposal to amend Article 15 is, as I mentioned at the outset, the value of co-financing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Mrs Andreja Richtar, the debate is on Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I will discuss Article 4, where we have proposed an amendment or amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to set EUR 2 million for that budget value, which we believe should be stated in our view, why, I will say. In the interests of clarity of the legal provisions, a specific amount should be fixed, since this is significantly easier than it has always been to recalculate or determine the average of the last five years. And, of course, start a fight with that. In addition, in other countries, the definition of a low-budget film is determined by a specific amount. A specific number of 2 million were also proposed by the Association of Slovenian Directors, the Association of Film Producers of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators who know the situation in this area best. As we heard from the Secretary of State, he said at the outset that all film makers and creators had come to consensus or had ended all disputes. I ask him if they have also achieved here that this is withdrawing from their proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Stoyan Pelko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, an answer immediately. At this point, we have aligned ourselves with all three companies, directors, producers and filmmakers, and we have convinced them with our argument. And this is the argument that by binding on the average, we allow gradual growth, which is also their ambition. While the link to a specific amount of 2 million would be impossible for the first time and the second time the reference to individual other European practices is linked to a significantly lower percentage of inputs than we do. There's a coordinated matter at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	I ask, does anyone else want a word and an amendment to this article to Article 4? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss again, I conclude the debate on Article 4 and move on to Article 15 and the amendment to Article 15 tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Andrea Richter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	I apologize for my previous indiscretion and, of course, I would have carried over the debate I had earlier if I could, through a magnetogram to this part and, of course, suggested that this is also the justification of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to Article 17 and the two amendments to Article 17. One amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the other by the Coalition Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see more reports. I'm opening time for an application. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman, once again. Slovenian film is shown cinematographically and not "especially" cinematographically. I also base our public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly on a number of reasons, which all our professional societies are finally behind. In particular, it is a useful literary word, and in marriage its opportunity is dangerous and even harmful. If we are talking about the use of the word "especially" in Article 17, paragraph 1 and 2, it allows broadcasters to use the call for funds not to co-finance cinematographic works, but television works for their own programme. Of course, I am sad or not, after all, a little disappointed that, after all, there is a lot of mistrust between the two communities. However, it is better to be very clear and concrete, because we have also received a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service that, of course, the equation or measurement of the word "especially" with what percentages are also very difficult, and therefore the control or amount of funds for the projects would be difficult to measure or correct. As a result, we believe that the word "especially" should be deleted or deleted from Article 17 and, finally, this also means the content of our amendment, which we have also proposed and which we are finally behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Our amendment to Article 17 highlights the role of the Viba Film Studio, which we believe is not sufficiently presented. Viba Film Studio is defined as a constitutional element of public support for cinematography, and is also the only infrastructure facility built by the country for the purposes of film. We propose that Viba Film Ljubljana is also the one who offers free technical services for the national film program and offers too much capacity for commercial activities, as well as Article 3 of the Decision establishing the public institute Viba Film Ljubljana Film Studio, which I will now read to see that this is true. It reads: "The Bureau of the Institute is a permanent and smooth implementation of the technical implementation of the Slovenian national film programme, which was selected and co-financed by the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia", which was a public fund at the time. "Technical realization includes performance, that is to say recording image and sound and processing of recorded material, full-length and short-played documentary and animated films, in various performance techniques. At the same time, it shall allocate the remaining technical and operational resources, spatial capacities and human resources to the needs of the market. The Institute promotes audiovisual culture through its activities in the Republic of Slovenia and abroad." In short, when a film centre is established, this role is visible from the film fund, according to the past institution that distributed this money has now fallen out. We think it's wrong, and we want Viba's film back on this. However, I have to say that we are also concerned that cooperation with RTV – which is similar – is why I can relate to this – is totally inconclusive, so to speak. By the way, the transfer of invitations from the Ministry of Culture to the Agency is difficult, extensive and I also ask the ministry at the end whether it has prepared a need for new staff and staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Two amendments have been tabled to Article 17. Let me begin by saying that I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The debate repeatedly explained why the Viba film is not mentioned in this place, and the explanations we received from the Ministry were at least clear to me, so I do not intend to support this supplement. However, with regard to the amendment of the four coalition parties, I would like to express my personal position to this amendment or to this amendment. The word "especially" in the first paragraph does not bother me, because the word "especially" in the laws is often used and could be found as appropriate, especially or in the largest part. The problem arises at the moment when certain sanctions need to be identified through inspection and, therefore, I think the release of the word "especially" is useful if we look at this aspect of better control of film production or of decision-making after the invitation to tender. However, I also advocated the word "especially" because I see this particular article and under this provision the intersection of different interests, on the one hand, is the interest of RTV Slovenia, on the other hand of filmmakers. We were placed in the role of a judge. It must be said that on the one hand we have come closer to the filmmakers, and I think that the representatives of the film profession should be significantly more pleased with the amendment's proposal because we have not accepted the arguments of RTV that the funds, which are also written in this paragraph, should not be financial assets. However, in order to compromise, it points out that the percentage intended for the call for a film production from the proposed 2.5% has dropped to 2%. So I'd say there was some kind of intermediate way between the two interests. All this, however, is a good promotion of film production in Slovenia. And I hope that if these things, as they are supposed to do in practice, are achieved consistently, one of the objectives of this law will also be achieved, as the quota of funds in this way, and now I am talking about financial resources, which is higher than it could have been. I will, as I say, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Stoyan Pelko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you, Chairman. I thank Ambassador Zorn for the question, because this allows me to explain to those Members and Members who have not been on the committee why such a dictatorship regarding Viba. Viba is included in the existing law in two points. Article 7 of the Council provides for coordination with a representative of the world and Article 11, paragraph 7, explicitly states that "services of technical infrastructure support which, under regulations governing the provision of public service in the field of culture, are provided by the State, the Agency may reasonably be included in the texts of calls for proposals". This means that we have listened here to two legislative and legal services, both government and state-level, that the law governing one entity, a public agency, cannot interfere with the procedures and roles of another independent legal entity. Of course, all the mission you quoted from the Act establishing the Viba Film Studio remains. That is why this law regulates the work of the Slovenian Film Centre, and the implementation of this programme remains a domain, as you said, of the only infrastructure facility for these purposes in Slovenia. Maybe just for an explanation. Just because the Slovenian Film Centre has some new tasks, at the point of transferring the Audiovisual Fund from the Ministry to the Slovenian Film Centre, we also listened to suggestions from the profession and anticipated a one-year delay so that the Slovenian Film Centre could really qualify for the new tasks it receives. However, where we can, we have already reached out to the draft 2011 budget and to the Slovenian Film Centre to carry out these tasks, which this law prescribes, additional resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	Anyone else want to discuss article 17 and the amendments? I'm giving you time to report. Please, who wants to talk about applying? Mr. Vito Rozej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. On the other hand, it is also possible to link the implementation of the entire film production, which is, after all, a free economic activity, to just one studio, to the fact that we do not have such options, but that the development of the film or technical procedures is not bound in any way to the Slovenian word, Slovenian cultural space and so on. In short, I think there would also be some problems with European Union legislation if Viba were to be given such a monopolistic function to the film. Performers or creators decide where to do things themselves, it is not a rare Slovenian film that doesn't even see the studio of Vibe film, but there is nothing worse about it, in fact there is no less Slovenian film. I can't support this amendment either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY — SECOND DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENIA RADIOTELVISION LAW I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Pelko, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia was drafted by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of proposals from the members of the Technical Commission to prepare amendments and supplement the law, proposals from the interested public and taking into account the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. To begin with, let me introduce the basic ambitions, the basic objectives of amendments to the law, which are: to ensure greater autonomy of public broadcasting, to optimise its substantive and business activities and to bring it into line with the EU acquis. What major changes are we introducing? The status form of RTV Slovenia is transformed from a public institution into a separate legal person of public law, a special, cultural and national importance. We are therefore maintaining the basic organisational structure, but we are changing it by content and competence in a way that will ensure the optimum functioning of the organisation in both substantive and business work. Such a sui generis regulation of the operation of RTV is fully regulated in the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. However, for possible unforeseen situations, it clearly sets out to apply the provisions applicable to public institutions. Such arrangements provide legal certainty and allow for a new way of corporate governance and increased responsibility of each individual member of the RTV Slovenia authorities. Of course, the Republic of Slovenia remains the sole founder and owner of RTV Slovenia. In addition to this essential advantage, which takes into account the specifics and needs of faster response, greater modernity and flexibility, different internal structure, functioning, organisation and mutual competences of the various authorities, the law makes it particularly possible to transfer assets to RTV and thus to manage them more easily and more responsibly, while at the same time very precisely, since only with the consent of the Government are any removals or longer-term burdens possible. And a second time. It introduces funding through strict adjustment of the amount of RTV contribution to the cost of living, which is, on the one hand, a condition for the development of television and, on the other hand, prevents the involvement or purchase of RTV by means of television. The second major innovation concerns the structure of the functions and responsibilities of the authorities, not only governance and governance, but also the supervision and representation of civil society in the main body, namely the Council of RTV. The proposal provides for the members of each body to specify the conditions of operation and experience required so far. For members of the Board and the Supervisory Board, for example, a certificate of competence for members of supervisory boards or boards of companies in force in the Republic of Slovenia. The personal responsibility of the members of the bodies shall also be determined. In order to increase this personal responsibility, a smaller membership is also envisaged in all the programming and supervisory bodies, which increases their effectiveness and prevents the possible representation of individual partisan interests mainly in the world. The status, bodies and third major structural novelty is the status of the staff and their gradual withdrawal from the system of public servants, where it is essential that the provisions of the current collective agreements on RTV Slovenia remain unchanged until the negotiation of new ones. Comparatively, systemically, journalists, as well as other partners of RTV Slovenia who have an impact on the creation of the programme, simply cannot be subject to the system in which the government sets the frameworks and baselines when it comes to public service. In such a system, there are levers through which the government can influence the income position of the programme’s co-workers and, consequently, also the programme and leadership. In past professional discussions, a consensus of the professional public has emerged that such an arrangement is simply not good, irrespective of the potential difficult to defend, the short-term interest of the currently dissatisfied. That is why so much attention was devoted to the finesse of this transitional period in the seven rounds of talks with trade unions. Employment contracts remain in force, jobs remain the same, the provisions of existing collective agreements and the Public Sector Wages Act still apply to them until they are negotiated with a different regime guide, which is not possible without their consent. The position of the staff is protected in this respect both at the time of the transition, where, according to the law's dictated, there can be no talk of interventions to rights than after the transition. In the end, let me just say that there have been some significant improvements in the treatment of the competent bodies of the National Assembly, including the article 2a, which regulates the general principles of public radio and television and the amendment of Article 3, where the so-called parliamentary programme is returned to the public service framework. With these other minor editorial improvements that we have coordinated in the process so far, we believe that the law is appropriate [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] at this reading. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. I give the president the floor to present. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth discussed the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia at its 19th meeting on 1 September this year, following a regular procedure. On 17 March 2010, the Committee held a public presentation of the opinions, and on 18 June 2010 a general debate was held at the 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly and it was decided that the proposal for a Radio Television Act was suitable for further consideration. Since we have prepared a written proposal, I will present all the articles in vain. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has commented on Article 34. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the proposal of the law, which was orally translated by Anton Peršak. However, the Council of State did not support the law in its opinion. In its report, the Commission advocated the representation of the two representatives of indigenous national communities in the RTV world and the right of the Programme Committees of the indigenous Hungarian and Italian national communities to agree to the appointment of leadership workers of national programmes. She also drafted her amendments to the bill. The Committee also had before it the opinion of the Pomurian Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community, the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality, the proposal of the amendment of the Union of Roma Slovenia, the proposal of the amendment of the Peace Institute, the amendments of the Commission for National Communities, the proposal of the Union of Journalists of Slovenia and the coordination of journalistic unions of RTV Slovenia, and the proposal to supplement and amend the Council of Workers of RTV Slovenia. The amendments were tabled – twenty amendments: four coalition groups, two amendments followed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy Club, the Commission for National Communities and three Members, Andrej Magajna, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Franz Žnidaršič. One article was tabled by the amendments of Andrej Magajna and Mag. Franc Žnidaršič and the Slovenian People's Party tabled amendments to the fifth articles. The proposals for amendments to the Committee were tabled by the SDS Group at its own meeting, namely Article 15 and the proposals for the three new Articles. The Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the proposal and on the amendments tabled. In the introduction, Minister Majda Širca gave an additional explanation to the bill, saying that the adoption of the law would increase the autonomy of the public service in relation to the centres of political and capital power in the area of information and the creation of programme content. There will also be greater efficiency in operations, which will focus on better quality of programmes, new technologies and services will be introduced more rapidly and content will be more accessible to individual target groups. She also said that marriage solutions that had not yet been in line with European Union law would be complemented. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to legal systemic concerns about the special status of RTV Slovenia. She also said that the amendments of the coalition took into account the part of their comments concerning nomotechnics and language issues and raised questions regarding the definition of the legal status of RTV, the status of staff, the definition of important new services, the procedures for elections and appointments, the solutions relating to the registration in the Registry and the definition of the entry into force of the law. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Articles 2, 3 and 27 and to their amendments. The discussion focused on the status and functioning of RTV Slovenia, the exit of RTV Slovenia staff from the public servants system, the third parliamentary programme and the membership of disabled representatives in the Programme Content and Services Committee. The amendments were adopted: the 19 amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy, Andrej Magajna and the other two Members, one amendment of the Commission for the National Community. The Committee has not adopted any other amendments. Some of these amendments have become irrelevant. The Committee also adopted its amendments. All adopted amendments are included in the updated proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and are available for decision by the National Assembly of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 18th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 September 2010. The amendments are tabled in Article 8. First, we turn to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? I'm opening time to report to the debate. Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We propose an amendment to Article 2, namely that RTV Slovenia is once again a public institution of special cultural and national importance and not what is in the new law, it is said that RTV is a separate legal person of public law of special cultural and national importance. The difference is essential, so to speak, fatal. Such forms of economic-public-industry and other forms of law do not exist in Slovenia, so this is the form of sui generis. And since we do not have such a form, from a legal point of view, there is a whole series of complications that will lead to a very difficult operation in this public institution, which is a company at the same time, or at the same time an economic society, if I say simply. Firstly, it is not true that workers can simply maintain the same conditions as now that they are public servants. At the same time, they may also require that they be treated as servants of economic law. The same thing's gonna happen to the unions. We have unions of public servants, we have trade unions and so on. In short, far from being coordinated, and far from being easily bridged in the future. The worst will happen, there will be a war between what is better, where is better pay, which conditions are better, what is signed in your contract, and it is clear that any contract in this public institution, which is also an economic company, will have to be rewritten. But it is not bureaucratic obstacles, it is simply so that we do not have such a form in Slovenian legislation and that a number of laws and regulations should be prepared or prepared in order to enable the operation of Radiotelevision Slovenia at all. And, if I read it a little bit more precisely, we are following the opinion of the Council of Workers of RTV Slovenia and taking into account the proposals of the Slovenian Press Union, the Coordination of Journalists' Trade Unions of RTV Slovenia, so that this agreement is simply not in the future. The shape of sui generis for RTV Slovenia is not appropriate in our view, as this status does not guarantee greater independence from political and capital influence. We warn about commercialisation, because an economic society has to make profits. And that's his first law. What's it gonna be like here with interests? Will it be a profit or, simply put, a culture? And the one who didn't make any profit? The specific form of a separate legal person of specific cultural and national importance derogates from all at the legal level of the envisaged means of providing public services by content for services and activities in the field of non-economic or economic public services. This is also related to the establishment, execution of the duties of founder, organisation and funding which deviate from the legal system, while introducing entirely new solutions into the legal order for legal persons. It sounds very nice, but you won't even be able to register. The existing status form of the public institution allows RTV Slovenia to operate transparently already, business has been positive for several years, so we do not see the need for such changes. Special attention is also drawn to Article 17, paragraph 2, which stipulates that employees of RTV Slovenia are not public servants. Such definition departs from the definition under Article 1 of the Civil Service Act, Official Journal No. 63/07, Officially purified text and so on. It defines a public official as an individual who is in a public sector working relationship, while other public entities are also part of the public sector in addition to the public authorities and administrations of the self-government local communities, public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions if they are indirect users of the state budget. And RTV, of course it is. The Constitutional Court also pointed out, when rejecting the constitutionality initiative of the Public Sector Wages Act, that RTV Slovenia, due to its activities and status, belongs to the public sector and is a public fund user in the public finances system. In short, I'm predicting huge confusion, court judgements, long trials, what's right and what's wrong, maybe constitutional judgment and so on. But that would be fine if this proposal really had some advantages, but not them. Nothing and no advantages, trouble itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I hope that the disastrous predictions of Ambassador Alexander Zorn will not come true. However, I do not argue that the status issues in the debate would not be one of those which was most frequently discussed both in the public presentation of opinions and in the general discussion in our Group. As I see this question myself, Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I don't intend to support this amendment. But there's a reason for that. Article 2, paragraph 1, states that RTV Slovenia is a separate legal person of special cultural and national interest. Some of the doubts and fears that have overwhelmed some may also now be resolved by the Committee's adoption of the fourth paragraph of this article, which states that "the only founder and owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia". This eliminates in particular what some have seen as opening up the possibility of privatisation. And in paragraph 5, it reads, "RTV Slovenia is registered in the Court Register as a separate legal person of public law of particular cultural and national importance". For all the issues not covered by the RTV Act, it referred to the Law on Public Institutions. The embarrassment of this law has never been hidden in the Group of Social Democrats, because we thought that if the Law on Public Institutions had been recast, then these embarrassments or those issues would have been more easily perceived or recognised or regulated. Where I do not see fears, especially if I come from the current law and the current regulation of things, as well as the current law, as I am accompanying RTV Slovenia, does not protect this institution from certain anomalies that the APEC or anyone else should detect and sanction. I am referring to the issue of advertising and other things, but I will not discuss the quality of the programme, even though it might be possible to talk about it. But at this very point, I intend to continue my debate. The Council of RTV Slovenia, as it is now set up with a smaller number of members and a tighter responsibility, will be the one who will actually decide whether the administration of this legal person has fulfilled all or not, because it will also be responsible for this. If the Administration fails to reach those instructions that the Council and the Supervisory Board will require regarding the programme and the use of funds, it will have to respond in person and be able to resolve. In addition, there are also embedded elements of clear delineation between public service funds and RTV contributions and those that will be collected from market activities. However, there is no point in hindering the possibility of RTV Slovenia doing any of the activities in the service market. Well, most of the time we talked about what the RTV Slovenia orchestra does and other activities. But here again it protected that these revenues from market activities could not be distributed and rewarded by managers and all employees, of course, if they were not first settled public service obligations. I have mentioned some of these safeguards, he has protected even more, and I hope that Article 2 will, as is now written down, go beyond what fellow Member Zorn has been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	Nice greeting to all in attendance! I myself have been an applicant for amendments to Article 2. This is an extremely important status issue, as well as other issues raised by this Article 2. Unfortunately, since most of these amendments have been rejected on the Committee, I cannot put them on the table today as a Member, so I will support the SDS Group's amendment. In fact, in this case it is an extremely important, conceptual, sample case, which would also be fatal for the status of other public institutions in the event of their entry into force. The so-called modernisation of the public service is going in the direction of hybrid models, where public and market activities cross, that is a profitable or commercial activity. Instead of the umbrella Law on Public Institutions, the second time through the side door, called Modernisation, attempts to introduce commercialisation and, as a result, their privatisation. The blood marriage was supposed to come later, but it would represent a synthesis of so-called good practices that would have been legalized by then. First, the disputed commercialisation and privatisation of public institutions tried to introduce the Health Act through Miklavčič and now through the RTV Act. The long-term project of the so-called modernisation of public institutions, which today will take place in this area, will be stymied tomorrow in the fields of education, science, education, culture. I am therefore convinced that RTV Slovenia must remain a public institution with enhanced supervision of the founder and professionally independent without having a political impact on the content of the programmes and with a greater impact on users. The proposed state-of-the-art transformation into a financial, independent, commercial company, which citizens would be obliged to finance, and the company authorities could increase their income by market activity, should not be allowed. I do not accept arrangements that transform public activity into a commercial business company sui generis. I am critical of the model of financial autonomy of administrations, which we distance from the influence of the founder, especially from the influence of users, viewers, the public. With autonomy, the administration of the institution and the supervisory councils, which will supervise and allocate these percentages of shares, will further increase the possibility of free autonomous landing, the availability of social resources, and will also make business untransparent, despite all the declarant guards. So, businesses that we know everywhere where public and market activity is involved. Acquisitions will flow into private pockets in the form of prizes, despite restrictions, but we were also able to calculate how this will take place. It will be implemented by public means, at public facilities, by means of public equipment, by public means, these are subscriptions. The prizes are contentious to performers who have already been paid for their work. However, I do not object to the fact that certain services and products, here too, are at the core of a misunderstanding, I do not object to the fact that certain products are payable and the financial situation of the institution improves through the means obtained. Therefore, I do not oppose stimulation for good work in all segments of public activity, but I do object to the fact that the payment of prizes resulting from the level of profits of market activities is channelled into private pockets. The derogation from the public service status in the new so-called special provision of sui generis also raises questions about the status of employees. I join the position of the Public Administration Union to restore this status to this form as it was. Now I also understand what the drafters thought in the chapters on autonomy before the elections with this autonomy and modernisation. Something other than financial autonomy is professional autonomy, which I will forever support in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr Stojan Pelko, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you. The most accurate answer to Member Magajni is in my opinion the fourth paragraph of Article 2: "The only founder and owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. It is the duty of the founder to ensure the professional and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia, adequate funding and appropriate arrangements, which are the basis for obtaining funds for the public service, while respecting the financial stability of RTV Slovenia's funding sources." I owe Ambassador Zorn a slightly more detailed answer. Just because RTV Slovenia is such a specific organisation, it also requires specific legal arrangements. Even the new Law on Non-economic Public Services, which is just in preparation, does not have all the appropriate solutions, for example, there is no solution to the independent position of the world, to the handling of property, to the responsibility of members of the administration, which is more cooperative. Therefore, as a result of the long professional debate, the only real solution was such a lex specialis. Violent coverage of different forms of public service operations would simply conceal the actual situation and lead to impreciseness. Therefore, we argue that the public institution is not a suitable legal form for the future development of RTV Slovenia because, due to the scope and different obligations both within the public service and when entering the market, there are situations that simply make it impossible for management to act quickly and make it difficult for the founder to control. A special status form means a more transparent operation where all key financial transactions in the law are specified. Activities with financial implications are regulated, all forms are standardised. In particular, the responsibility of management and control structures is highlighted. That is why this law has two basic pillars for us. On the one hand, at the level of the contribution, it brings greater autonomy and, on the other hand, it brings greater responsibility to the administration precisely for what was mentioned in both Members' mouths, i.e. for the public service, for the cultural, educational and similar content which must be the main part of the programme, and for which the Administration is responsible by its mandate. Moreover, there is no danger of legal void or impossibility of entering the register of the court, as mentioned in the amendment proposal, since the entry is ensured both by this law and by the Law on the Court Register. And perhaps only because the question of leaving the system of public servants was mentioned again; most of the doctrine of Article 57 was well documented on the proposal of the trade union negotiating group. That fundamental conceptual purpose, however, that, in the long term, the withdrawal from the public servants system could not simply be swallowed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Does he want to go to the 2nd? I'm opening time to report to the debate. The text is by Mr László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I will not support the amendment proposed under Article 2, but for principle and not for substantive reasons. All that has been said, regarding the uncertainties of the status, has been made public many times over the past months and weeks, and so on, we have nothing to add. Although I accept the State Secretary's interpretation that autonomy on the one hand is what has been achieved, and on the other hand the responsibility of the administration, it is also an answer to possible uncertainties and open questions. However, I am here in doubt, and I believe that as far as autonomy is concerned, of course I accept, as far as the responsibilities of the administration are concerned, I am not sure that such issues will be able to arise here as conflict situations and problems. So, in short, as far as this first paragraph is concerned, I would be much more pleased if this institution were still a public institution in the classical sense of the word, but that is not the case. But the principle problem, my one, is mainly related to the fifth paragraph of the same article, namely, this content has already been mentioned in particular by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, namely the introduction of a new category of the national and ethnic community. I do not want to be misinterpreted, so in no sense as a member of any other national community, and as a member of another national community, I do not have any reservations, nor do I have any difficulties against anyone, at least against any other national community, but I believe that when a new category is introduced, when we list in the text those members of nationality that belong to groups from the former Yugoslav republics, we bring a precedent which will probably also be attended by debates and treats in other areas, including in the field of other laws. So from this point of view, I believe that this law may not be the best place where this term should be used for the first time. But anyway, as I have said, for principle reasons, I will not vote against such solutions without any misinterpretation. Therefore, I believe that this dilemma may also need to be interpreted more seriously elsewhere, but I will not go now. In short, I mention this Article only if I have already mentioned this point as a comment, including the position of the current RTV management, which has raised certain doubts and questions to this proposal or to this solution. Undoubtedly, this introduces a precedent, but, as I have already pointed out, precisely because of what I have stressed to the Committee on Culture that no other national community should challenge any third or fourth national community rights, I will not be able to support this amendment. Otherwise, I believe that there may have been some reserves here, particularly under Article 1, which have not been used sufficiently in the debate and in the search for a solution. Otherwise, I have to say that this content is largely corrected in relation to the original text and has produced many very good results, but for these two contents I remain in a dilemma. But as I said before, I will vote as I vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! I will say so, and I do not support this amendment that has been tabled, and I am agreeing to this lex specialis solution that is written in the bill. Why? Because I think that the fate of the public interest, which has also taken place in these social changes and transformations at this point because we are discussing in the RTV house, including this institution. For I personally believe that self-written public interest as a status means nothing and does not mean in the substantive and working manner of any major changes or that public interest is ensured. Therefore, under the tone of this lex specialis, when we continue reading this extract, of course, it is sufficiently supported and reasoned that this public interest in such a house can also be exercised. The only owner and founder is the Republic of Slovenia. Next, if the issue is private and public, funds from certain things must also be used for public services. And last but not least, most importantly, if the majority share of cultural, informative – and there are other activities – is not sufficiently guaranteed in the content, then, of course, the world of the institution begins the procedure for the discharge of the administration of the institution itself because it does not exercise this public interest that we are talking about today. Or, in my own words, public interest is also used in this debate for this kind of added value to the private interests that each institution operates in every part of it. They're also kind of limited and focused through this lex specialis, so I think it's kind of the right direction. It is a public-private partnership where, of course, there are no capital shares, but it is defined in a substantive sense. I think the solution is really innovative at this point in time for this situation with us, but I think it is a good solution at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I need to draw attention to a few more aspects. Indeed, it is no longer a matter of public interest, but it is also an economic matter in this reform of the law and in this new society. Because it is a sui generis or something that is inexistent in our legal system, I fear that this hybrid would be able to do anything at first until we change legislation, and many laws. Let me tell you something else. I didn't want to open it, but we forgot about it, and it's coming back. It's a subscription. At the time the first form of the law was presented, the change was that the public institution had transformed into a share society. It became clear that a share company could not just collect a subscription to any electricity user. That was impossible. That was clear to everyone. That's why we said we'd ask for the highest judgment. But now it's similar. Indeed, it is also an economic society. And why could any company pick up a subscription from us from anyone who has electricity? Please. What if we start a dispute in this regard? What if we ask the Constitutional Court, for example, is that possible? Why, for example, if I take this personally, would a semi-economic company want to charge me every time I have electricity, when I can say, "Increase the profits, live alone, because that's why you're an economic society." It's reopening, you forgot about it. And by replacing the equity company for some kind of hybrid, you didn't erase it. This will come again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It's never the perfect solution. I also responded before the first proposal to transform RTV into an economic society. This seemed like such a turnaround, where actually the public interest would be in the background. On the other hand, we all realized that the status that we have after the current legislation does not correspond to the actual situation. The fact is that if we make the situation very simple and we can simply describe the situation in RTV, for several decades commercial activities have been carried out in black because the public institution should not in fact allow what the status sui generis offers, let's call it a compromise proposal, to sort it out, but the previous status also offers commercial content in a very controversial way. That's all this is about. I understood the Government's proposal as a proposal for first recognition of certain facts, secondly the regulation of these facts, i.e. the more transparent organisation of the internal RTV system, where it will be clear, to whom or to what it belongs, and it will always exist, and it will be useful, it will benefit the institution, it will also benefit workers, it will ultimately benefit the quality, because they will no longer intertwine as they do now, a commercial activity and an activity that we can describe as an activity of public interest – what the public institution should offer. And it is precisely because of this need for an accurate delimitation of these two spheres within the same framework that I think this proposal is good. It is not ideal, because, as we see, it reopens debates, suspicions that privatisation is being prepared; and I see no privatisation options here. I think that the owner and founder of this institution is a separate legal person, exclusively the State of the Republic of Slovenia. If I had suspected and seen here the possibility of decommissioning this system in terms of its privatisation, of course I would not have supported it. But it doesn't look like it. It does not appear, while there is a clear purpose to organise something that is already working and already exists. I've been working with RTV myself for several years. I know a certain problem. The TV of Cyprus was created and has provided the Ljubljana TV for years and years with fruits of outstanding commercial activity. And if they were consistent, they'd say it was all black-handed, but it wasn't. Without this, of course, even RTV Slovenia would not be what it is today. Now it is only a matter of making things meaningful, even legally, and that is why this amendment, despite the good intentions that sound very nice, if we are here defending a public institution, public interest – we usually agree with our colleague Magajno in almost everything, perhaps because it comes from some concrete experience, but not. This is not how I will support this amendment, but I will support the government's solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	In fact, I wanted to report to the replica, but it'll still be part of the debate. With regard to the fuse, which was also mentioned today, it has determined that it is the only owner of the country. This amendment has also been tabled by three Members with colleague Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mr France Žnidaršič, and thank God this amendment has been adopted, which is very important. However, in detailed reading and interpretation, I am still convinced that there will be a certain degree of commercialisation and also privatisation, in part, in a limited way, but also in the long term to privatise RTV and consequently other public institutions. Actually, I wanted to talk to you about the status of public servants. I find very important the opinion of the President of the Public Sector Trade Unions Group, Mr Janez Posei, who said that who and who is not a civil servant cannot be the subject of this law. In fact, we should settle this with some kind of roof law. This status cannot be determined by some kind of sectoral law. And then this district law would then lead to all the other institutions. We should first have a roof law where these status dilemmas around who may be a public servant and who may not be resolved there. This is very important. And we kind of just went around the press. Most journalists are against it. Most journalists advocate that RTV Slovenia continue to maintain the status of the public office and that employees maintain the status of public servants. This also shows the results of a survey carried out between the journalists of the Institute between June 8th and 10th by the coordination of press unions. This brings together 8 representative unions. The survey showed that the transformation of RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance, as set out in the proposal, supports 22.9% and opposes 77.71% of the journalists questioned. The proposal that employees in the office would no longer be public servants was supported by 33.12% of respondents and 66.88% against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Pelko, did you wish to take the floor? If you want, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	I would just like to explain any misunderstandings as the economic society has been mentioned several times. It's not about economic society. It is a legal person of public law and because economic societies are legal persons of private law. Therefore, in cases not regulated by this law, the legislation applicable to institutions does not apply to companies. The part of the company law that we used as an advantage for our law is the personal property responsibility of members of the authorities of RTV Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It is far from the truth that such a sui generis is a form of rarity and speciality and that we do not know such in Slovenia, as was heard at the beginning of the debate. We have a bunch of institutions that are actually very creatively involved in all the functions that the state must have, such as sui generis. Such is, for example, the Student Organisation of Slovenia, Fiho, the Organization for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and, if we are purely honest, such a sui generis form is also a mutual insurance company because it is the only mutual insurance company. Although the law doesn't say it's a mutual marriage, it's the only one, so it's a de facto one. And what does experience teach us? That right where these sui generis forms are too small, there's room for speculation. At least with the desire to own the Mutual, I have seen such initiatives, and it has to be made clear that Mutual as a sui generis form, there is no economic society, but it is more similar to society, but society cannot be privatised. The same was also said here by the Secretary of State that it is a sui generis form that uses some of the solutions they know in companies, but that it is even more similar to the institution, so all these concerns are superfluous. It has also been said that this institution has already had some activities that it should not actually be doing, and we have all shrunk at one or both eyes. And to introduce some of the principles that apply in companies, this is more or less good. If we oppose this – and those who want to change the form back to the institution and at the same time think that you have to respect all the legal restrictions that exist, you also have to make it clear that, dear citizens and citizens, consumers and customers of electricity, will pay twice as much as you would if you wanted to have the same program. Without re-inflicting people and saying, a cheaper and better programme will be if you vote in favour of our proposals. Of course it's not true! In this change and in pointing out what kind of marriageal chalice such a sui generis form may take, of course, there would not be more than one basic legal knowledge that there are special laws, so lex specialis, as my colleague Kumer has already said, those who will regulate this area, although the law on public servants, as my colleague Zorn said, among those who are public servants, will also include, for example, staff on Radiotelevision, but because we are doing lex specialis for this area, these problems will not soon be. If mutual, Fiho, Student organization and anyone else were able to sign in, then probably RTV Slovenia will also be in this new form. As for the very status of employees on TV, it is interesting – at least for me, and I must say that as a former editor in charge of Radio student – and surprisingly that the opinion of independent journalists can change in a year, two, three so quickly as to determine whether they want to be public servants or do not want to be public servants. However, I am afraid that it will also have to do with the change in the salary system which has raised the salaries of these public servants on Radiotelevision during this interim period. Of course, I would like the salary to not be the only criterion in how an independent journalist decides whether he wants to be a public official, that is, a government official, or whether he wants to be independent in his work. And here I see this autonomy. For the same reason, the third parliamentary programme has also returned under the auspices of Radiotelevision Slovenia with the same basic democratic thought that journalists must, if they want to report on our work independently, do so not in the way that they are actually the employees of the National Assembly or, if you want, the employees of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, would in fact be. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who determines the basic wage ratios of public servants, confirms them in Parliament, and also TV journalists are among them, and would receive the same fates as all civil servants. How, then, will they be able to report our work objectively so that people can decide which one of us is right and who is wrong! Because of this press mission, Radiotelevision Slovenia is so different, and I will say in my quotations, a public institution from other public institutions. That's why his work is so important that he deserves lex specialis. That's why the legal form is sui generis. No matter what performances will take place in Ljubljana’s Drama or in the theatre of Maribor, the political climate will be small or no different in the country. However, the political climate will be very different, depending on whether national television will report certain events, politics in one way or another. Therefore, RTV Slovenia is a different public institution from other public institutions. It must therefore take such a status form, which, after all, is not so rare, nor is it European comparatively. That is why I will not support this proposed return to the past, nor would I support any other return to the past, which is proposed in the National Assembly mainly by those who declare always that they do not wish to return to the past because they are themselves those who have drawn this country out of the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the first debate, I explained the arguments for rejecting the SDS Group's amendment on status issues. In all of this, one more thing to say is that, indeed, from the draft bill to the bill and the law now adopted, a large number of provisions have changed significantly. However, I would like to see at least those employees in the public institution of RTV operating under the current law, but we understand that we are not talking about such status issues as Radiotelevision Slovenia would have any connection with an economic society. In one of the information shows dedicated to reporting from the Committee's meetings, from our meeting, the talk was that we would deal with these issues as if RTV were working as an economic society. That's not true! Now, what further led me to the floor, however, is related to the proposal of the same Group of Members for the added third paragraph; in the amended bill this is the second paragraph in which, with the amendment adopted by the LDS Group and our Group of Members, we have introduced the nominate of representatives of the peoples of the former Yugoslav State, those who were the constituent peoples of these countries, in alphabetical order. We have been able to convince the committee to a good extent — I hope — why such a provision and such a guidance is necessary from our point of view. Because of the fact that it is a constitutionally guaranteed individual right, which is already being exercised in the Republic of Slovenia at the level of cultural rights and educational rights, it is not possible to overlook that members of these communities also have other expectations, which also go beyond individual rights in the direction of collective rights. We are reminded of this issue by the Ombudsman's reports, we are reminded by the reports of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which say that there are no professional arguments to distinguish between indigenous and non-automatic national communities. In the amended proposal for a law, we believe that this weakness that our legislation has shown so far is overturned that this is the first law in which these rights are exercised in a transparent manner, and I cannot support the deletion proposal in any way. The fact is that according to the census about 11% of the population of Slovenia is non-Slovenian or Slovenian is not the mother tongue. I will not now refer to the letter of intent for long and wide, but these are all the arguments that make me think that we must take care of such a solution, which, last but not least, reminds us of it constantly, as has been said, also the report of the Ombudsman. And I am not afraid that there may be another law in which we may also find the nominal guidance of the members of these national communities that we are talking about. Therefore, I cannot accept such a change, nor do I see why the last three paragraphs of Article 2 should be deleted in the amended proposal of the law. If I further understand that there is a problem with public officials, I will say this: when we put journalists in the public service system, the resistance was violent. When we discussed these issues, including among the employees of RTV Slovenia, we did not reach a single verdict. And I think they're making a big mistake who think they're all in the same line of questioning. The positions are scattered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. We are discussing Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendment, which we have proposed to Article 2. To say that we are introducing some new special form for a special organisation is quite as special and specific organisations in this country we have a lot and probably will not start inventing a variant tomorrow, so that for each one something fits as we would think. [[...]] And despite the fact that it has been exposed, that we have talked about this in public debate and that we have continued to talk about it, it can only be an excuse, but it does not mean that the problem is solved and that it is not a problem. For me it is a professional legal profession and lawyers have said this negatively, not only in the Law and Law Service, but also more widely – we could read these things in the media. So to me, despite the fact that the matter was being discussed in a public debate and everyone there could say that it was then also dealt with on committees – that now everything is covered and everything is O.K. and that we can say that everything is professional and great because it is not. Despite the warnings of many, and despite the change in the law in some things, some provisions do not make this key, and I think we will make more problems than we will benefit from this way. We have also proposed in the amendment an amendment to the third paragraph, something about which has already been said, that particular attention should be paid to the national communities of the former Yugoslav State. I understand that these people live here, and so are many other things – I work alone in the cultural field, we promote their culture, they engage, they have organised societies, they participate in meetings and so on, but I don't know if it's appropriate for us to write down in the law that we will pay special attention to this. For it will surely follow from this how we who wrote it into the law imagine it, as they imagine. And we certainly don't think the same thing. The Committee noted that this means the organisation of the Serbian programme or programme for Serbs living in Slovenia, programmes for Croats living in Slovenia and so on. And to say that these people have expectations – of course they do, because I have them and a lot of them, and that doesn't mean that everything I expect and want will happen to me. We should probably be a little careful here because things are not only about money, but also about what the representative of the Hungarian minority said. I think we should think about these things and not just write something into the law, but then we'll deal with the consequences. Steps back are usually very difficult or virtually absent. In view of the fact that the proposaler himself has not already incorporated this into the law and this has been adopted by amendments to the committee, I am even more convinced that the matter is not designed and considered as it should be. I therefore believe that our amendment to Article 2 should be supported, including the third paragraph. Of course, I will support this, and the ministry, I hope, because you insist that we create some specifics that "will not touch nor mouse" so that you will also deal with the consequences of such irregular legislation. Because then we always hear that we Members have adopted bad legislation and that we should save now. Bad legislation is to blame when it turns out that some things were not well thought out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Good-bye to all of you. Today we are talking about many very important things, about employees, about people, about human destiny, and about constitutional categories. For it is a national radio programme that fulfils two important missions. One is that this is, as we always used to say, the house of Slovenian culture, and the other is that it fulfils the mission of information. The principle of the right to information stems from the Constitution itself, there is no doubt about it, but also from many acts of the European Union. However, this principle is constitutionally fulfilled only if actual opinion pluralism is ensured and every citizen, every citizen of Slovenia is informed of any relevant matter related to any part of our social life, by different values. And I stress – easily attainable. To say that the Internet is today a free media where we can read everything is too small. It is also about the availability of information, i.e. the mission of public broadcasting. And this mission is threatened in both its key works by what the ruling coalition is now advocating. So far, public broadcasting has acted as a public service, because public institutions have been set up by their own definition, by their own function and organisation, by meeting all those requirements that we actually put before public television when it comes to the organisational and business aspects of this issue. Now something is set up here that is not a public institution, which is not even a normal economic society, but it is taken away from everyone something like that moment to someone who wrote this law – and therefore, by the way, he has pulled a few ten thousand euros – seemed wise. But this will not work in practice, for more than one marriage is sufficient. It should be known that any provision on whether something is either a public institution or a normal business company, for example, a share company, in any case, raises a whole range of other questions; questions related to the sets of other legislation that then regulates the business, control and so on. In this case, this will be free hunting and I fear, free hunting, linked to many personal interests – I suspect those who have written or advocated this law, either at ministerial or parliamentary level. For the employees, who know that it is also and especially their own destiny, are completely united, and advocate that this should remain a public office. Such was the requirement, ladies and gentlemen, of all representative RTV Slovenia trade unions, including press unions, with the coordination of press unions and all other relevant labour unions. By the way, on RTV Slovenia, this is often forgotten, we are not journalists. No, no, no, no, no! That the program can run on the air, worries more than a thousand people, while journalists are relatively small if we compare it with each other. Of course, we need both, so that public broadcasting can fully fulfil its mission. Once again, all relevant trade unions, including according to a survey of about 70% of journalists to whom the Minister has been manipulatively addressing, are today advocating a solution to keep RTV Slovenia a public institution. Because they are aware that there will be too many open questions otherwise. No one in this debate could clearly say how this organization, which is proposed here, will work in practice. It will not be a public institution, it will not be an economic society – so what will it be? Red submarine? No one can tell what it is in practice. No one can tell which part of which legislation will apply at the time when an appropriate decision will have to be taken. This will in practice work without a number of business problems and then have free hands for those who will at any given moment take what is liked by someone at a given time. And no public institution, public undertaking, public institution and at least public broadcasting should operate in this way. Things should have been settled a long time ago, first on a government level, because it is a shame that the government has proposed such a law, an inappropriate, substandard law, and only then could we move on. For there is something else to be said: this law, even with this article, also brings new costs. It's not just these editorials, as they are now on purpose, because it might be pre-electionly productive for someone, it shows. For these editorials listed here, for listing, the obvious south nostalgic, former Yugoslav nations and nationalities. Far from being listed here! The problem is that this will open Pandora's box because of the principle of equality before the law. So far, the law has placed the Italian and Hungarian national communities in a special position because it is a direct constitutional basis for this. In the current law, in the previous term, when we adopted it, we found an appropriate solution for the Roma community, which is also mentioned in the Slovenian Constitution, with a certain difference, and we took this into account in some way within the framework of the law. Now others are also given into marriage, some are explicitly listed, and some are released. What's going to happen in practice? We were really part of the former Yugoslav community once, and we got out of it with a victory in the war for Slovenia. Before that, this is forgotten, but we were also members of another community, say, Austro-Hungarian. But what is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, is today an integral part of the European Union. Already because of the nature of the European Union, due to the free movement of people as one of its key principles, we have an increase in the number of members of these nations, especially the great European nations. And what's gonna happen? When they come and say, "Listen, we want the same position that you, you and you have now." You're not gonna believe this! The European Union acts explicitly prohibit anyone individually or collectively as a nation from placing them in a less privileged or deprived position against someone outside the Community or within the Community. That is said, but the Priories will be entitled to the same position. And this law will draw in practice the creation of new regulation, and any subsequent one that initiates appropriate procedures will also have the right to a new regulation. With this you generate a number of new costs without making it clear in advance what all these strong editors are supposed to produce. For, in fact, I am firmly convinced that in terms of those who pay RTV contributions, it is totally no matter whose nation or nationality someone is. We all have the right to be informed about everyone in the same way, and if the Austrians, Croatia, Serbia, Hungary, Italy – we must all have the same valet. This is not only something that is already enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, which – once again – speaks about the principle of equality before the law, but also comes from the principles of journalistic ethics, because it is a question of equal, on the basis of the relevant measurable professional criteria of measurable reporting and information about everything else, but also, if you want, of playing the various entertainment content of different nations. Again on an equal footing, where, of course, there must be a key criterion for the quality of what national television shows. Does such a solution as you advocate, which brings new costs, guarantee it? Certainly not, for some put themselves in a different position than others without any constitutional basis. All of us, once again, and in particular all within the European Union, because not only the Slovenian Constitution commands us to do so, but also the act of the European Union should be in the same position. When the next one comes to put out an account, I will personally be in favour of his request for support. Or, ladies and gentlemen, stop the horses while it's time. Stop this project, which is in advance sentenced to a relatively short life. The first, and whoever has a government, you will certainly no longer have it in view of the economic failure of the current government, will re-enact this law in good faith, because it will in practice cause a number of problems in business, new costs and will not work, so that it will fully fulfil those two missions of public broadcasting, which I have been talking about: cultural and information missions. Of course, you can only do this one way to accept an amendment that follows the requirement of coordination of RTV Slovenia press unions, the coordination of unions of all employees of RTV Slovenia, the RTV Slovenia Workers' Council, namely those for which it is really concerned. We propose that the provision should be amended so that RTV is maintained as a public institution, so that the rules of the game will be fully known in advance, definitive and business will not take place with a number of strangers and with this corresponding problem, as with the variant that you are defending at this point. The second is that it follows, however, the principle of respect for the Slovenian Constitution and the principles of equality before the law of the European Union, and that we therefore list only those for whom the actual basis is in the Slovenian Constitution and therefore put them in a special position at the constitutional level. All others, however, are treated as dictated by the European Union and the Slovenian Constitution, with the same vat, with the principle of equality before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the debate, I would like to limit myself to Article 2, as I have the feeling that we are not all aware of the importance and gravity of the content of this article or its doctrine. I fully agree with the proposed amendments to this Article. The Sui generis form for RTV Slovenia is not appropriate, in fact it is not appropriate, as this status does not guarantee greater independence from policy and capital influence. This is explained very clearly. Let me continue to explain. At the public hearing in this Chamber we have heard many comments, professional and lay, civil society, and when we have received the proposal of this law, we have seen in fact that the fighting has been taken little account of. Let me mention some thoughts and views that were expressed by the professional public at the time, from the leaders on RTV Slovenia. You may also remember: the legislator, the Ministry of Culture, at the time, as the actual RTV director of RTV Slovenia, stressed in all his statements and performances, and also stressed that in the amendments to the existing law on the public administration of RTV, there is a fundamental, fundamental objective, that is, greater independence of the public institution, greater autonomy of the journalistic work and so on. Yeah, from who? From politics, in any case, ruling! Well, those who have a parliamentary majority; this one has a second one. The first amendments and additions to the existing law have in fact completely devalued this political verbalism. In order to attempt the full submission of RTV Slovenia to the ruling politicians – behind which the so-called expert group at the Ministry of Culture was set up and, as it was found, the members of this expert group finally found that they had been used in some way, if not abused, because they had no impact at all on the final version of this proposal. The draft law itself on RTV status, and this is the essence of this article, is changing the current public institution, but this status is not sufficiently explained that it would not be possible to talk about some status-organisation form, a structure that we find difficult to compare in the existing system. Or rather, it is an experiment whose test rabbits will not only be employed in RTV Slovenia, but, as a result, all those to whom this law is supposed to be intended, is the public in the broadest sense of the word. By replacing or changing the status of the institution with a separate legal person of public law, as stated in the draft, in fact, part of the current public sector is abolished, although in some important elements this public sector also retains. And even the elements of a share company, an economic society! In some cases, however, in some cases only for a period of some transitional period, as has been said several times, if you remember. What will happen after this transitional period is unknown. And this brings unrest between radio and television broadcasters, between employees and also the question of whether and what is necessary and what is the purpose. In the future, this would require a genuine recovery or even a start to a good social dialogue with representative unions. It is said that re-opening the internal opening of very difficult and also very conflict-oriented issues, which have been dealt with in recent dialogues sometimes but also quite successfully. In doing so, I would also draw attention to some of the other dilemmas that the predecessors have already said, and that is, if the draft law grants RTV Slovenia special status sui generis, then we can rightly wonder how this will work in practice. That's exactly what the predecessor said! This calls for possible conflicts that will arise, and of course the amendment of the law in the future, and you will see it in two years. The President of the Court of Auditors himself warned, it seems to me that he has serious concerns about this on one television broadcast shortly after spring. And if he said he had serious concerns, then you can already predict how serious the concerns are. RTV Slovenia now operates as a public service service in the cultural and media fields. Its founder is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. RTV Slovenia, on the other hand, is the manager of certain state assets. As RTV Slovenia will continue to carry out public service and activities in the public interest, the provision of Article 67(2) of the Public Finance Act should also be examined. Has the proposalr thought about this? This provides that the State may organise assets in the form of public institutions, public economic institutions, public undertakings, public funds and agencies for such activities. Under the Law on Economic Public Services, public companies are organised according to the legislation governing companies, and from this point of view it is also considered that the lawmaker should decide on one of the legally possible and listed status forms and provide RTV to Slovenia with an appropriate legal organisational form. And I won't be too long. From all that has been said so far, we are also convinced in the Slovenian National Party that the existing status form of the public institution allows RTV Slovenia to actually work transparently, and not least, those who are slightly better acquainted with the reports of the supervisory board, including the operation of RTV Slovenia, have been positive for several years. Therefore, in fact, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, I do not see any reason for amending this law in the sense that it has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say that this is about the most serious things, because TV Slovenia is the largest cultural institution in the country with 2 000 employees and it will remain so, despite reducing it in half, it will still be the largest cultural institution. It is said that we are talking about something that is extremely important for the whole country and the immoderate movement, that circumcision of a foreign opinion is not taken into account here, as Mr Rožej has expressed it, given that this opinion is simply to be backward or we have the same sui generis, and these are sports societies and such things. Sports companies and the Mutual do not collect subscriptions from anyone who has electricity. This is an exceptional institution, which, of course, is a state institution, and this is therefore a serious matter, because we are trying to prevent a formal collapse in law reform from taking place here. If this company can even work! Of course, it wasn't me who invented it and I didn't invent either a sui generis or anything about it, but it was pointed out very precisely by the Law-Legal Service. I need to read some of their sentences because they're extremely important. At the same time, I should like to say that the State Secretary from the Ministry of Culture has said that this will be a transitional period. We call this transitional period a transition, and we know what is going on in transition. It will be a conflict of interest between economic and public, a serious conflict in the field of regulation, in the field of workers, in the field of trade unions, in the area of identifying who is the economic part of this public institution, who is the cultural part, who is the editorial part, who is the substantive part. There will be a conflict of interest at all of the huge institutions. But look what the Legal and Legal Service wrote down, and other lawyers share that opinion. He says: "The proposal for a law in the first paragraph of Article defines RTV Slovenia as a separate legal person of public law of particular cultural and national importance. In doing so, the legislative and legal service raises the question of the legal system compliance of the proposed solution, which should introduce a specific but status-altering form to provide the content, programmes and services of the public service subject to public service provision, which deviates from all legal systems of the envisaged means of providing public services, either on the content of services and activities in the field of non-economic or economic public services. This is also related to the questions of creation" – we pointed out – "implementation of the tasks of the founder, organisation and financing" – please - "which depart from the legal system, while introducing entirely new solutions into the legal order for legal persons in the field of public law. The very way of definition, which, unlike other means of naming other legal entities, does not rely on any of the established status forms, but on the status form, is marked by the emphasis on the cultural and national importance of RTV Slovenia as a separate legal person of public law, substantially deviates from the existing definitions and shows it to be reconsidered as it is inappropriate in our opinion." And further, "as we have already pointed out, the provision that this is a legal person of public law is not, in our view, sufficient to define clearly the status of a legal person". So it's clear! She's not going to have a legal judgment like that either. While such an explicit provision is useful for its identification, it is not necessary in itself, since the property of a legal person of public law is primarily a matter of interpretation and assessment, to what extent the elements of the legal regime of public law are highlighted in an individual case. But here it goes, among these are the first ways of establishing by public law, the public nature of functions or functioning, the means and method of financing, and the application of public law in internal and external relations. The means and the method of funding, you heard, it's a subscription and everything. It is that economic profit and at the same time what the state or government gives, as we call it, to this huge cultural public institution that wants to be a small economic society, but little and as far as the solution is concerned, whether this one is pure and is already organised and provided economic services. [[...]] Of course, even a number of services could be removed from it and called an economic branch, but fully experimenting with this huge public institution, the largest cultural one we have, is risky. And I'm predicting bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Rozej made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I understand that we can think differently, but I wish that we could at least hear each other and that we all hear the same thing — what the speaker says. In fact, I am afraid that the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth does not understand that the Sports Foundation is not a sports society, but that it is a foundation which, through the funds of the Slovenian Lottery and the Sports Lottery, finances Slovenian sport, but we live in such times that Members can also be so viewed in the field of sport where they are vice-presidents of the mother body. The mutual insurance company has 900,000 members. This is about the same number as the number of electricity consumers. I claim that my comparisons were completely in place, and your relativisation of them has been completely depressed. It will also be difficult to take seriously the warning against a legal collapse by a man who does not distinguish between a general and a specific legal provision and who does not understand that a specific legal regulation has priority over a general or someone who is allegedly classically educated, let me also say in Latin terms, lex specialis applies even if lex generalis is otherwise regulated because it is in this area. Since I am speaking directly, I would still deny my colleague Györek, who said that RTV Slovenia acts as a public institution. That's not true. It works like it ever does, sometimes so, sometimes otherwise, but it is true that for the time being it is a public institution, and it is these changes in the marriages that are ahead that these two different realities should be brought together legally and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we have a third programme and a direct transmission to be able to monitor our discussions, audiences and viewers in order to maintain it in roughly the same content, and I am happy about it. I would like to speak a few words or sentences about our proposal, which the mother's working body has accepted to include members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia in the law. Whoever is speaking on this proposal on the south of nostalgia does not realize that we have already 20 years of countries that have emerged on the ground of the former Yugoslavia and that we are proposing to name those nations that today have their own countries — no one else. Secondly, it forgets and does not recognise that these representatives of other nations also participated in the process of independence of Slovenia in 1990 and 1991, that they had the right to vote on the plebiscite at the end of 1990 and that they in some way co-created independent and independent Slovenia. It is not true that we give any special rights to the visa of the constitutional categories of Hungary, Italy and the Roma. These rights, as they have, will be maintained, and it would be appropriate to make sure that we also do them in practice, because here and there are problems and there is our Italian and Hungarian minorities, as well as the Roma, are dissatisfied with the way things are being applied. It is not true that Europe, however it thinks and requires us not to enforce special rights in law or elsewhere for members of other peoples of the former Yugoslavia. You know, I will not say anything new if I read the demands, and the explicit requirements that international organisations for the protection of minorities, ECRIs and the like, and which propose that Slovenia finally show a more friendly attitude towards these so-called modern minorities or minorities that are not enshrined in the constitution, or representatives of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, to say that this treatment against European practice – it is the other way around – and I would just not like it to happen, because of the narrowness of some individuals and views in the parties, at this point also, at many points now in the last months and years when we receive from European institutions, that in the past with some groups – I would not like to call them not to open a new debate – we have not done the right thing. Finally, this is a requirement that in each report, more or less, is made by the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, and on this basis we have already taken appropriate decisions in the National Assembly. Therefore, do not be intimidated by what will happen, this is a requirement that we meet on the basis of European standards, this does not require new regulation and high costs, but requires or assumes that in time it may occur once a month after half an hour or maybe an hour programme for these members of individual nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. Can I help you? You have the floor, please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	President! Ambassador Potts has given me the opportunity to respond to the debate on this in an instant. I think that Mr Grims also mentioned equality before the law and payment of contributions, and these are exactly two arguments for mentioning everyone in the second paragraph of Article 2, which explicitly speaks of providing a wide range of content, programmes and services. However, remember that Article 3 in its second paragraph makes a very precise and precise distinction between national programmes, regional programmes, programmes and programming content. That's very important, I'd say, emphasis. The evidence that I think is simply unjustifiably attributed to this law is the alleged indiscretion of solutions and its subordination and, on the other hand, the current situation is being glorified. If so, then our media inspector should not have to react because of the lack of respect for advertising quotas, in particular during the football championship. If so, the existing Supervisory Board should not react when attempting to share the prizes in this regard. If the existing law were to be all right, then there would be no such confusion with the procedures for appointing the Director. But when you ask, and when you come a little later, once again, I stress that misleading an economic society in this place is simply not right. If we look around Europe, we can see that some of the TVs of the public society – we did not go there – that some of the televisions are public institutions – we could not do this in Slovenia because the institutions are subject to private law. And from here again, an attempt to argue that this particular form, which remains within public law, excludes certain liability processes from the Company Act, our response to the current many complex institutions in which it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Mr. Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! The problem with this Article is that it has seventeen paragraphs. If I make a comment on the whole law, there are almost no articles that I wouldn't have had at least five, six or a whole page. I must say that I am completely dissatisfied with the matter, because it comes two years later as it should be, and then in a form that does not withstand criticism. At least as far as I'm concerned, it would be better to have thirty more articles, but to be brief, because if a person can very much agree with one paragraph, then the problem is because the amendment has five of them and it is difficult to fully support the matter. But you can't go back here because things have gone too far. That is why I say that I will support this amendment, because I am convinced that it is right for RTV to remain a public institution, with all the attributes that belong to it. I especially like to delete that part or paragraph that says that employees are not public employees there. However, the law goes on to say in a number of articles about public service. It is likely that other public service workers will not perform unless they are public. If they're not public, let them do something else. But if they are to carry out the public service, as stated in the law, then they are public workers; this is what must be accepted as it is. Of course, since there are more good changes to this amendment than I do, for example, perhaps this third paragraph change, I will have to support the whole if I want at least something that I support to be actually covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome representatives of the Government into the Slovenian legal order, because in the Slovenian legal order we have resolved all such dilemmas, either in the form of a public institution or in the form of a normal economic society in all the options provided by Slovenian legislation. This is not the case with the European Union twice. For the first time, they have different constitutions, including other legal orders, and in particular the fact that something is set up as a share company does not constitute an argument for this incontrovertible, non-existent or unconceivable solution that you are proposing. Because in those countries they have properly regulated their entire business, from financial to other aspects, for a share society and then for such a company, there is no problem. In what you are proposing, however, the problems will surely be, because the matter is not clear, it is not defined, it is not specified and leaves a huge amount of free hunting for something that we will probably end up paying everyone, viewers and viewers, listeners and listeners, by paying an ever higher fee and having less of it, especially with regard to the content that represents the mission of public Radiotelevision, i.e. culture and information content. In fact, because of this, you have in some way written very clearly into a law that once again foresees pure automatoism of raising and encouraging RTV contributions. So it's fair to tell people that you're going to put extra pressure on them in a way that's going to keep growing; costs will, of course, be less important. However, TV can have a lot of reserves here, but it has proved in the past years that until you so insidiously inspired RTV’s contribution by amending legislation when adopting the budget, RTV’s contribution remained calm and was forgiven by all those who were in social difficulties. And this is the greatest possible excuse, the greatest possible reduction of the RTV contribution that could have been enjoyed by as many as a few thousand people. As regards costs, there will be production of specific software content, those specifically listed. This is clear from the following articles. Who's going to produce them: editorials. Well, there will be no doubt about it. Do not deceive the public that there will be no additional costs. And when you put some in a privileged position, and once again I warn you, you have forgotten that this has actually put everyone else in a different position without an adequate constitutional basis, and this is a problem, not what you are now referring to. You've forgotten about everyone else, ladies and gentlemen! You have not even mentioned all the former Yugoslav nations and nationalities, but all the other nations and nationalities that are now living on our soil and will be more and more because it is a principle based on the principles and reality of the European Union. You forgot that! And that's the problem! There's something else I'd like to point out. The law, when proposed, was a real national disgrace. It did not contain, unlike now in force, any single provision that would clearly define opinion pluralism and, at the same time, the question of the responsibility of those who co-create the programme. And then the journalists, ladies and gentlemen, and after them, we summarized those amendments, and they themselves proposed to return to law one of the provisions that also defines the issue of journalistic ethics and thus the responsibility. And they have all the credit for this because they have thus proved themselves to be aware that responsibility is an inseparable component and protector of journalistic freedom, that is, their professional freedom. And you, of course consciously, have forgotten that. You even forgot about regionalism, as if Slovenia were only Ljubljana. We'll get to this article and you've removed it from the law. You've forgotten a lot. On the question of the actual responsibilities of all those who will be involved here in this process on the basis of this law. These articles are either inconsequential or are simply not in law when it comes to what this house actually creates. The only bright point was that amendment that we summarized after the press union, so don't apologize to everyone else. This law is written with political objectives, political and will cause great problems for public Radiotelevision, all Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens who pay RTV contributions, and it will reach even deeper into their pockets, and they will get even less.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article and we turn to Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I then conclude the debate on Article 3 and move on to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, is there another hand? Just one hand. Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much. My colleague Grims has already said that regional television is forgotten, so we have awakened them and we propose to introduce ourselves to Article 5 of the amendment, which reads as follows: It ensures a comprehensive and evenly informed event in all Slovenian regions and local communities. When we propose this to the ministry, it says that it is already set somewhere else, or that it is only understandable, or that it itself works and so on and so forth. But I think it's different. One of the missions of national television is, of course, to inform evenly and equally about the situation in all Slovenian regions and local communities, and I think it is also written down because it is some kind of guarantee, but not that it is in itself clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah, I see your hands. I am opening my application to the debate on Article 5. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	The unrelenting fact, even for the current ruling coalition, is that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, is just a center. Slovenia is made up of a very beautiful spectrum of landscapes, which each have its own characteristics, represents each of its regions, from different municipalities, and, of course, it is right to report on all equally. It is not only about informing these people there, but you have forgotten this again, also about informing those in Ljubljana who certainly also have the right to know what is going on in Gorenjska, what is going on in Dolenjska, Styria, Maribor and elsewhere. This is the only way the country acts as a whole, and this is the only way to achieve the mission of national television. The second part of this spectrum, which was preserved by the adoption of the amendment, not thanks to the current government, but through the adoption of an appropriate amendment on the committee, is the fact that today people can monitor this, that there is a third TV channel. I share the joy of Mr Ptræ, who practically copied my provision of the previous law and I can only say to him, well, maybe the law he once criticized was not so bad that a lot of things have been copied and is now preserved as a quality. Unlike now the law in force – and thus I end – for which someone cashed a few ten thousand euros and represented one of the most expensive, if not the most expensive media legislative project in the history of independent Slovenia; for that bill in the draft – it was later processed, of course at the Ministry – the author did not receive a single tolar. Just one pile of human greed, expressed in the form of various insults, such and different, as you all know well. That's a big difference. In fact, the issue of relations, what is really about; some are about to make a public television mission, but some are obviously primarily about money, and then we get on the table a law that is not democratic, which is bad and which is rejected by so-called public broadcasters, the largest part of the public, people living in different regions, as this article, which is now ahead of us, which will in practice only mean an increase in costs, and, in practice, those who follow the programmes that we are following, will not bring exactly any specific new quality. Things are gonna get worse, according to Murphy's marriage, for the worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Both speakers have said much about the need to be informed evenly about the developments in all Slovenian regions, but have not been able to mention them, and Mr Zorn has not, and Mr Grims is lacking. In short, we have not yet been a domain in Slovenia, all of which are Slovenian regions, and Mr Grims was not exactly consistent. The government, whose support was under the previous mandate, did not propose Styria as a region, but you mentioned it yourself. Take note of yourself of how many of these regions there are: whether you should be consistent with the words, the Armenian-Przeleski region, the Upper Podravje, the Lower Podravje, you may mention the upper Gorenjska, Kamnisko-Sawska region, and other such artificially created regions. In short, RTV Slovenia is already doing this function and will be later. There's no reason to doubt that. Of course, if you believe in the mission and professional qualifications of journalists who are already doing this, this is the way they believe in your previous discussions. Until we agree on which regions of Slovenia are all, and then how we will communicate evenly and equally according to the number of inhabitants, by the head, I do not know whether or not, otherwise, such a provision is merely populism before local elections and nothing else. It's probably not going to be hard for viewers of the third program to figure that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	Therefore, my dear fellow Roses, because I did not want to make the same mistake as you did, I did not list the individual regions in the then text of the law, from which this amendment, which is now before us, but I wrote what I can quote. "It provides comprehensive and even information on developments in all Slovenian regions and local communities." All of them, Mr. Rozjej! And imagine how wonderful it would be if so much love for all parts of your country were to be overcome by you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Can I help you, Mr. Secretary of State? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you. The proposaler may prefer this specific amendment to compile the answer from what has been said, from what has been sent, because that is precisely what you said, Mr Zorn. The ministry at this point always answers the same. It recalls the second indent of Article 5(1), which refers to the obligation to provide quality information content that informs about the developments in the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that in this there is a subsumed equality of all regions; even more, what this institution does for a national when it is sometimes opposed by a commercial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 5 and the amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 16 and to the debate on the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[I can't see my hand.]] I conclude Article 16. We are moving on to Article 17 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Of course, it will always be difficult to ensure the realization of the interests of all stakeholders, as well as in bodies such as RTV Slovenia, this is already difficult, and the world has been quite wide and has not always managed sufficient quorum to be able to gather, make quality decisions and so on. He has always tried to get as much of a civil society as possible in it, and the current proposal is a compromise between efficiency and representativeness. This proposed amendment, which disseminates beneficiaries in certain segments, is at least interesting to me in one point, in order to appoint a member of the Council or also to elect the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. It's a civil society organisation, it's also written here with an exact name and a large starting point to know which institution it is. Let's say it's not written with a little bit that it could be a general organ. Especially because it is an organisation that has even been removed from the Registry of Justice in the past year, but I know that at least Mr Zorn, let's say, is very bad, because this sui generis form that we are now introducing will, in his opinion, cause exactly such complications as RTV Slovenia will not be able to register in the Register of Justice. At the same time, I think, within the framework of its parliamentary group, in Article 17 of the RTV Council, Slovenia wants to bring a representative of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, which has been proven to have been deleted in the past year, and then re-entered. In short, it is not exactly the relevant or the confidence of the exhilarating partner in this dialogue between civil society, but the national radiotelevision. In addition to flying to this body with other legitimate complaints, comments, we doubt that we could happen that the President of the National Council of Disability Organisations, in addition to four functions – or how many of them already have: in the State Council, the Foundation for Disability and Humanitarian Organisations, in the Lottery of Slovenia, in the National Council – would be given another state function and would be a five-time official. You may have also protested in your client many times against multiple officials; in the previous system this was a regular practice. Some keep this practice going, but I don't think it's a problem for us, but for those who have at least stayed with their heads in the previous system. I am sad that among these there is also the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the other hand, of course, I understand that. That is why I cannot particularly support this amendment because I do not believe that it really contributes to what the Radiotelevision Council of Slovenia is supposed to provide to Slovenian viewers and viewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. Anyone else? I see one hand. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	At times, human wisdom was a bit provocative, "long hair, short mind", but apparently sometimes there was an exception, which Mr. Rožej had just proved to be a fool in the amendment proposal, and he forgot the key issue; the SDS in this law did not propose any amendment itself, which would not have been proposed by the employees themselves on RTV Slovenia. Thus, by representative trade unions of journalists, labour councils or representative trade unions of the remaining employees in RTV Slovenia. That is to say, all the insults you so carelessly uttered on the air are flying on them, and I hope you will now swallow your saliva and at least apologize to them. Not because of us as customers, but because of the employees who did their best and proposed solutions that they could – I forgot to mention disability organisations – we also took into account the proposals made by disabled organisations, and so on this summer. In short, we made a set of all their amendments, because they could not directly propose them, and we as a party could then submit them for confirmation. And so before you make a fool of the solutions ahead of you, at least ask yourself who is the real author of these solutions and who proposed or supported them. On the one hand, I would like to point out in general that by amending the legislation, on the one hand, you have granted privileges to some for which you did not have a constitutional basis and, on the other hand, to the acquired rights of others, who now, as persons with disabilities, have their rights as enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, and the constitutional aspect of this work is becoming extremely controversial, unfair to the entire disability community, but I am afraid that for you and your law as a shortcut to the Constitutional Court. But if you don't want to listen to anyone and you're not interested in arguments, then you're discussing in the way we just witnessed it. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Rozej, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	I am always pleased when Comrade Grims begins to explain democracy, constitutionality and what these standards are, which in principle apply in parliamentary democracy, at least in the light of the experience of colleagues Grims so far with democratic, legal and constitutional procedures before they know the authorities in Slovenia and elsewhere in the civilized world, responsible for this. Of course, in the history of measuring the smart and the dumb can be won by the Butals, in practice, thank God, and in Slovenia, in measuring between constitutionality and stupidity does not win the stupidity, but wins the constitutionality. This is the Constitutional Court, and my colleague Grimes has proved it many times already. That is how I will argue with these, warn them, and do not blame me for anything else. I always go with a cane or a cane, or with a larger metric unit of doubt on your part. However, in the case of disabled organisations, it is also confirmed by the fact that, for example, this proposed qualified candidate in the world of RTV, the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, in the present world of RTV Slovenia, which was more broadly composed than that proposed here, had no representative. There must have been some reason for that. If this constitutionality was so great, I have no doubt that you, in your great concern under the constitutional order that must be in Slovenia, in the four years that you have definitely had this option, have already triggered, perhaps once before, when you were also an opposition Member or in any other way a politician. So here my conscience is clear, I will not apologize to anyone, but at least at your initiative, Comrade Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica, but I'm asking yes, please, Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you. The proposer is obliged to draw attention to three dimensions of any amendments to Article 17. It is our opinion that the possible adoption of this amendment would not provide a reasonable measure of legal predictability at three points; our current proposal is in line with the nationalities and very precisely defines the process of appointing representatives of both communities. Secondly, as the proposed amendment deals with the role of the President of the Republic in the appointment process, it leaves open space in some way for the representative of the religious communities, because the law must be determined in the light of the fact that a legal void would arise. Finally, the third dimension is the proposed inclusion of a representative of the National Council of Disabled Organizations. We feel that it is not necessary for persons with disabilities to have, in accordance with the proposal for a law, their programme committee, whose initiatives must be addressed and identified by the Council of RTV. Of course, it is possible for each of the candidates in the civil sphere to specifically recognise the importance of this social group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see one hand. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	However, in the previous law, both respected representatives of the Government were, and therefore, I claim that the current law has been reduced, intervened in the rights already acquired, and it will be possible to ask whether such solutions are appropriate or not. This will be decided by the Constitutional Court – and here I will go to my esteemed colleague Rose: I will warn you if I think something is wrong. As far as my journey to the Constitutional Court is concerned, you will not believe it! After all the roles I have given, say, about the majority electoral system that I actually wrote, or in 2002 about the elections to the State Council from the city municipality of Kranj, when it was assessed, the Constitutional Court, independent of the composition, in 2002 was completely different from before, judged in my favour. You're not gonna believe this! So you better make sure before you talk about anything. A smart Member will always do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 17 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 38 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude Article 38. We are moving on to Article 48 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can't see the hand. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 49 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will then be decided in accordance with the time frame of the Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2010. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this proposal at its 21st meeting. 9. 2010 Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer of the budget, it submitted, on this basis, a proposal for a decision on the amount of the funds belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2010, which it also referred to the National Assembly. Let me remind you that we have already adopted a proposal for a decision on the determination of funds belonging to individual political parties and that, in fact, the balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has also been adopted – this time the Committee proposes that, in accordance with Article 23 of the Political Parties Act, funds be reduced from 1 October 2010 until the end of 2010. The decision also states exactly how much the customer decreases, I will not list them, but I will say the total monthly amount: 234.082,41 euros is the current amount and the new amount for all political parties at the monthly level is 184.082,41 euros. This proposal for a decision has been adopted by the Committee unanimously and is also proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! According to the outcome of the parliamentary elections, political parties receiving more than a percentage of the votes of voters and voters in parliamentary elections are entitled to certain funds from the state budget. Thus, at the beginning of the mandate, this figure for 2008 amounted to EUR 235,000 per month and EUR 245,000 per month for 2009. In January 2010, we adopted a decision in the National Assembly to reduce significantly all political parties entitled to these funds. This time, once again, changes are coming in the direction of reducing financial resources, from which I should stress the dependence of political parties. Certainly, we, Members of the DeSUS, are never pleased with such cutting, as the result will be quite limited to our party's performance as well as to others; perhaps it is someone's wish or goal. This is all the more dissatisfaction because it is already another reduction of these grants in this year. However, we are aware that we, as representatives of political parties, must share the consequences of the financial situation, as we have confirmed when we adopt the 2010 budget rebalancing. That is when we adopted a reduction in the budget line for co-financing by 150 000 euros at the annual level. Accordingly, today we have before us a change in the decision to share these grants, which DeSUS Members may also support with bitterness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. Only the non-Government has spoken to her as a proponent. Mr. Gorenak, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision and the decision on the draft decision will therefore be taken at the time of the meeting, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 38th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 38. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the State assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Patria affair, which has been deeply involved in the opposition's previous mandate, is achieved by abolishing the anti-corruption commission of the National Assembly as part of its conclusion. The Marine Commission, which examined the annual report of the Kosovo Commission, ordered the Kosovo Commission to complete the 2008 report with the activities of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Kos, who had them in 2008, in connection with the activities of the Patria affair. It does not need to be emphasized that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission did not wish to supplement this report. And this also triggered a whole wave of activity against the President of the National Assembly, Mr Marinič, even in the coalition itself. First, a proposal was made to the leader of the largest Group of Social Democrats, which was an initiative, an invitation to our Group of Members to resolve Mr Marinič. A number of letters were also followed by members, members of the so-called Marine Commission, who in some inappropriate way tried to discredit the member, the chairman of this commission, Mr Marinič. The reason for all these pressures was not the reasons given in their letters, but only the opposition members were required to complete their annual report by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Kos. The Commission has also acquired certain other powers by amending the rules of procedure of this Commission, which has also been adopted as a result of the coalition’s vote to amend the Rules of Procedure in that Commission, thereby allowing the Commission to receive these reports regularly, on a monthly basis, as is usually the case with regard to the supervision of authorities having a specific status in that country. Regrettably, the coalition MPs realized that they had made a mistake for them and also tried to exert pressure on the President of the National Assembly and accused him of abuse in the work of the Commission. None of these claims, the honourable colleagues you referred to in your letters, has proved to be true and none of these claims have been made by President Marinic to abuse his office. It was not supported by any argument. The President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Kos, has also complained on several occasions, I think, three times to the Constitutional Court to decide on the contention of this regulation, this Rules of Procedure, but the Constitutional Court has always rejected the request of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Since the coalition could otherwise not get rid of the disagreeable president of the National Election Commission, who supervised the anti-corruption Kosovo Commission, you passed an integrity law and with it also abolished the state-level commission to oversee Kosovo's commission. By doing so, you have abolished the kind of powers that this Commission has had and part of these powers, a small part of these powers, then, on the basis of this law and the decision to be taken, you have transferred to the Mandate- voluntary commission led by the coalition. With this, you have also abolished an important function in the National Assembly of the Opposition. The opposition has the authority to oversee the work of the Government, to oversee the work of the anti-corruption commission, including the work of secret services. One of these committees is said to have been abolished by this law. We will not support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled for the motion for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act by emergency procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. I'm sorry, there's been a mistake. We are going back to the vote. The vote is under way. 63 Members and Members voted for 45 against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 15th item of the agenda – second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 22 votes to 36. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 40 to 19. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted, 24 to 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 17. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted, 43 to 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you, Chairman. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, I ask that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly carry out a third examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I say the same thing and therefore we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 23. 9. 2010, at the end of the 35th item of the agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include amendments to the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the assembly meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 38. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 16. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. (The vote was 41.)(against 21.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. (For the vote was 23.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 20. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 38, namely the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to the number 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 20. (The vote was 43.)(against 20.) We decide under number 2 on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 38. We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 21. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 49, pardon to Article 48. We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 21. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 49. We vote, the vote is on. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 21. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I repeat my text to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here you go. Please, Mr. Secretary of State Dr. Pelko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. This time, too, we propose that the National Assembly at the same meeting carry out a third examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote, the vote is on. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Not accepted. Not accepted. State Assembly third reading of the bill, pardon. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the Council of State will hold a third examination of the draft law at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We vote, the vote is on. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the amount of funds belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2010. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 38th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the Decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Tanko. Here you go. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The amendment of the decision on the establishment of working bodies and the tasks of working bodies will, in this case, deal with a state-level committee dealing with the supervision of the so-called Kosovo Commission. The moment that this Commission decided that it was necessary to complete the report on the work of the so-called Kosovo Commission in order to complete the 2008 report, all the alarms, all the red lights and all the activities of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission of Kosovo in relation to the Patria affair were set on fire in coalition, and that moment began with all the activities to be discredited first and then also resolved by the President of the State Parliament Commission, our fellow Member, Mr Marinic. In fact, Patria's affair has been deeply used in these pre-election matters in the past mandate, even later, but despite many promises, the coalition has not shown any serious intention of doing anything in this area actively until the time when the annual report of the Kosovo Commission was requested to be completed. Here I must say that it was tried first by discrediting the President of the National Assembly, and later some attempts were made by members of the coalition parties, members of the commission and also the leaders of the parliamentary group of the largest coalition party with calls to our parliamentary group to replace the President of this commission, Mr Marinič, with another, with a more appropriate personality. That didn't happen. Nor did it succeed in attempts to repeal the Rules of Procedure of this Commission in the Constitutional Court, which allowed the National Assembly's supervisory committee to systematically monitor the work of the so-called Anti-Corruption Commission. Since all of this has failed, in the coalition, and above all the government, you have achieved by adopting a new law on integrity, where it has completely abolished the state-level oversight. In particular, because of this chapter, this area is highly manipulated and misused in the work of the National Assembly, and also in the public domain, we will not support this amendment proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 20. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, to the question of Mr Bogovic, on the implementation of systemic reforms. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonko Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question by Mr Zvonko Černač on foreign investments. You have the floor, Mr. Cernač, on behalf of the Group of Members. Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will discuss the answer to the question, not about foreign investment, but whether it is possible to resolve the Slovenian economy with dirty money. We will, of course, support this debate. In response to this question, in connection with the deal concluded with the grip of Prime Minister Pahor with Prime Minister Libia, Prime Minister Pahor ensured that it works equally and equally for all Slovenian companies. A few moments after this note was published online, his secretary announced that the work had been concluded by the SCT. Thus, the Prime Minister publicly lobbied for a private company, not for any private company, but for a company that pays its workers in a poor way or does not pay its subcontractors who do not pay and pay regular taxes and in which reasonable suspicions of money laundering were expressed for the purposes of wild property. The director of this company paid the highest salary in this country last year, €800,000 or €3,000 less. About the same time, a few days before the event, the Slovenian Prime Minister publicly called for bankruptcy of Vegrad, a company in which the state has its share of co-ownership. There's no co-ownership in the SCT. Therefore, in this debate it will be necessary to clarify whether the Slovenian Prime Minister really works in the interest of the entire Slovenian economy, whether it is possible to increase the gross domestic product with such transactions, whether they have any Slovenian workers from these transactions, whether they have any Slovenian companies or not, last of all, they have a Slovenian budget. The data show no, because the realisation in the first half of this year is worse than it was in the first half of last year. With 120 million lower revenues than in the first half of last year, €200 million was paid to the budget and the deficit in the first half of this year's state budget is €320 million, a billion last year. Nor is it true that the Prime Minister said in his reply to the question yesterday that it would be better this year or that it was better this year than it was last year. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it is worse this year, as regards individual companies, whose hand with the grip of hands with foreign statesmen holds the prime minister, but of course it is better that the president of this company would not have paid EUR 800,000.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 26, for 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Franca Križaniča on the question of the delegation. Andrej Visiak in connection with the predicted change in property taxation. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 26, for 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Daniel Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Darje Radic to the question of the Parliamentary question of Daniel Krivec concerning the Regulations on school calendar. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. We will support this proposal in our parliamentary group. I also appeal to colleagues and colleagues who also receive calls from the tourism economy to support this debate. We have already requested the debate at the same time as Minister Luksic's reply to the same question when he vehemently stated that the Ministry has not done any analysis of economic damage as it does in no case. I think that this answer already requires that we discuss this. In response to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister shall state the reasons for which they do not hold, since the reply officially sent by the Ministry to the Community of the Communities and to the interested municipalities which have requested an answer is in contradiction. Another important reason is that the former Minister, who led the Ministry of Economy, made his dissatisfaction and opposition to this rule clear. The same was answered by Minister Radic at the hearing, when she was not yet Minister. She clearly replied that this was the right response from the tourist economy. It was interesting, however, that she had clearly found that the Ministry of Economy could only react when the Regulation was published. Thus, the claim made by Minister Luksic that the case had been published for 45 days is not true. And the current Minister made it clear at the hearing that not only did they oppose this, but they also addressed a protest letter to the minister, and that this was an unacceptable decision for the Ministry of Economy. I think there are more than enough reasons to discuss this. I think this is also necessary because of the transfer of the government, because somewhere in April, there were many words spoken in May about how the tourism economy should be helped. Yesterday, too, the Prime Minister made it clear in his reply that the economy must be supported. Here, however, we have an eloquent case where, with a rule at the level of one ministry, we break down and threaten a certain part of the economy, and no one wonders whether this is appropriate or not. And the Minister's response yesterday, that they would only follow for one year, two if the damage would occur, and then change the rules later, is unacceptable to me. That is why I call on you to support this initiative. I think it was the first time we discussed this that very few of those you opposed to having a concrete debate on this. I ask for support to resolve this important matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	We're voting. 69 Members and Members, 27 votes to 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Ivan Grill's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Dr Rok Žarnic to the question of Mr Grill on the provision of chimney services. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	I believe that many Members are being complained of or invited to try to regulate the unregulated area of the provision of chimney services. Many users are bitter and powerless over the abuses committed by many companies and individuals throughout Slovenia. I asked this question yesterday, and I didn't get a specific answer to it. What exactly is this about? Smokers charge, even though the government regulation does not allow them to do so, transport when they arrive to carry out checks. We have frequent cases that in a block where there are more than 10 users, they charge each individual arrival service at a location of 3.2 euros. We also have all the documents for this and market inspectors have been alerted. Many times smokers who come to the scene are essentially charging something they haven't done at all. I have a concrete case that just to write down the burner number on a small combustion plant, the warden received an account of 78 euros. Then there are cases where smokers who are not professionally qualified go to regulate combustion plants and, of course, completely corrupt them, so that users, if they want this device to work normally, have to call the qualified repairers again and, of course, have to pay for it again. In addition, chimneys carry out and charge calibrations or measurements carried out by untested appliances and, in fact, our legislation does not allow them to do so. All with the goal of paying our users for something that is totally unnecessary. As I have already mentioned, the market inspector has also called, in view of the irregularities identified, for the Ministry of the Environment to go into professional control and begin the procedure for the withdrawal of concessions to all those companies which also carry out such irregularities. Regrettably, whether the Ministry of the Environment or the Minister has introduced any procedure to monitor and withdraw the concession, the Minister has not replied to this and has expressed the expectation that Members will support all the proposals that the Ministry is expected to try to change in the near future. That is why I am of the opinion that such a debate, where all these problems would be enlightened here, could help all these irregularities to be settled in a more transparent and fair way for our users. I therefore propose or call on you to join us in supporting this proposal and holding a general debate on these irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 67 votes in favour, 27 in favour, and 40 in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Milenk Zicherl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question of the Parliamentary question of Milenk Ziherl regarding the election of ambassadors of the European Union's foreign service. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members voted for 27 to 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic's question on the matter of State aid was sent to Marjan Bezjak. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members voted for 26 to 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mag. Franca Žnidaršič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question of mag. Franca Žnidaršič in connection with the implementation of the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the open issue of war damage by the Republic of Germany. You have the floor, Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. Explanation of voice. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this proposal because, after sixteen years of adoption by the National Assembly, the Government has decided twice that it should take appropriate steps and negotiate with Germany to recover war damage, we have not received the required report at that time. In Mr Samuel Žbogar's replies, however, it felt that these talks were more or less informal and carried out in a way that no result had been achieved and that our party had not been able to reach even the beginning of negotiations on the subject. In the fact that only our country and Greece have not adopted a peace agreement with the Republic of Germany, we are still, in fact, still at war with the Republic of Germany, the issue of reparation and war damage is open, tens of thousands of our citizens expect this problem to be resolved from the past, and I mean, of course, the non-discriminatory treatment of all those who have suffered severe material damage in World War II, and it would be right to clarify the matter to the extent that we can say that the matter is closed. It would be appropriate to see from the debate whether and what has been done so far, whether something can be done in the future and whether the matter will remain open. I therefore think that this debate is justified and therefore I wish to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Anyone else? Mr. Vinko Gorenak. On behalf of the delegation or explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you. Just in your own name. I myself think this decision is to be supported in any case for a fundamental reason, because yesterday, from the Minister's replies to this topic, a little strange statement was heard. They spoke informally about coffee twice, although the minister said that sometimes informally more depended. There is another reason; I would like to talk very much about this subject with some Members. [[...]] By the way, I met material damage to World War II in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. I have been visited by an elderly lady, at the moment I do not remember her name, she is at home from the Murska Sobota, who runs this society, and she has made it very clear to me that she has all the support of the opposition, that the leader of the opposition absolutely supports this, but that there is an ugly government in this country, an ugly Janš government that does not allow it. Now, we have prepared this law, too, this needs to be said very clearly. This law was prepared in the previous term, otherwise it did not allow, I will say, 100% of the payments and so on, but some percentage, however! Now the situation has turned around. This lady comes back to me and says, "God, come on, let's do something!"but now he also goes to Mr. Potsch, but Mr. Potts now does not accept. It would therefore be good to have an exchange of views on this subject in the context of Mr Žnidaršič's proposal and to show the public and this lady some real face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the warnings of our colleague, Mr Žnidaršič. In the past, we have also warned and asked for answers. The finding that this lasts sixteen years is certainly accurate and of course that all governments have not done much in this area so far, including ours in this mandate. But according to the information we have, some conversations are going on and we let diplomacy do its job. Let me warn or point out that, in the past, we have also warned and requested and asked for answers and for appropriate action by each government - especially our colleague Miran Potrč – and we will continue to work actively in this area. I am aware of the letter signed by colleague Anderlič, colleague of Urh and colleague of Potrč, addressed to the Secretary of State with a request to organise a meeting with the competent ministers or representatives of the ministries and to determine how far this story is to be pointed out by the injured party. It is important to say, however, that the debate itself in the National Assembly does not give any added value here, as it has not given in past cases. This is a debate that usually lasts five hours, a debate that discusses everything, but at least the contents of the President or the Minister's reply to an individual question sent, and where we usually disagree until the end of the debate whether the answer was good or not. This would be the case, too, with no special added value. Therefore, just as before, the Group of the Social Democrats of this debate, which does not reach any conclusions at the end, but is only a debate, will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Miran Run in a Hairy Name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I agree with the content of my colleague Kontić's statement. But I had to stop by because, as thick a lie as was said by Mr Gorenak, she is indeed not worthy of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	No argument, please. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	I also learned that negotiations on this subject are ongoing, but I heard similarly two years ago, four and 16 years ago. Whether this debate will give added value or not – a matter needs to be made public; not in the sense of revealing what diplomacy is doing, diplomacy seems to be working intensively, but as some form of pressure on the government to resolve it in this mandate. I will support Mr Žnidaršič's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 34. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Frank Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question by Mr Puksic, on the question of discharge by the President of the NKBM Supervisory Board. Here you go, Mr. Puksich. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	Yes! Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Weak month after the written statement by the President of the Supervisory Board of the second largest Slovenian bank owned by the State of Maribor, after his written defence of the action filed against him, I had a press conference in Maribor, apparently with enough information and data when I pointed out many open problems. In particular, I drew attention to the 2007 audit - according to information, clearly, within the company, within the administration, otherwise this person could not have known - the audit was prepared by the heads of staff, and then the auditors signed it only. Given that they were also replaced in that year – not all – by suppliers with Mercury and that the prices were then higher from Mercury's stand, which somehow led to the suspicion of clientism and corruption, and now it turns out that this is not what they call it, but that it is "a silent associate of a silent associate". In short, one of the companies is Danilo Toplek, which is a silent partner of a silent partner, who did business with Talum and Talum is a company that owns 80% of the country. On all of this and on the purchase of Mercura shares with the shares of the NKBM, with the shares of the Ljubljana Bank, we have pointed out, then we have also pointed out the payment of electricity to Eles via the intermediary company and the contract relating to the supply of 40 thousand tonnes of aluminium, where about 30% took place directly, and the rest through Sweden, I propose that we hold a debate on the minister's response. In fact, Danilo Toplek himself admitted, in explanation, that with her, that with this silent society, he had become, saying that with her he wanted the debtor himself to repay him some of the contributions he had made as an entrepreneur and advised him. Of course, it's construction business in itself. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ivan Grill, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology to the question of co-financing of doctoral tuition. Mr. Grill, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I also did not get the right answer to this question, which I asked Minister Golobic, but it was a change in the co-financing of the doctoral study. In the past, a doctoral study was co-financed by the Ministry in order to publish a public invitation to tender to apply for all higher education institutions which have also implemented such a programme. Universities and independent higher education institutions could be involved. By this regulation or by this modified method, it has now essentially changed the way funding is financed so that doctoral studies can be funded only to those colleges that fall within the framework of all four universities in Slovenia. Thus we have many, I can say, reputable and also state higher education institutions, which are now automatic, because of this way of co-financing, disabled. This is Jože Stefan's International Postgraduate School, then here is the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, which is a national university, and other such quality higher education institutions are automatically prevented from co-financing. With the reply that Minister Golobič gave yesterday and his statements, of course, I cannot agree in any way, because they are wrong and also misleading. Because his argument that doctoral studies within universities could be conducted in a more qualitative, more multidisciplinary manner is, of course, misleading. Because a lot of data shows that lecturers, who are also in individual colleges or other higher education institutions that are not in universities, can be significantly higher rankings after all these points, have more research achievements, more articles than some lecturers in colleges, which are now allowed to co-finance within universities. This means that this is a discriminatory way for all those students who can be very talented, very talented, but who have not studied or who do not want to study in Slovenian universities to be disabled in this way. This means that those who are not well placed will not be able to study in postgraduate studies in this way. This means that this is discriminatory and will have irreparable consequences in the distant future of higher education. I therefore propose that the debate be held on this subject, to explain where those key reasons are, to change the way co-financing is done, and to see whether this is meaningful or not. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	Mr Guido Kres wants the word in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	I will support my colleague Grill's initiative, because in this case, it seems to me that discrimination is taking place, because all colleges, all institutions that want to work on their education programme, must have their programmes verified. And with this we automatically work in Slovenia the difference between universities both state and private. I do not think that this will save so much – as is most likely to be done now because of any savings – because so many students are not enrolled in doctoral studies that this could in any way endanger the functioning of other universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 20th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
