ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Miran Jerič, mag. Borut Sajovic for the start of the session and from 18:00 onwards, Dr. Vinko Gorenak after 18:00, Tadej Slapnik from 2.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. and mag. Stefan Tessel. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! Your Honor! A good week ago, a terrible earthquake in Haiti took more than 10,000 lives, and many others fell into the struggle for survival. I ask for a minute of silence in memory of the deceased in the earthquake in Haiti. [[...]] [[One minute of flour.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 18th session, on 18 January 2010. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63, against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the constitutional and legislative provisions of the State's draft decision in connection with the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia, the report on the sums of the corrupt financing of economic companies, which shareholdings are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative areas of the state, with the costs of business banks in the majority of the majority, and in the time of the highest credit crunch. The draft decision was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Mr Andre Visiak for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group requested an extraordinary meeting. We have had quite a few difficulties that this reference has also been made, we have been rejected several times, and this call for or request for an extraordinary meeting is due to the fact that Members, who, last but not least, are responsible for certain supervisory institutions in this country, specifically the Bank of Slovenia, have not come along some normal path to the data that we wanted to obtain and that have an impact on our work and also on our decisions, more broadly. What was the occasion or what was the first milestone and the start of all these activities? This is the fact that information has come to the public that Nova Ljubljanska Banka, a share company that is owned by a majority of state-owned banks, should grant loans to Ultra Group companies without adequate insurance. It is important to underline that one of the owners of the company in the Ultra Policy Group, Minister of the Government of Borut Pahor and President of the political party Zares, is Mr Gregor Golobič, who has already lied in public about his ownership in this group. When we have seen in the public the data provided in this table that credits to the Ultra Group of around EUR 6 million are not adequately secured, so that the first-class insurances, in the section of the corresponding insurance and in the section of the relevant zero-insurance policy, the Commission for the supervision of public finances as well as to many Members has been strengthened by the idea that in this particular case there has been some other criterion in the granting of credit, not the criteria for some normal credit insurance, but the political criterion; the criteria, since this is a policy of the ruling entity, which is likely to be sufficient insurance for the loan hired or not. We were therefore interested in the Commission for the supervision of public finances, whether this document, which it has rounded up in public and which we have also received on the Commission, is genuine, credible, or whether the picture of the actual situation. This is what we wanted to check with both the New Ljubljana Bank and the supervisory institution, which is Banka Slovenije. None of these institutions gave us any information that this document would be unreliable and that the data on this document would be false or misleading. Moreover, we received the following information from the New Ljubljana Bank at our request. It says that the loans to the Ultra Group and the Temple Holding Group, which are subject to this table, are adequately secured in the first case in the Temple Holding Group and that the loans to the Ultra Group are secured from the second letter following, with bills, guarantees, claims flags and mortgages. We are further asking this same bank about the adequacy of insurance, the primacy of the insurance of these loans, and we are not getting any data. More than enough suspicion that something is being hidden, someone is being protected and in this case treated according to some other criteria, as is done in similar cases where an economic operator wants credit. It is also worth stressing the situation that has taken place in the last year and a half in Slovenia when a number of companies need financial resources for current business, when they need development funds when they need funds for employees' salaries, they do not get loans. They are subject to criteria that, I don't know, with a factor of up to 2, let alone some normal factors of 1.6, secure loans, but in this particular case, the boxes under "appropriate insurance", "appropriate insurance", "first-class insurance" are empty. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a reasonable suspicion that in this case these are elements of clientism and even corruption. Because if someone gets a loan beyond the established criteria, and someone else has to meet them in some way, it's a partial treatment that comes from their political power. Therefore, members of the opposition, especially the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, wanted to get to the bottom of this matter. She wanted information on how to secure these loans. The Ultra Group untied the bank's silence in order to issue this data, but the bank refused to provide this data. The bank won't give them up today. The Commission of Inquiry, which has been established, has not yet obtained satisfactory data to demonstrate the manner in which these loans are secured, but only to demonstrate the appropriateness of the collateralisation of these loans. After a few months of torture by obtaining this data from a state-owned bank, the supervisory authority responsible for this Parliament is, I am told, sufficiently justified for an in-depth debate on this point also at the plenary session of the National Assembly. That's why we asked for it. And today I hope we get the information we want. And these data are: whether these loans to this particular legal person, to a group of legal persons, are secured in accordance with the legal definitions of what is first-class insurance, appropriate and appropriate insurance, and in accordance with the internal rules of this institution which approved these loans, this is the New Ljubljana Bank. Or Nova Ljubljanska Banka will refer to one of the indents of the internal rules. This is that in individual cases the criteria do not apply so that the credit committee, reading the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, can decide otherwise in a specific case. We are interested in whether this is a specific case because it is a specific co-owner because it is a co-owner who is the Minister of the Government of Borut Pahor because it is also a co-owner, who is also the President of the Party of Zares. And that the matter is not innocent, there is also evidence of the human resources disaster that you have committed at the New Ljubljana Bank in the last year, when you have been mocking the promises of the current Prime Minister of the Government that there will be no political personnel, that the exclusive criteria of knowledge and expertise will be placed first at the head of this bank of the policy, the elected Member, who has renounced his mandate to sit at the head of this bank. Of course, it triggered a storm in the coalition, the party Zares, who longed for this role, was insulted and hurt, started to stumble, increased political pressure on the decisions of the administration and the credit committees began, and finally the matter ended as it began - the policy brought about by the president of the administration and the policy carried out by the President of the administration, Mr Draška Veselinovic. Indeed, at a time when the economy needs an effective service of the financial sector and this largest Slovenian bank, we have witnessed a kindergarten, political behaviour in the recruitment of this key financial institution. And there must have been some kind of vendetta. The one who took Mr Veselinovic received this information on the bias of Mr Golobič's treatment and his co-ownership by the New Ljubljana Bank in the past. The matter is perfectly logical, even more logical in this spirit of keeping the data. Because if we didn't, we wouldn't be in the public eye, and if we didn't, the New Bank of Ljubljana would be holding them right away, the second they came to the public, very firmly demented. Today and to this day, the new Ljubljana Bank has not denied and rejected the credibility of this data. More. She discussed how this information had come to the public and also concluded this examination, an internal investigation, by finding and filing a criminal complaint against an unknown offender who violated the internal rules of the bank and forwarded this information to the public. The internal investigation has not shown that there would be any inaccurate data, as an internal investigation would probably not have triggered a prosecution against someone who had made a forgery public. Because almost everyone can do that. Because he doesn't know what's going on in the bank, he can send out a fake -- "and they're what," it's said after modern this. However, this was not the case; the data was accurate. The data hurt. It is necessary to "hang" the one he put out, not the one that brought in and led to such information that is worrying. Many entrepreneurs wonder why I'm bad, why I can't get a loan, which I don't know how many properties when they're laughing at me at the bank, if I tell them I'm going to secure a credit card, because it's a worthless insurance. But here we have a policy that is the currency of the underlying insurance instrument when the bank does not say whether it has insured these loans properly. This is unfair to those people who need money today to offer the necessary economic growth and, consequently, the country's taxes to function as wage providers. So they can't get credit, but someone who's in power at the trough can get that credit by way of criteria or by the criterion of political power and ruling position. These are the reasons why the Members have proposed this. It is true that €6 million represents a lot of money for all of us. It is true that some of the coalition said that this is a minor visa for you to the stability of the Slovenian banking system and the New Ljubljana Bank, because it represents a few dozen proms of the balance sheet sum of the New Ljubljana Bank, but it is a deviation, it is a systemic error, a systemic unacceptable situation in our society, that politics can, for the first time, lie to the public that politics can co-owner companies abroad and avoid paying taxes in our country, and that politics can, after all, obtain a loan on a different path as is the case with normal citizens. It's rude, not just rude, it's unacceptable. I therefore hope that this debate will shed light on this situation in different light, so that it will also help to ensure that this will no longer occur. In order to help, last but not least, to remove from the banking internal rules such broad powers from the credit committees that they can decide on a specific case, however it may seem to them. And that we will finally be dealt with in this country before bank windows or in front of bank employees at least about the same and equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, to give you only a summary of the extensive report of the committee you received today on the bench to consider a proposal for a decision on the Bank of Slovenia to report, within the framework of the constitutional and legislative provisions, to the National Assembly on the suspicions of corrupt financing companies whose shareholdings are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at national level, by commercial banks owned by a majority of the country, at the time of the worst credit crunch. At its 18th urgent meeting on 18 January 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a decision concerning a proposal by the Bank of Slovenia to report, on the basis of constitutional or legal provisions, to the National Assembly on the suspicions of corrupt financing by companies whose shareholders are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at national level, by commercial banks in majority state ownership, at the time of the worst credit crunch, submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, at the request of the State Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which concludes that the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly relating to the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia to report to the National Assembly in the proposed text, taking into account the particulars, falls within the competence of the National Assembly. On the basis of a complementary explanation by the representative of the applicants, the request concerns a broader issue faced by many companies at the time of the credit crunch, in particular with the parallel caution of banks in approving loans. Since the case in question concerns Ultra, on the basis of a document which appeared in the public eye, the absence of other compulsory insurance terms, is primarily, appropriately or appropriately, and has not been able to obtain the information requested by the competent public financial control committee, which would serve as a basis for a sufficient assessment of the quality of credit insurance, the applicants consider that the adoption of the decision submitted is on-the-spot. The Committee was also provided with explanations at the meeting by the two representatives of Banka Slovenije, from which it follows, among other things, that the granting of credits without insurance constitutes part of the established practice of banking systems or interbank markets both in us and in the world. Therefore, in a particular case, it would be difficult to assume that an unsecured loan is a sign of corruption and constitutes an increased risk. Otherwise, when providing adequate insurance, the bank shall first of all pursue a business interest in the form of a profit, irrespective of the borrower’s person. And where there is talk of non-insurance, it is essentially a basic insurance with a key assessment of the expected future cash flow, which is in the domain of individual banks. On the other hand, it is important for the central bank to take account of the influence factor on the achievement of the objective of the stability of both the banking system and the individual bank in particular of whether the insurance is sufficient. At the hearing, the Committee was informed of both proposals for an amendment to the Committee on the initiative of five members of the Committee, presented to the Committee by the first-signed Member, Vila Trofenik. It also follows from that discussion that Ultra’s exposed loan is secured by already having half of the loans repaid. At the same time, explicitly listed securities with estimated value, are a multiple or appropriate advantage, at the same time, according to the representatives of banks in terms of supervision, it is not possible to detect corrupt acts, at least not within the meaning of the statutory obligation of such declarations. Subject to the reasonable application of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee, acting on an initiative to the basic decision, has drawn up and adopted an amendment to the Committee, which amends the basic decision in its entirety, proposing that the National Assembly of the Bank of Slovenia, within its constitutional and legal powers to ensure the stability of the banking system, collect and analyse data on the credit obligations of companies which could potentially pose a risk to the security and liquidity of banks, be informed by the National Assembly. At the same time, the National Assembly expects the Bank of Slovenia to take the necessary measures to ensure the security of liquidity and prudential behaviour, where the perpetrator is being prosecuted for official duty, to notify the competent authorities. Following the adoption of the amendment, the Committee did not define the application for a consequence of immateriality until the applicant's decision, while the second part of the initiative was withdrawn. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended decision, which includes the adoption of the amendment and which you have in writing, has been prepared in the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, honourable President of the National Assembly! Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a decision, by which I quote: "The National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia, within its constitutional and legal powers to ensure the stability of the banking system, that it collects and analyses data on the credit obligations of companies which could potentially pose a risk to the security and liquidity of business banks and thereby inform the National Assembly." Next. "For reasons of confidence in the banking system, the National Assembly of the Bank of Slovenia expects that, in order to ensure the safe operation of business banks in the case of credits, when companies as lenders of credit are unable to repay, whether they are not adequately insured, whether the bank has abandoned prudential conduct, initiated supervisory checks and taken appropriate measures to ensure security and liquidity, for example, the possibility of additional insurance requirements and ensuring prudential behaviour, for example, in the event of suspicion that a criminal offence of corruption for which the perpetrator is prosecuted after official duty has been committed has been committed, this has been announced to the competent authorities." End of quote. The Bank of Slovenia shall establish, enforce and supervise a system of rules that ensures the safe operation of banks, supervise banks with a view to verifying whether the bank operates in accordance with the risk management rules and other specific rules governing the provision of financial services managed by the Bank. In the management of the control of the bank, it systematically checks the organisational structure, procedures, systems, strategies and processes, assesses the risks to which the bank is or could be exposed in its operations, and assesses the financial position and risks to which the bank is or could be exposed as a result of relations with other persons in the banking group, it is said, for systemic reasons. The purpose of the supervision is to determine whether a sound and reliable management system is provided and to adequately cover the risks to which the bank is or could be exposed in its operations. At the request of the Bank of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia shall provide reports and information on all matters relevant to the exercise of control or exercise of other powers and tasks of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank is bound by legislation to disclose credit insurance information to Banka Slovenije. In view of the need for its impartiality and professional competence, the importance of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia is determined only by the inclusion of this provision in the Constitution of Slovenia, the substantive supplement contains the Bank of Slovenia Act stipulating that the Bank of Slovenia and the members of its decision-making bodies are independent in the performance of their duties and are not bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of the State or any other authorities, nor must they address them in accordance with instructions or guidance. Both legal acts further provide that Banka Slovenije shall report its work at least half a year exclusively to the National Assembly. Detailed arrangements for reporting data found during supervision of bank operations should be found in the Banking Act, which, due to its specialty, provides for deviations from the general reporting arrangements of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly. Because of the sensitive nature of such data, they have a potential impact on the stability of the financial system, which Banka Slovenije must protect as confidential. The Bank of Slovenia may use the confidential data obtained exclusively for the purpose referred to above for which the data have been obtained. The Banking Act clearly and unequivocally provides that confidential data may be transmitted to the National Assembly in the form of a summary from which data may not be disclosed to the individual banks to which the report relates. Exceptions where restrictions on the transmission of confidential data to the public authorities are not applicable are tax and exclusive and there is no such information to the National Assembly. It should be noted that the data confidentiality regime described in the Banking Act is consistent with European legislation that regulates in the same way the protection of confidential data obtained under bank supervision. Other authorities are responsible for the prosecution of corruption. If, when carrying out statutory control, the Bank of Slovenia is required to obtain information indicating the suspicion of any criminal offence, it must inform the authorities responsible for the prosecution of such offences in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Dear Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not object to the content of the above-mentioned proposal for a decision, but it is of the view that, in the course of the discussion of the proposal for a decision on the reporting of bank data by the Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly obtained in the course of the supervision of the operation of banks, it should nevertheless pay attention to the legal limitations set out in the Bank of Slovenia Act and Banking Act for these cases of data reporting. More about our activities in eliminating credit crunches, about the role of various business banks in this discussion, both after this point and after the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. At the Liberal Democracy Club, as always today, we believe that the only right path is the legal path. With regard to the allegations that occurred in the public regarding the acquisition of loans by Ultra d.o.o. in the Group of Members, we represent the view that such suspicions should be properly clarified. That is why we have joined the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club in participating in the investigative commission dealing with these issues, and we are also taking a serious part in this investigative committee. In the light of this, we find today's extraordinary meeting proposed by the biggest opposition party somewhat unusual. Finally, the commission of inquiry hasn't even gotten a good start. Just because at the LDS Club we believe that in the so-called Golobič investigative commission - we have proposed that the commission assign to Minister Gregor Golobic the status of the investigator. [[...]] Unfortunately, the president of the commission of inquiry does not wish to put to the vote, which gives us the feeling that there is no real interest on the opposition side after clarifying the situation, but that interest is completely different, so it is political stallion. At the LDS, we believe that the Commission of Inquiry must do its work, prepare a report, and the National Assembly must hold a debate on this report. We also believe that, in the case of Ultra, they must do their job for this competent institution. At the LDS Club, however, we point out that the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act require this institution to report to the National Assembly on the work of the Bank of Slovenia as a whole and not on individual cases. Individual cases or acts of corruption and persecution are part of the work of other authorities. If it turns out that there is any circumstance that raises questions about respect for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia by any minister, the LDS Club expects law enforcement and justice authorities to carry out their work in accordance with the law and powers that these institutions also have. According to the LDS, the Institute of Inquiry is an important tool for the opposition in its task of overseeing the coalition. This is precisely why we are surprised by the opposition's insistence on this extraordinary meeting which interferes with the commission of inquiry, which was set up at the request of opposition parties. We are getting the feeling that the opposition is willing to sacrifice parliamentary tradition and procedure on the altar of media exposure and populism. It is clear that the meeting of the National Assembly on the subject for which the investigating committee of the National Assembly is responsible, the President of which is one of the most opposition parties, intervenes in the work of this committee; the Commission, which was set up to clarify and explain to the Slovenian public all the circumstances concerning the alleged corruption of Minister Gregor Golobic; the Commission, which has met only four times until today; the Commission, whose President does not wish to adopt a decision which would have declared the alleged culprit and prime suspect Minister Golobic to be an investigator at the work of this commission. Because of the above facts and our deep belief that Slovenia is a legal country in which everyone must be held accountable, that is, in which everyone must be held accountable for the crimes if he has committed them, we support the proposed decision in the LDS. At the LDS, we want and expect the situation to be clarified, that the competent authorities will do their job and, as far as we can, we will also contribute to this with full responsibility, both through constructive participation in the work of the investigating authorities and by supporting the proposed decision at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Melita Župevc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share the concern of the candidates for the financial and economic stability of Slovenia. However, because our concerns are sincere and because we are truly aware of our responsibility, the SD Members will support the decision that has also been adopted by the Committee on Finance. This Bank of Slovenia proposes to report to the National Assembly, within its constitutional and legal powers to ensure the stability of the banking system, so as to draw attention to risks and measures when necessary. In opening, I would like to point out that, on the Committee on Finance, Banka Slovenije representatives are specifically and very clearly stressed, for the first time, that they are obliged and competent to report to the National Assembly on the stability and exposure of the banking system as a whole, not on individual cases. Another time. The Bank of Slovenia should report this to law enforcement authorities and not to the National Assembly. Third time. The Bank of Slovenia is independent in its work and is not bound to our instructions. That's the point. However, the National Assembly cannot act as an investigator, much less as a speedy court. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party convened an extraordinary meeting to identify the corrupt financing of companies owned by public officials at the time of the credit crunch. In doing so, she stressed that such loans, as was given, for example, Ultra, do not only pose a serious threat to public finances. Disclosure of data is also considered by the SDS as the main reason for the global financial crisis. It is, as the proponents say, "a threat to the entire democratic system". What an easy judgment on the basis of one case. Let there be no doubt, in the SD Group we will support all the debates that will really, constructively and well-meaningly address the problems of financial and economic stability, greater economic growth and a faster exit from the economic crisis in Slovenia; discussions that will be geared towards greater prosperity for all Slovenian citizens, greater social security and a better perspective for all. We do not want and will not support those who use the financial and economic crisis and abuse it for cheap political accounting with their political opponents who care more about stability and economic growth than they do. Let me draw attention to the words of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije about how the politicised extraordinary meetings can affect the decline of credit activity. I quote: "There are many uncertainties that affect this. One of the uncertainties is the political debate on individual cases past the procedures and procedures provided for by the laws." End of quote. Why not discuss the problems that Banka Slovenije points out in the report on the stability of the Slovenian banking system? Let's talk about how they've taken state measures to promote lending. As for unsecured loans. If you look at this same report by Banka Slovenije, it says that 42% of all short-term loans are unsecured and that loans, for example, are increasingly secured by real estate. The debates we have witnessed in recent days are populism and two-faced. What policy is this, if not double-faced, if we are not concerned and interested in anything other than a single case?Oh, my God! Why don't we talk about selling the Slovenian steel industry? The purchase of Sija, so it was found in the media, was supposed to be financed by Slovenian banks. And not to mention the other interesting details of this shameful sale! Why aren't we talking about the 21 million dollar loan from the 2007 Drava Power Plants to Zvon 1 Holding?Oh, my God! Why don't we talk about lending managers' takeovers?Oh, my God! On 22 June last year, the Bank of Slovenia submitted to the Commission for the supervision of public finances information on the exposure of the Slovenian banking system to credits for management acquisitions and acquisitions. And if you look at the data - this data shows that the credits for the takeover activity have increased significantly in the previous mandate - by €83 million on 31. 12. 2004 to more than a billion and a half per day 31. 12. 2008 On the Finance Committee, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, for example, pointed out that the Bank of Slovenia has been constantly pointing out the high risks to the sustainability of public finances, and I quote: "and structural reforms are needed here, public finances reforms are needed, and I must say here that in the years until 2008, until the start of the crisis, when there were opportunities for the budget to remain in surplus and to create reserves, we did not create. In the view of the Bank of Slovenia, which it had already reported at the time, it is independent of which political option is in power, that we grew too quickly, because the finances that have led to the global economic crisis are also due to the fact that it has been credited too quickly and too. That is how I think if, in the future, Slovenia implements appropriate policies under any government, there will be no risk of sustainability of public finances." End of quote. These are the real themes. Let us call another extraordinary session, one way or another, we have more extraordinary meetings than regular meetings, not thanks to us. As for Ultra, it was explained that if you asked me, most of the questions were: how much credit he had, how much he was insured, how much he was paid back. We have an investigative commission in Parliament, as has already been said today. It has its powers and within them can come to an end. The Commission of Inquiry is the one dealing with political responsibility. The concept of political responsibility is broad and contains such social, ethical, moral and legal standards. And if the purpose of today's extraordinary meeting is another debate on some moral aspects of a minister in a government, then the motioners have missed the essence and space of such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister and others present! Allow me to begin by correcting some of the inaccuracies that have been expressed in the current presentations on unsecured loans approved in the interbank market, which is 42% according to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. These are short-term loans on the interbank market, which have no connection with what we are talking about today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no problem discussing anything in the National Assembly. We did not have this problem in the previous term. You will recall that in the previous term we discussed both the Slovenian steel industry and the management lending industry, because we share an opinion with you that the Bank of Slovenia did not play the role we expected it to play during that period, and we have already said that in the previous mandate and in this too. In fact, these limits were too wide, and these loans were therefore too large to be granted. However, there is no government, any government, but the Bank of Slovenia itself. Allow me to say a few words on this point about procedural complications that accompanied the convening of this meeting, which has not happened for the first time. In this mandate, we have seen similar manoeuvres by the President of the National Assembly several times. Some of the requests for hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly, tabled months ago by the Slovenian Democratic Party, are still unfulfilled, even though the Rules of Procedure set a 15-day deadline for calling and did not allow the President of the National Assembly any arbitration in this regard. Let us remember, for example, Wygel's affairs and his promises as then president of the Committee on Foreign Policy in Belgrade that the issue of so-called deleted and their compensations will be resolved, which then happened shortly. Mr Wigel is, of course, burdened with any responsibility as he was elected as a European Member. In some cases, the SDS, if the president has already convened, has limited the time for discussion, so that everyone, and only one of the members of the Group, could discuss it for only five minutes. For example, the appointment of Russian Ambassador Zawgajev, in whose designation the image of the current Slovenian authorities or its authorities was symbolically mirrored, where the meeting was closed to the public, although there were no reasons. Confidential closed sessions are also an appropriate way of manipulating the public, which is increasingly being used by the authorities, because the public cannot know and see what is true and what is not. That's the way it is in this case. At the time when the media discovered that Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Pahor's Government and President of Zares, had lied to the public about his assets prior to the national elections in the fall of 2008 and that he had been a significant owner in the Ultra Group through a collector in the Netherlands, a company engaged in business for a number of state-owned companies - the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Student Organisation of Slovenia - in the activities covered by Mr. Gregor Golobič, so at the time, a document had come to the public that showed that certain loans from the Ultra Group and its related companies were not secured at all by the NLB. Some are secured only partially or inadequately, in a way that is not available to ordinary mortals and citizens and businesses that do not have political bots in the highest authorities. At the time of the biggest credit crunch, when many companies failed to obtain loans in order to maintain production and jobs. And what happened? First, the charge that the SDS stand for everything and then, almost simultaneously, that the NLB document, which speaks of unsecured and inadequately secured Ultra loans, has been falsified. Mr Golobic's first claim that the SDS was behind everything was denied in the media by his client friend and minister in his government, Mr Matej Lahovnik, and pointed to the real background. Another claim is denied by a police investigation and an indictment against an unknown offender for the illegal alienation of a confidential document from the New Ljubljana Bank. It is also indirectly confirmed by the public statements made by NLB representatives on the adequacy or inadequacy of the collateralisation of these loans. The opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of this case, requested a hearing on the issues of granting unsecured or inadequately secured loans to state banks to the Commission for the supervision of public finances a good half-year ago. Since we have not received specific information on this, not by the State banks or by the Bank of Slovenia at the meeting, we have requested specific written replies. We have not received these, either, despite clear constitutional or legal provisions which stipulate that Banka Slovenije is responsible to this national assembly and is obliged to report to it in full. As no data were provided to the Commission for the supervision of public finances, the SDS proposed a call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly last November. We do not yet know how many such or similar cases, such as the Ultra Group, where, under the terms of the loan approval, there is clearly a predominant criterion for appropriate political ratings. However, that the Ultra Group is a high and appropriate political society, it is not only a list of its business with state companies and the Ljubljana Municipality - telecommunications area, urban card Urbana, e-mailing student diet - but also the human resources potential. Mr Golobič has also smoked in this company for some time, which now also covers the area of telecommunications with which the Ultra Group mainly deals, and Mr Janez Kopač, Director General of the Energy Directorate at the Ministry of Economy covering the field of energy, and many other former LDS high policies, now Res. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have calculated that, for these reasons too, we will be supported by the party, first of all by the party, which built its campaign on a new policy a year ago in the fight against corruption and clientelism, in our proposal to clear the suspicions of customerism in obtaining loans from state banks, in particular from NLB. Even more! In view of the fact that the president of this party was caught in his own political loop, we were counting on him to really propose a debate on this, especially because Dr. Pavel Gantar said that when he took office that we would save everything in the National Assembly, just by saying no. And because of the fact that there is nothing left of the new policy of Zareza other than the old politicians who were maimed during the 12-year period of the LDS rule between 1992 and 2004 and who, rather than in a year, covered the torn networks that they created at the time in the administration, banking and economy. The networked Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is the biggest obstacle to the break-in of Slovenia in economic and other areas. Of course, the opposite has happened with regard to this point. First, the interference of the applicants, which I have already mentioned, then we had to change our proposal until we were unrecognizable, delete the words Ultra and clienteleism, and then the members of the ruling coalition on the committee completed this proposal and went through manipulation even so far as to accept the supplement that relates directly to the Ultra group, of course, in such a way that the data we wanted to receive would never have been provided in the content that we have requested and expected. Therefore, our proposal would be null and void. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to a decision that sets a substantive decision at least roughly in the context of what we have drawn up in the first request. If the ruling coalition really wants these issues to be clarified, we hope that today it will support our amendments. If politics does not cut clienteleistic ties and give this clear signal from this city, regardless of who it concerns, then Slovenia will be caught for a long time in these harmful clienteleistic links, and many capable people who do not enjoy political support from the rulings will, unfortunately, have to look outside Slovenia for their opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Because in the presentation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, words were made at the expense of the President of the National Assembly, who are inaccuracies I am obliged to correct this. The first thing is, all requests for references to extraordinary meetings that met the conditions have been called upon. In addition to the legal explanations, the requirements for the convening of an extraordinary meeting must also apply to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. It is not possible to refer to meetings on topics not within the competence of the National Assembly, whether they are within the competence of one of the other branches of authority, legislative or judicial, or even fall within a sphere with which politics has nothing to do. All requests, which have been supplemented by a proposal to supplement the proposals for conclusions, have been made, including this one. I understand, however, that the material has obviously run out of serious debate and it is therefore good to discuss the President of the National Assembly, who is not on the agenda of this meeting today; and more than that, these actions show that we do not save words in the National Assembly. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished public! Members and Members of Parliament met today at the first extraordinary meeting. At the beginning of the year, we already have three demands for them by the opposition. Together with the regular session, we are expected to meet in four sessions in January, as if someone wanted to give the impression that there is an emergency situation in the country. And none of them are necessary. Why? We have already started working on the Golobič case in the investigative commission. With today's second topic of anti-crisis and structural measures, however, the Government has been working intensively for a month and we all know that it is not simple to have different perspectives that need to be considered, calculated, harmonised, and that they represent huge interventions into our system and into life. A SDS in Parliament acts as if time is an unlimited category. The situation is being created when Parliament's regular activity is already under threat, that the destruction of the reputation that arises when the public sees us during infertile debates and, above all, arguments, I am not speaking at all. In other words, Parliament is suffocating in the flood of demands for extraordinary meetings, justified solely by the naked interpretation that the opposition is allowed to do so by the rules of procedure, but the content is not the most important or only in the function of political interests. We are running out of time and deadlines for working bodies, we have been here all day, even nights, damage is coming, because other regular matters, including the session before us, have not been fully prepared. This is due to the tactics of exhaustion, when Members of the SDS usually repeat one after another several times the same, usually incorrect and misleading, accusations and allegations, much closer to their political wishes and goals than reality, because they are obviously convinced that in people "something will already be caught". Finally, an account for this inflation of extraordinary meetings, which is a means of maintaining a permanent state of affairs, is a constant pre-election campaign of SDS, paid by taxpayers. In spite of all this in the SDS, they are still drooling, even today, that we are not giving them enough opportunity to speak and perform. They also accuse others that we are talking about irrelevant matters, not the economic and financial crisis. It is strange that the SDS has imposed on us topics such as: inappropriate statements by former Ambassador Wygle, discussions on totalitarianism, erased, and the spring snake when the Ombudsman's report is being considered. Today's extraordinary meeting, dedicated in some way to the Bank of Slovenia, which, according to the proposaler, I quote, "hazared public finances," the Bank of Slovenia, "directly caused the crisis and endangered the entire democratic system," [[End of quote]] , because it does not provide unconstitutionally and illegally required data on specific credits to Ultra Vision Board. That's nonsense, too. The meeting is unnecessary and is in fact intended to continue the race against Gregor Golobic. It was used by the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings. The aim was to charge Golobič before being granted the status of an investigator on a commission with which he could be confronted and also explained. However, there is something special about this inflation of extraordinary meetings in parliamentary democracy. We have not seen before that one of the parties would use the Slovenian Parliament to the extreme for political accounting with one of the presidents of the parliamentary parties. Apparently, in SDS headquarters, it is estimated that Golobič is their main political competitor, who can prevent them from jumping to power in future elections, perhaps even in immediate emergencies. In doing so, they do not choose the means and have so far used all the possibilities offered by the opposition to control the functioning of the authority by the Rules of Procedure and much more. What was going on? At first, Golobič became the target of the Visionary Commission for the supervision of public finances on the basis of an anonymous document, a forgery that mysteriously came from the NLB. With the bombing charges that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has granted Ultra 21 million unsecured loans that it has provided in a corrupt way because it owns 10% of the company. And this document, this flattened pamphlet, is also the basis for today's session. Why? Because it contains information that credit was not secured, which is a lie. I repeat what is a lie and what is an untruth. That's why the document is a pamphlet. And this document, this flooring pamphlet, is the basis for what's going on here today. Why? And if we move on. This is the case, although on 14 December, at the request of the commission of inquiry led by SDS Member Petan to the National Assembly, he also copied it himself, which was forwarded by Nova Ljubljanska Banka and has also repeatedly informed the public what the truth is. And what is the truth? What's in this document? That the amount of loans, four loans in Ultra, is EUR 6 million. Secondly, by the end of 2009, 4.1 million of the six million euros had been recovered, which means that there are currently only a few more than 2 million claims. Thirdly, that loans are secured with coins, mortgages, business contracts, guarantees, real estates and so on, to a total value exceeding the value of the loans given. This is this document, this document, which was sent to the Commission of Inquiry at the request of Ultra NLB supplemented by information confirming my claims and confirming evidence of appropriate insurance at an appropriate level. This document is here, even in the National Assembly. However, all these facts are not relevant to the SDS. Continues with lies, half-truths, accusations and fraud. Moreover, at the Committee on Finance's meeting, the proponents tried to present and accuse, and to inspire the issue to the point of impeachment, so that such credits, which would not have had adequate insurance, but as I have demonstrated and demonstrated by the document, could have irreparable consequences for public finances and their stability. Let's take a look at some facts. The NLB has around €7.7 billion in the economy. The debt of Ultra is EUR 2.5 million at the moment, which is 0.03 of the total value. And that's supposed to put Slovenian finances at risk! And because of these funds, NLB is also expected to lack funds for other committees, for entrepreneurs applying for loans, as has been said today. In 2009, NLB granted loans to 6,500 legal persons worth over EUR 3 billion and 11,900 credits at the time of the credit crunch, once again, 11,900 loans were extended to EUR 6.6 billion. Today, we are talking about 6 million Ultra credits in Parliament, and for months and months it has been working on it, and the SDS wants to show this as a reason for the lack of funds in Slovenian banks, which makes it impossible for other entrepreneurs to credit. Such claims mean the ridicule of the National Assembly and the underestimation of common sense. It is no secret, however, that at the time of the Janša government, there were, through state banks, their, Janša’s supervisors, and with their blessing, hundreds of millions of euros granted for managers’ purchases of credit in 68 cases. Or should I mention what has already been said today because I am the loudest critic of this, Mr. Visjak? The 21 million-dollar loan granted to the Church Holding Zvon 2 by the state-owned Drava Power Plants, over which Viszak’s supervisors were staying, has not yet been repaid. What were the insurances there?Oh, my God! Was this loan secured?Oh, my God! - It says with some uninhabited lands on Brac, as we could read. But what helps us to point our finger at others, except perhaps to say that the loudest critics and prosecutors themselves have actually done what they want to do to others, and to pay the price for them, thank God, with the lost elections. What about Ultra?Oh, my God! It was a loan to a company with 240 employees, to finance current transactions and to finance operating assets, on the fact that they had 7.3 million euros in income in 2008. Ultra is not the tycoon company you want to prove to the public in the SDS all the time. This is a private company obtained without ownership, a modern, breakthrough company, which also employs a lot of doctors of science. In 2004-2009 only doctors received EUR 400,000 of subsidies and paid this country - with your observations to avoid paying taxes to Slovenia, which is a lie, because even if the company is established abroad, it pays taxes where it is established or registered - so this country was paid 15.5 million taxes and contributions. The overturned accusations and intentions of the SDS were infamously dropped at the board meeting. However, the speakers are embarrassed when the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Marko Kranjec, informed them, quote: "There are 42% of all approved loans without insurance in the Slovenian banking system." So in all these cases, we could talk about corruption, customerism. But he said that this is a common practice and it would be difficult to come from a point of view, these are his words that non-insurance is a sign of corruption. Once again, I am proving and showing a document clearly stating that the loans were secured at the appropriate levels of their value. He also clearly told them that Banka Slovenije did not, I quote, "in no case have the bank discovered the suspicion of corruption" which means that the purpose of today's meeting is to report to the National Assembly, as you stated in the decision, if it has revealed any suspicion, in fact irrelevant and waste of time. Moreover, the National Assembly is not the body responsible for reporting this. At the very least, I quote Dr. Kranjec once again, "We cannot express our views individually on individual cases." They cannot, they must not, because this is illegal and unconstitutional. However, I am sure that you are well aware of this by the Members of the SDS, but knowingly and maliciously, these facts and these marriage grounds are ignored and presented as a conscious arrogance and inappropriate attitude of the Bank of Slovenia towards Parliament and as intentional concealment also on their part because they would also like to protect Gregor Golobic. I'm sure the reason for the credit crunch isn't in Ultra's credits. This is just a vicious, more than half-year-long, SDS mystery, which is constantly repeated, and unfortunately, this is why he has been caught in the public eye most of the time. Representatives of Banka Slovenije pointed out a number of reasons for reducing the demand for credit and credit activity. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis also mentioned among the main ones that Slovenian companies are looking for loans abroad because they are cheaper there. However, the vice-governor, Dr. Andrej Rant, warned that this was also affected by a number of other uncertainties. And I quote what he said: "One of the uncertainties is also the political debate on individual cases, past the procedures and procedures provided for by the laws." So, with the continuous warming of such concrete, highly politicized and lying and pamphlet-based cases, the sense of security in legal persons in Slovenia decreases and, as a result, escapes to foreign banks. In doing so, the SDS forgets and does not care about the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian banks and the stability of the financial market. No, no, no. The goal is different. The goal is extraordinary meetings, the aim is to speak without documents, the aim is to speak without facts. This also confirms the evidence provided by the SDS for this meeting, for example, and is presented in the Reporter by published articles and comments with bombastic addresses and content, which would hardly be said to have been written professionally and in accordance with the journalistic golden rule that matters cited as facts need to be verified. Interesting. They have recently published new documents in the Reporter, which are completely identical to the documents that the Commission of Inquiry has as confidential material in the National Assembly and have been given by the Tax Administration, which would mean that documents may have been leaking from Parliament as well. But they're talking about the equity share, which is supposed to be 13%. But the document is incorrect because it is from the time of the registration of the said company and is unscrupulous. However, they are expected to acquire it in the Reporter, as they say, through research journalism in the Netherlands. We've been looking for him, too, and at this point with a date. On 7 January 2010 and 8 January 2010, this document is completely different and refers to 10% of the share. He did not submit such a document to the Reporter. What do you say to the conclusion? In Slovenian politics there is a known fact and practice that politicians should never, but must never admit a mistake. They must not admit to lying, deceiving that they might have made a mistake. We all know hundreds of such cases in recent years, proven lies. With documents and even with books of sublime deceptions, turning the blame for decisions against others, mistaking that they knew nothing, they were not informed. Dozens of politicians, unfortunately, resort to this pattern and live their political lives peacefully, as the eyes of the public and the media turn to a new affair and to another policy. And Gregor Golobič cut this situation off, and he did something different. It will be sad if the opinion prevails that Gregor Golobic's biggest and inexcusable error was that he was the only one who, after one of the media in the crowd of pre-election issues, was masked by the fact that he co-owned Ultra that he would be the only one who acknowledged and publicly apologized for this error. While many other politicians in the same newspaper failed to fill out this section on the same issue, unfortunately, no one has put this issue to the fore. In doing so, it must be said that he did not act unlawfully because he fulfilled all other legal obligations to the Kosovo Commission. He probably had no idea what the consequences of this action would be, and what a very high price he would pay for it. Everything that happens after admitting a mistake is a bad sign for the future of our political culture. It is a signal to all other politicians that errors, lies, guilt, errors must never be admitted, regardless of weight, regardless of scale, regardless of damage, with the Pigeon's weight very low. It is exclusively a moral - ethical dimension of the issue of misleading one of the newspapers or the public. Sadly, though, in the case of accusations, in throwing stones at others, in pointing fingers, they have the most to say and the loudest in the accusations are those who, in the past, have repeatedly lied, lied, deceived, and held the bag in places. That's no excuse for Dove's behavior. He paid his price and pays it again every day. Sadly, though, most people are willing to accept it and accept it as a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary, I was going to say he's not here. Representatives of the government, nice greeting! Today, the Bank of Slovenia is charged with reporting to the National Assembly, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, suspected corrupt financing of companies whose shareholdings are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at national level by commercial banks in majority state ownership. Regrettably, other authorities are responsible for the prosecution and assessment of corruption, but they have long failed to carry out their tasks. The tasks and supervision of the Bank of Slovenia shall be aimed at determining whether the Bank operates with risk management rules and with other rules and rules governing the provision of financial services. If the Bank of Slovenia were responsible for such tasks, we believe that something would already be discovered. That's no way to do anything. If you're wondering why not, you know, colleagues and colleagues, because we know exactly who the actors of this story are, because we already know what we're talking about today and who we're talking about. I'm not going to repeat who I'm talking about today at this point in the agenda. Let's do it in a row. Firstly, we know exactly who lies in this coalition and hides property from the eyes of the Slovenian public. He also publicly admitted that he was lying. It's not a sin to admit it, publicly admit it, but it's a failure of ethical values if you stay in power with lies. Secondly, we know exactly who co-owners of a high-tech company and at the same time the Minister for High Technology, who has millions of funds for this purpose. Dear colleagues and colleagues, remember the €180 million call for centres of excellence, one of the directors of the high research firm called out to Prime Minister Borut Pahor: "Pahor, if you are interested in technological development, then, for God's sake, cancel this call." Where did 180 million euros go? In three institutions in white Ljubljana. Only in three in Ljubljana itself. The funds should be made available to the majority of highly developed companies throughout Slovenia. It wasn't like that. Third time. We also know exactly which ministry was transferred by law to the area of electronic communications, which is by chance also the area of business interest in co-ownership - who or what? - a minister who was also transferred to him. Fourth time. We also know exactly who is setting up companies abroad, in tax havens, in order to avoid paying taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, we also know who, in the previous term and at the beginning of this, was sitting in an important position in the largest state-owned bank, i.e. those who obviously can provide unsecured or inadequately secured loans and who are paying millions of emoluments to managers to thank for their political action. By the way, one million Kramar means about 150 Slovenian annual minimum wages, i.e. at the annual level. One Kramarov million means almost 2000 Slovenian monthly minimum wages. Dear coalition Members, there is nothing against the law, you will probably all claim after each other. Maybe, maybe not. However, whether all of this is appropriate, responsible, moral and ethical, we ask in the Slovenian People's Party. Are these the new standards of action promised by the President of the Government, those new standards of that new policy or changes that you promised the presidents of coalition parties before the elections? Ladies and gentlemen, where is the Minister's announcement from 17.8.2008? I quote: "I expect economic growth, in particular in the second part of the mandate, to be very quick to allow this in my objective, without doubt, to double the minimum wage from the current 500 to 1000 euros." Ladies and gentlemen, where is Minister Karel Erjavac's announcement, the promise of 1,000 euros in pension? In the following words, I quote, "Slovenia creates enough," and put it on, "it's only about the problem of division." Mr Minister, you've been in the government for a year now, so how you share and where this money goes, because you were also in the previous government and you knew that enough is being created, so it's not being shared properly. Well, last time. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the action based on the statement made by the President of the Slovenian Government of Borut Pahor? Prime Minister Borut Pahor said in a press statement 3.6.2009 [[Quote]] That "he gave Golobic until the end of next week's time to consider an error regarding the denial of ownership in Ultra." In addition to the law enforcement authorities, the Prime Minister of the Government did not perform his work, which should remove from his team those who knowingly lied to the Slovenian people, thereby taking away the credibility of the Government and the President of the Government from the very beginning. We see, hear and feel that this initial error in this good year has been avenged on many occasions by the President of the Government, as he has to forgive his ministers more and more mistakes. In the Slovenian People's Party, we wonder how long these actions will be forgiven by Slovenians and Slovenians, especially the 100,000 who lost their jobs last year. It is actually funny to talk about the Slovenian economy today, and some of you advocate "poor" Ultra to let it work in peace, and ask that it be left out of the political accounts of opponents. You are the one who made the affair of Ultra and New Ljubljana Bank because of the mutual political games, accounting and revenge actually cooked, now ask the opposition to leave it alone, for God's sake. Respectable members of the coalition! In the Slovenian People's Party we ask you and call for you to stop clearing your mutual resentments through the Slovenian economy, Slovenian banks or, in other words, on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers. We suggest that you focus on real Slovenian problems, which unfortunately lead our adulterous country into growing economic and social problems. But you're obviously assessing that we're still doing too well, in your opinion, to be prepared to take a bite into the real problems. But know that such opinions are getting fewer and fewer, those Slovenes and Slovenians who are forced to deal with real problems every day because they no longer live a life worth living. But for you who live somewhere on Mars, obviously everything is clear and unfortunately everything is allowed. Consider and think it would be wise to check your performance as soon as possible in the polls and voters before you create a new 100,000 citizens and citizens who will lose their jobs and human dignity. Be careful, as the old Slovenian proverb says: "Whoever speaks highly over the years, I leave it to you." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Today's debate on the proposal for Banka Slovenije to report on allegedly unsecured loans is likely to be extensive. However, our DeSUS Group has drawn up a clear and short position, with regard to this proposal tabled by the Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, which I will present below. In addition, I can also point out that the DeSUS Members do not even intend to discuss this in a broad way and to delimit it, since the tasks and powers of the Bank of Slovenia are clearly prescribed. In addition, for the purposes of resolving doubts about the possible dispute or corruption in the financing of companies or in the granting of credits, another authority and not Banka Slovenije is competent. Let me say that Banka Slovenije is already an independent and independent body in charge of the monetary area in the Republic of Slovenia after the Constitution. However, this is certainly not the case for a body in which jurisdiction includes judgment or even decision on the potential corruption of individual acts. The latter shall be the responsibility of the other authorities. On the basis of the reports that the Bank is obliged to provide both to the public and to the National Assembly, we can conclude that the Bank of Slovenia is scrutinising the stability of both individual lending institutions and the stability of the financial system. In spite of the proposed decision, the Bank of Slovenia should report on the suspected corrupt financing of companies co-owned by public officials, in the background of the loan granted by Nova Ljubljanska Banka to Ultra, it is clear to everyone that the whole explanation of the proposal relates only to the following. Thus, in essence, the conclusion itself is completely in conflict with the reasoning itself. A new decision has been drawn up on the working body, which will be decided today, namely that the Bank of Slovenia should be asked to initiate supervisory checks and take appropriate measures to ensure security and liquidity in the case of credits that companies cannot pay or are not adequately secured. Members of the DeSUS note that the Bank of Slovenia is essentially committed to doing so today on the basis of legislation governing its operation. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed decision adopted at the working body meeting and will thus also support the call to the Bank of Slovenia for such action. However, as the Governor of the Bank has already said, this will practically not mean any additional work obligations for the Bank of Slovenia, as it is the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to act in this direction, in particular as regards supervision, already today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! The reason for the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was set out in the original proposal for a decision which I will not read. The proposal for a decision shall be legitimate. Where there's smoke, there's fire, where there's smoke, there can be fire, and usually firefighters go there. That's the way it is in this case. Not only is the proposal legitimate, evident, also legal or legal, which can be read in the last paragraph of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states: The proposal for a decision of the National Assembly relating to the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia to report to the National Assembly on the proposed text falls within the competence of the National Assembly. So with regard to the doubts we have heard, we may also be discussing what is true, what is not: it is legal, and it is legitimate. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will say that at first we said, "Well, there are some papers again." But we have become attentive and I will prove to you that we are right when we support this decision and when we support the establishment of a concrete credit, concrete collateralisation of this loan, because this will reveal a number of other specific loans and other concrete collateral. According to the information now known, the credit should not have any first-class, not adequate, or adequate insurance. Therefore, a procedure was initiated in the Public Finance Supervisory Board. This one demanded evidence that she didn't get according to the behavior we had. Everything has become silent for a long time, it has become ignoring, and let me remind you that today's point is also due to the lack of information and data concealment, not only in this area, but elsewhere. Of course, we must admit this to a coalition, a skilled strategy and it is through a debate on the working body of the mother and will probably try to shift the substance of the problem through this debate today in this Chamber to the fact that the opposition is attacking the Bank of Slovenia. And the speech will only be about the poor Bank of Slovenia, which has the right of control, but quite different. In fact, we have thrown sand into people's eyes and today the problem is Banka Slovenije, not what is actually a problem: a problem of poor insurance, an alleged or non-insured credit. 6.6 million euros, according to known data, is expected to be credited. According to known data on the table, it is expected to be secured with a real estate value of EUR 100,000. You have to secure six units of credit with 0.1 units. Let us address the matter of the fact that 42% of unsecured loans, given the information that was heard from the Governor of the National Bank, are not necessarily always an unsecured credit risk. Now, let's turn to the ordinary person who, if he gets a loan, a household loan of EUR 40,000, not EUR 6 million, has to secure a loan with an insurance company, has to set up a real estate, he has to make a life insurance policy, and he has to bring in a marriage in addition to a paid insurance, every ordinary citizen, and I don't even know one who doesn't have a loan, but not after having got six units for 0.1, vice versa, one unit of credit was given to two units of credit to the ordinary person for the household loan. Is this equality before the law that arises from Article 14 of the Constitution? Doesn't anyone have the right to ask where equality is here, where justice is here? In the National Assembly at the meeting of the mother body, we heard cynicism and humiliation without incident, as expressed by the representative of the Zares Group, who said that we are doing what we are doing today because of the lousy EUR 6 million. Cynicism, humiliating people without chance! If it's 6 million lousy, why doesn't the government just give you 600 euros for a minimum wage if it's 6 million euros lousy? I'm ashamed. [[....]] [[ad from the bench.]] Yeah, because of you, you're sitting with us, by the way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u21	Please, peace in the hall, let the speaker express his beliefs, then you will be able to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u22	These are the beliefs of the Slovenian National Party which have been proven. As far as the bank's concerned. The governor said nicely: "Don't look for data with us, look for them with the New Ljubljana Bank." And yet again, the case of the Zares Group of Ambassadors. The claim on the parent’s working body that the document with which the applicant is at his disposal is a forgery and an anonymity. I would like to know why the bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, launched an internal investigation and, according to the data, was also to file a criminal complaint against an unknown offender that it had alienated the document from the bank. Is this what the bank is supposed to do because of the forgery and the anonymity? You know, because you might have read Milkychinski, and you think Slovenians are just Butters, but no, they're Kicks. I'm ashamed that we have people so stupid that we tell them that the paper is fake and anonymous, and in the same breath, the same bank decides to chase whoever took the paper out. Right, to order him if he took it illegally and disclosed business information, he proved that the paper was probably already accurate. The Slovenian national party is confident, and not just us, you can ask recognised economists, including Dr. Mojmir Dark, that the recapitalisation of the bank is necessary due to the payment of EUR 700 million of bad loans not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere. So you don't think and see, these are the words of Dr. Dark, Doctor of Economic Sciences. And that's true. In the Slovenian National Party, we want things to get to the bottom. This isn't about the person we're dealing with. This is about honesty and the same attitude towards those who get, if they get only 5,000 credits, they have to pay 15,000 euros in insurance and others don't give anything for it. And if they do not repay him, even as many cannot repay him today, they cannot answer him because they are not immune and have nothing to take away from them. There's something rotten about the country of Kranjska! There's something rotten in the Shentflorian Valley! I hope we can get those rotten fruit out of the way so that the rest of them can mature. We will support the decision in its original form, which is legal and legitimate, I stress legal in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. Mr Golobič, representative of the Government, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow us to begin this debate, to intonation, to move from quoting Butals and Fighters and their competing wars to a more modern area. An interview with a young scientist who had succeeded abroad was published in the Saturday Annex shortly. You can read it in full, I'd just start with a short quote. Finally, he notes: "It is interesting to me that we are still not used to positive competition in Slovenia, and we do not realize that successful individuals are useful for the whole society, because being better does not mean that you push others down or gain at the expense of another. This is a very Slovenian view, which is also encouraged by the media. If I follow them from abroad, I notice that much more. You get the impression that there's an emergency situation in the country, everything goes to the knife, everything goes to the end, no normality. In 2004, in the National Assembly, a party of SDS, with some other opposition parties who are not currently in the National Assembly, set up an extraordinary meeting on the subject "The Ultra Company". Six years is this, and this topic has somehow remained present in any way in the debates as a substitute for relevant discussions by this party all this time. All this time alone, not then, I was no longer active in politics, not later, I had no opportunity at the place where this was said, however to perform, to answer, to argue. Even before the summer of last year, an investigative committee was set up with a very similar argument, even in many ways summarizing the 2004 claim, despite my request, the commission of inquiry led by a SDS member did not give me the status of the investigator in order to respond in any way, face or appear in the context of the accusations being made and repeated. I'm here today as a representative of the government. This was the only way that I could get to the word, because the purpose of the applicants was to reopen another in a series of debates in which I could not perform, in which I could dissect the frog that they had killed and which was thus protected and examined until the visit. Well, it's not entirely right that I'm representing the government, because I'm going to talk about things that aren't actually about governments. However, for the quality of the debate to be heard, it may be useful to draw attention to a few things. I understand this as a kind gift, and I am especially grateful for it today that I have the opportunity to perform here. On 28 May last year, the topic, which now dominates in some way the main debate on the Bank of Slovenia and its responsibility for the global financial crisis and the role of individual credits in this crisis, was the light of the world. In the evening broadcast of national television The echoes were bombastic, without obtaining any opinion from the other party, published news, revealing that the Ultra Group was supposed to have €21 million unsecured loans from the New Ljubljana Bank. This mantra continues to persist, despite all the facts that have come in the course of the day and despite the fact that the authors of this broadcast have also experienced a disrepute sentence at the Honorable Judgement of the Society of Journalists in Slovenia. Last year, as he initially pointed out on behalf of the applicants, former Minister Andrej Vizjak, took place largely in the first half of the debate on so-called Taiwanese loans, their reprogramming, etc. There is no secret that the Party of Zares, and I myself, together with Minister Lahovnik, have been the loudest and most persistent in that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as owner on behalf of the State, the owner of the majority stake in the New Ljubljana Bank, must ensure that the additional resources of taxpayers, the guarantees proposed by the Government in the context of the anti-crisis measures, and that the National Assembly should no longer engage in the reprogramming of loans which companies could not repay during the Government of Viszak and with the help of that Government. Those loans were multi-s hundred million and were poorly secured. The government has complied with this requirement, this expectation of the party Zares has been fulfilled. The President of the Government has taken this position and this movement has taken place, which has been important and has contributed in this respect to the transparency of public finances and also to the fact that the banking sector has become more aware of the social responsibilities it has had, and I can therefore agree with a number of debaters, not only with us, but also with the world at the time of the booming explosion, the expansion, the vote for the rapid profits completely forgotten or put in the drawer. It has already been mentioned that the New Ljubljana Bank was to be headed by the President of the administration at the time, who was supposed to be opposed by the party really because she wanted this place. This claim is not true. The party Zares protested that, despite the Government's explicit request, the Supervisory Board, which was appointed by the previous government, had appointed the President of the Administration directly. We have insisted only on the need to make a transparent appointment in this and other cases, to have the opportunity to apply for different candidates, with different references and that it is the best choice. This did not happen, we protested against it and this was the only comment in this matter, in no way related, and I have repeatedly made this public, to a specific person. Whatever. After at some point under the new administration, Nova Ljubljanska Banka reprogrammed a multi-seven million-million-dollar loan to the Laško Group's successors, the Government adopted the conclusions I had previously mentioned. Shortly thereafter, former Minister Vizjak openly revealed this, and the former President of the Board made public a document that Mr Andrej Vizjak had climbed up from and from which he was still so taken. He commissioned the relevant services of the New Ljubljana Bank to draw up a list of loans held by several companies in the New Ljubljana Bank. Among them was Svea Zagorje, because he was wrong about spelling or replaced the names of individual companies. Well, the services have prepared this document, forwarded to the Head of Competent Services, this document, as the internal investigation has shown, has slightly changed it, forwarded it to the former President of the Management Board of Nova Ljubljanska Bank Drasko Veselinovic, who was re-recorded, changed it, and then found himself in the hands of the "discoverer" of Mr Andrej Visjak. The document of the professional services of the New Ljubljana Bank has been amended several times. This document clearly shows the exact figures for individual companies when talking about the amount of loans. The Ultra Group had at the time around €5.9 million in loans opened at the New Ljubljana Bank, some long-term, some short-term, which they also returned in accordance with the deadlines. In this document, a number of zeros appear in the insurance column. To Mr. Vissiak, his eyes were lit when he saw this, and he was eager to send some messages to his friends from Brežice, where he boasted: "Now I have them! They're showing zeros. Bingo!" And today he thinks he's hit by a pitch. Well, the question of why, which was repeatedly raised, why Nova Ljubljanska Banka initiated an internal investigation and also filed a criminal complaint against an unknown offender - and the report on this has been given by the National Assembly's investigative commission - as previously explained by Member Barovič with butal parables, is very simple: because the person who forwarded this document from the New Ljubljana Bank to Mr Viszak, with or without his assistance, revealed the bank's business secrets at the point of the amount of loans and the fact that the loans are there at all, and falsified it at the point of insurance. This is understandable to everyone, the Thumps and the Butchers; I don't know where any dilemma is. And the investigation, thank God, will proceed and reveal all the facts. When Mr Vizjak received this document, he forwarded it to the anonymous production unit of the SDS party, which you know was one of the most developed production units and was very active in the past as well as in the mandate of the government. I don't know whether you still remember many records of how the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, who was there for a while, and also later from the cabinet of the Prime Minister, closely monitored what was happening there during Mr Matei's ministry, knows that the type of investigations conducted by the interior ministry or the police at that time were based on anonymities. That was the main drive. Many of them carry the same fingerprints. The results of these investigations - which I can also talk about below - have also been barren and have indicated the political motivation for writing such documents. This anonymity, of course, appeared only a day later, on May 29th last year, when the contribution of journalist Hlebš was published in Odessa the previous night under the auspices of Mrs Rosvita Pesek. An exclusive opportunity that has been used by national television and has also brought this television into a series of actions that have followed and are taking place today. Mrs Rosvita Pesek apologized to me a few days later for what had happened to me, as she had written, and said that she had tried, when she saw where the contribution was going, to prevent me from being bombastic, but that she could no longer do that. She told someone else that the journalist Hlebš was not the author of that contribution at all, but that he had practically received it late in the afternoon, Thursday evening was this show of echoes, I was at a government meeting that day, at a press conference after the government meeting at half past four p.m. there was no question for me on this subject. At seven o'clock in the evening, a few minutes earlier, journalist Hlebš was looking for me with questions without looking for me to record without giving me a question, and I was at a 90-year-old medical school in Ljubljana in Cankarjev dom, and he quickly published the exclusivity across the street without any verification of the indications he received, he himself knows from whom. They didn't give me any answers in the next few days. As I mentioned earlier, the honorable verdict sanctioned this, and there was a claim that the Ultra Group received 21 million unsecured loans. The facts were already presented here today that these loans were 5.9 million at that time and that the total amount of insurance exceeded that value. Today, when these loans, as you have heard before, are slightly over EUR 2 million, about EUR 2 million and a half, the November-month data, also transmitted to the Commission of Inquiry, this insurance is three times the value of these loans. None of these loans have been reprogrammed; none of these loans have been delayed, and the New Ljubljana Bank has obviously done a good job of borrowing them, as all banks that we know are not humanitarian institutions have earned. Neither were these loans granted under any specific procedure. Finally, this is demonstrated by their nature, their security, the requirements to which Ultra was subject. The question raised today is whether the NLB to Ultra’s credit deposits had different criteria than or were applicable to other companies. She had sharper criteria, much sharper criteria. And all the facts prove it. No exceptions to the procedure, no exceptions within the internal rules that they may or may not have. This company did not receive them. And also in this sense, this company shares fate when it comes to loans, opportunities to acquire loans, shares the fate of other high-tech Slovenian companies with the same problems. In these weeks, I am consulting with developers in the Slovenian economy throughout Slovenia, in cooperation with regional, economic chambers, last year I made the first round, I promised to come around again after a year to see if we were able to change anything or not. And they're telling me the same thing. They tell me that they have problems because high-tech companies do not have real estate, they do not have shares that are for banks, not just for us, so to speak, the only relevant insurance. Bookkeeping is a category we do not know in Slovenia. Germany has taken steps here. Patents, intellectual property for banks has no value in the case of Ultra and in the case of many other Slovenian high-tech companies. This is a topic for the government, it is a topic for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly if we want our economy with higher added value to be able to create better jobs and provide higher wages. Since, of course, the banks have named shares and real estate as the only relevant insurance asset and since the recession inevitably meant an enormous valuation of these items, there is a reason for the difficulties faced by a number of banks. The reason why they have to significantly increase reservations, since the value of real estates, the value of shares has fallen dramatically at this time. With Ultra's loans, this bank had no problems. As I mentioned, all repayments within a period of time, with interest, without reprogramming, with insurance exceeding the value of the loans granted. These were awarded according to the procedures of each mortal, as Mr Cernač likes to say, or any small person referred to by Mr Barovic. Ultra is not among the 42% of companies that were granted non-insured loans in the previous year. Mr. Chernač was here earlier deceiving the National Assembly when he said that Governor Rant was here referring to interbank loans. That's not true. Look at the magnetogram, he talked about loans to companies in Slovenia. While he was saying that it is also common in international financial markets for banks to borrow billions of dollars without insurance. Why did NLB not disclose all the data, despite the commitment it had already received from Ultra on 29 May, and why it did not disclose them until after the new administration came forward? Is that a difficult question? It's very simple. Perhaps the previous president of the administration, who falsified the document, forwarded it to Mr Visiak, perhaps from the motive of revenge that Mr Vizjak had previously spoken of, I do not know. I know what motives Mr Vizjak and the SDS party have, and last but not least, they have spread across the National Assembly and throughout their media exhibitions since 2004. The fact is that she certainly had no interest in revealing her own machinations until the arrival of the new administration. This one's been transmitting all the data. This information is available in the National Assembly at the Commission of Inquiry and the Commission of Inquiry will be able to receive all the answers to the questions it is interested in. The motive of Mr Visionak and the SDS parties is to a large extent transparent, I have already mentioned. The client really and I have personally been a thorn in their heel for a long time, many years. We consider this and consider it a credit to me, as a good job for the Slovenian nation, that I was able to prevent any SDS party plan, especially the plans it intended to implement if I received another mandate. On the other hand, they also want to divert attention from this work, which is more public every day, which goes into hundreds and billions of euros in damage and has resulted in the kneeling of the most powerful Slovenian companies. Look who were the supervisors and members of the board of directors of these companies. Look at their balance sheet in 2004 and see what their balance sheet was like in 2008. What are the facts about Ultra that nobody cares about? I took part in it in 2003, before the national elections for more than a year. At the time, there were 100 employees. I was 99 myself. She was in the process of completing the development of her products. Ultra is one of those Slovenian companies that develops final products based on their own knowledge. Perhaps this motivated Mr Visionak 12 years ago that he was also looking for a job at Ultra and, unfortunately, he was rejected because such a profile was completely serious at the time, they did not need it. His specialization was not the one that was compatible with Ultra's plans. I'm afraid it might be for the best. But, however, the development of these products and anyone who knows something about high-tech companies, about the development costs involved, is clear that these are extremely high, I will say something further, and that they can never be recovered on the Slovenian market, because it is simply too small because its mass is too small, the volume of business on the Slovenian market for no high-tech company is large enough to recover the costs of its development. At that time, the company focused on the only alternative, which is on international markets and in doing so received an unwelcome but indirect but unequivocal acceleration by the extraordinary meeting in 2004, when it was clearly reported that there was nothing to look for in Slovenia that policy here is completely interested in completely other topics such as knowledge, development and export of this knowledge. In 2005, Mr. Vizjak was able to commend the Japanese representatives with this at the time of the Minister, the company made one major breakthrough of high-tech companies in Slovenia along with the Japanese telecommunications giant, whose traffic exceeds the multiple traffic of the largest Slovenian companies, established an enterprise for the global marketing of Ultra's product. Ultra invested technology together with a Japanese company and a Japanese company. That is why the owner of Ultra Miloš Urbanija was then declared an entrepreneur in Slovenia, by colleagues, of the years in the past, when the President of the Government also participated with pleasure in this award. [[That year he had other obligations]] As well as the then Minister for Development, Jože P. Damian, because it was an event in the late afternoon. From 2004 to 2009, Ultra generated EUR 46 million in revenue, with this period of systematic, planned impossibility to acquire any business on the domestic market. The government of Janez Janša paid special attention to this [[I can also document this further.]] . At the same time, the same government carried out audits in all possible companies to prove any of the 2004 charges. In any event, none of the charges, all the claims, and the high cost of ordering these audits were confirmed. Therefore, during this period, €46 million of revenue was paid and €15.5 million of taxes and contributions were paid to Slovenia. The number of employees has increased to 240. None of the owners paid a single euro of profits during the entire period of existence of this company. The salaries of employees are well below the average in the business in Slovenia. The tax review, which was launched in these companies on the basis of the same quality documents from the famous publications of the SDS party, will only confirm this; thank God it will be done or has already been done in the main work. Ultrina companies operating abroad finance development in Slovenia. Money does not go in the direction of Slovenia-foreign, because it has no place to be in Slovenia, but foreign-Slovenia. During this period Ultrina companies invested 12 million euros abroad in Slovenia, financed the development of the company in Maribor, Zagorje and Ljubljana, which together with universities, together with young people with knowledge, develop these products. Why can't SDS and some other opposition parties accept this? Why can't they believe these facts? The answer is simple: Because of their self - determination, they reason on others. How they understand entrepreneurship, how they value knowledge, how they see the country's priorities, this has been demonstrated in the last term. In one word, this vision is called the "acceptance" of Slovenian Sanader. It has been an honor for me to be employed in Ultra, to participate in this effort, which has not yet produced any fruit, except that it continues under difficult conditions because the recession does not spare anyone. That's why I'm taking this chase without a hitch. The truth is on my side. That's my peace, and that's your nervousness. And let me therefore again, here things need to be repeated repeatedly that the quote of a young scientist, whom I have heard recently and who has so simply told some cruel truth about the fundamental question of the possibility of Slovenia becoming a truly successful country, has hit so well: "Therefore it is interesting to me that we are not yet accustomed to positive competition in Slovenia and we are not aware that successful individuals are useful for the whole society, because being better does not mean that others are pushed down or that you are winning at the expense of another. This is a very Slovenian view, which is also encouraged by the media. If I follow them from abroad, I see that there are extraordinary circumstances in the country, that everything goes to the knife, that it is all sharpened to the end, that there is no normality anywhere." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak asked for the floor as the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, Minister Gregor Golobič has also come to some of the other content that this Parliament has discussed extensively about the so-called tycoon loans in the wake of this anonymity. There were many extraordinary meetings and meetings of the National Assembly before the 2008 elections. And there were a lot of conclusions about that. But something is clear to everyone. Where do these tycoons come from and these loans to these people? Where, who are they, from which political backgrounds comes Mr. Schrot? From what political backgrounds does Mr. Bavcar come? From what political background does Mr Petan and similar people who have been the subject of debate and political condemnation? Are these the people who are close to the SDS, or have they ever had any Slovenian Democratic Party membership card? All these things need to be followed by money, where they go and where they go. Then we know who the beneficiaries are. I will not repeat that Mr Šrot was a member of the SD, I will not repeat which party Igor Bavčar was a member and whose member is still Bojan Petan and others. When you talk about these tycoons, you probably gave them up for political populism, put them on a pranger somewhere, and now you're pointing your finger at us. It's also unfair to those people you're treating like this. Who was at the head of the key regulatory institution, namely the Slovenian banks or the Bank of Slovenia, when the most Taiwanese loans were granted, or the regulator and the control that should be most concerned that the exposure is not increased? Who? Mr. Gaspari, Governor of the then Bank of Slovenia, current minister. And to speak and speak here for the previous government, when, in particular, people near LDS were sitting at the head of Nova Ljubljanska Bank, with Mr Kramar at the head, it is indeed a first-class move. Mr Golobič, I ask you, and I call on you to disclose in the interest of the public and the truth here today the collateral of the loans that Ultra has up to, in very detail, each loan separately, to what extent it is insured and with what instrument. Then you will be able to cast aside the suspicion that appears in public and, of course, in politics. But when you say that most of the credits are bonded, you said that today, and I ask you, not you, rhetorically more or less, what kind of insurance is this today when you know the value and weight of the stockholder in the business of banks to business systems. So let's get this information out of the way. Your company has untied your silence. Disclosure and tell us what properties it's secured with and we'll go look at them. Do they hold any indication of the value of these properties and whether the insurance rates are high enough? We are interested in this House. Why are we so interested in that? Because we are also interested in other things related to the New Ljubljana Bank when it rapes us, for example, with recapitalisation, it needs 250 million, and we should not be interested in why. We must not be interested in the specific business of that bank. We must be interested in the fact that they want 250 million and some other number related to recapitalisation. Dear Mr Golobič, I have papers here to prove you're lying here today. You said earlier that Ultra did not receive a reprogram of loans. I have here the document of the New Ljubljana Bank to approve the amendment of the long-term loan of Ultra, 1.2 million euros secured by the tennis hall in Zagorje. I have another approval, this is March last year, we still have the approval of a loan to change a long-term loan, some kind of revolving, longevity, all secured with a sports hall in Zagorje, with the first reprogram heavier than the value, that is to say, credits greater than the value of a sports hall according to the valuation record. In short, these are the bank's files. How they got out is, of course, another question, but the most funny thing is to say that I, Andrej Vizjak, had this influence and this power that I had ordered the bank staff to do what to do, which data to send out, and even if I understand correctly, you told me that we had ordered them to "falsify" this data. Something like that and actually some kind of recognition for me that I have such a power that I don't really have. If that's what you mean, you're wrong and flattering me. You think I have some power I don't actually have. I also, by the way, rented a loan with the New Ljubljana Bank in 2007, I insured it very strongly, there was no "good will" at the time, I heavily insured it, I am currently paying it back, but I had to secure it strongly. Talking about 42% of the loans being unsecured is, of course, ridiculous. To talk about how all is well for these insurance in Ultra would, of course, be the most convincing thing to do immediately, even at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. Why? Why, if this is true, did the New Ljubljana Bank not immediately deny these allegations? Why didn't she come to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission with these papers? Because it was probably in her best interest. That was in her best interest. For they attack her honor and reputation. And one more thing. In one of these "longevances" of credit reprograms you wrote down or wrote that the reason for the reprogram is this, that a media and political race is being waged against this company and that it cannot pay back and need a reprogram. It's written in there. That's in 2009. In 2009 Excuse me, well, 2009, I'll tell you exactly the dates, which was this document of March and autumn, this is called October 2009. I don't know. You lied to the public once when you said you didn't have that share. I'm not talking to the public, you must have told the Kosovo Commission, probably, I can't check it out, too, otherwise. But you're public. What guarantee is there that you are telling the truth to the public today?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Minister Golobic, let me say that, as has been the case so far, I will leave the debate as any of the Members and Members of Parliament will have, but at the same time I say that from the outset we are discussing outside the proposed agenda item, which was intended to submit a proposal to the Bank of Slovenia to report on certain loans that might have suspected corrupt financing for companies. In short. Today we are talking about the content that Banka Slovenije is expected to report. But I don't have any hope of turning anyone away from saying what he's up to, so let me just make this point. Minister Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u28	Mrs Zalokar has previously shown you the information she has obtained about these secured loans and has given them to you. Two credits were received during the time at which you "referred", by Ultra at the time of the so-called credit crunch. Two loans; one in the amount of EUR 990 000, this was secured by real estate, on the basis of a valuation of a sworn valuer, following an order of NLB valued at EUR 1 million 890 000, with a write-off of the claim and a write-off of the loan. So, the practically double value of the loan was secured without your famous menus. This first loan was granted on 8 December 2008 and the current situation is only EUR 440 000, and is virtually fully refunded. It's a short-term loan. And the second loan was given on 7 August 2009 at EUR 540 000, and the short-term loan was also given. The current situation is EUR 405,000, secured by the withdrawal of claims in the amount of other claims, not the same. A million 600 thousand 20 euros, in addition to everything else mentioned. So, three times. He believes that this is more insurance than someone who has given you a bull for a pre-election party and that you have not secured it like your bank loans, I also hire them, loans, personally at the bank and believe that I am paying them off regularly, and that they are secured no less than yours. So this screaming of yours can't change the fact that you're manipulating. You have facts in front of you, and I never claimed that you ordered the bank to change anything. No, no, no. I said you were grateful for what they served you. It is understandable why the same people who served you with their motives, which coincided with your desire to discredit me personally and Zares, and, as usual, you do not care what this means for an economic society, for hundreds of unemployed, etc., which, at least as the Minister of Economy, you should appreciate that someone in this country is trying to pay their wages regularly, etc., pays taxes. You grabbed what you got, and it is clear that those who served you didn't have an immediate interest in showing you their own work, but you know that the whole action was timed for a bad week before the European elections. That's why it was in such a hurry, and all it had to do was bridge it. Now that the new board is there, the investigative commission has got all the data, will examine it, will judge it, the experts will do it. I am not sure that you are the most qualified to assess loans and their collateral, for which there are competent institutions. The Bank of Slovenia, too. I would be the first to be interested in assessing these loans by Governor Kranjec and Banka Slovenije. He turned it down. Not because I want to protect anyone in this story, but because he knows what is the responsibility and responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. That's what he told me. And perform it, control, and act when they detect irregularities. In these cases they are not. At this time, I believe that these one - year or eight - month - long pursuits of this last episode had sufficient reason to learn about it and, I suppose, to act if any of your claims proved to be true.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will also try to follow most of my debate with money, and with public money, on the path of suspicions of corruption and customerism. Allow me, however, to start by giving my opinion on such and similar extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, which is still under way today. Today, a few more than a year, it is ironic when members of the former government and the former coalition try to obtain information and data for the time they led and managed this country alone. And in fact, for this reason, it is unconvincing to say that they knew nothing at the time and that there was nothing they could have done to prevent certain anomalies and illegalities from happening at that time. Let it be corruption, let it be customerism, let it be nepotism, the abuse of important state and public political functions, and more. In short, this government is guilty that the previous government, in its mandate, did nothing and did nothing in this area, and things need to be regulated today during this government. Dearly beloved, more or less, most of you are known or know that the kitchen is dirty, yet the most expensive, most necessary and most damaging place in every house. And an extraordinary meeting for an extraordinary session, an urgent meeting at an emergency session is typical attempts in this last year to create a similar state or similar kitchen in Slovenian politics, where the National Assembly would be this dirty political kitchen. I must therefore say first of all that I am not surprised that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is not sufficiently investigative by the Commission dealing with this and similar matters, that a number of questions have been raised on this subject, that the word Ultra in connection with the name or Minister of Higher Education of the Pigeon is a trademark and a programming red thread of most content in dozens of SDS Members' debates, irrespective of the agenda item. Let it be a meeting of the National Assembly, whether it be a meeting of the Committee or a meeting of the Commission. Either we're discussing same-sex weddings, or we're talking about sending ex-soldiers, our soldiers on a mission, there's always this red thread, this syntagma Golobič - Ultra. You could say that in the SDS you are already tired of repeating one and the same sentences, assessments, value judgements, regardless of what the discussion is about, from the composition of the previous term. However, if I already have this opportunity and that this extraordinary meeting, as you yourself have written down, is taking place, once we have identified the corrupt financing of companies and clientele relations, I will take this opportunity to back up some of the cases that are more or less well-known in the public eye, but there are no epilogues. First, I'll start with the Patri dish. However, it is no longer necessary to assume that this project of public money spending has not been fully transparent, as it is already clear from the now well-known claims and recognitions of some actors that it has been an indirect commission, a data commission and also the suspicions of bribery, and that the purchase has involved people who have nothing to look for in the defence department and are often located and looking for something in the premises of the largest opposition SDS party. So, in this case it is not only a poor insurance of the loans and loans hired, but a cash flow of the taxpayer's money, that is to say, a worse act than hiring not sufficiently secured or not secured loans. We know when this purchase took place and who has the greatest responsibility for it. Just questioning would not be too much on the part of those who proposed today's meeting on corruption, customerism, loans and so on. Let's move on. Borrowing a public enterprise, such as a Drava power plant, which is not a bank, to a private investor such as Zvon 1, not only 6 million, but 21 million, which has not been returned to date and according to public information, is worth EUR 2.5 million in real estate insurance. Question alone would not be too much on the part of those who proposed today's meeting on corruption and clientism, which were watching over energy and public finances at the time the loan was given. Let's move on. It would be good to hear how large amounts of money have been secured that have been diverted from state-owned enterprises such as Luka Koper, such as Intereuropa, and so on over the past four years. Tens of thousands, hundreds of millions of euros have gone public with questionable investments, business contracts, research, analysis and another 100 million, and 140 million, again more than 100 million and so on. Here, too, only interrogation would be desirable, as the people of the SDS staff mile were in the leading cities in these companies. Let's move on. It would be very interesting to clarify the sale of SIJ, the Slovenian steel industry. I'm not going to go into the price and the sales contract, which was already a lot of talk, but it would be interesting to hear what kind of money the stranger bought this S.J. with and what this loan was secured with. It is publicly known that at that time the Ljubljana Bank was recapitalised with some EUR 10 million, and at that time, the buyer, according to some information, rented a loan with the Slovenian Banks, and the buyer was, you will not believe, a foreign public official, a member of the Duma, precisely those we are investigating today with Slovenian officials and public officials who have participated in these transactions or have shares in these companies. And even if we are talking about clienteleism, even in this case, it has happened either intentionally or unintentionally, that in the evaluation group there was a lady, the wife of an important director of the public company and the official of the then ruling party, who happened to appear in public also in the case of Patrie. Is it also reasonable here to suspect the suspicion of clientelism, nepotism, or anything else? Next. In the context of the proposal for this meeting, it would be appropriate for me and the public to have more detailed information on whether it is really a suspicion of corruption and clientism, as some sources say, and are also suggested in public if almost EUR 3 million is spent on an economic, developmental, logistics platform called Phoenix near Brežice and the resources of the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment. When three weeks before the elections, before the departure of the previous government, this was in October 2008, some more than 1.3 million additional funds were implemented. Why would that be interesting to hear and find out? Because the former chief of staff of the former minister is watching over this project. A former member of the cabinet of the former minister and perhaps another member of the company is working for him. Everyone who should watch over this agency at a time when they were sitting in comfortable government chairs, over the correctness of the calls and over the careful and economic use of this money. There wouldn't be too much questioning here, either. Finally, it is totally unconvincing to pronounce former members of the government. Today's proponent of this meeting asked for knowledge of what was happening in the Ljubljana Bank at a time when they were sitting comfortably in government chairs. In fact, the President of the Supervisory Committee of the Ljubljana Bank was the Secretary of State of Finance. And, for example, on Luke Koper's Supervisory Committee, the Secretary-General of the Government sat. So, who's moving around here? Who's making fun of who and who in this political kitchen is playing a dirty game?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u32	We do not want to participate in this political accounting in the Slovenian People's Party, so we also took a little time. In Slovenia, however, we want to clear up some of the cases that you mention so many times. Because we are convinced that things are unresolved, but if we start at the end of World War II with the first arms affair, with the second arms affair, the controversial privatisation of controversial tycoon takeovers, that these unresolved issues are the reason that today's political situation and the state of the spirit in Slovenia are at such a level as it is. All those who operate with a number of documents today [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! I don't want to judge you. I don't want you to feel guilty before others decide whether you are responsible or not. But there is something I want to point out. Today there is a debate in the National Assembly on honesty, your honesty, your principles, "principality". Mr. Golobič, you're also at work today. We are also at work and the entire apparatus of the National Assembly, essentially at the expense of taxpayers. We have this session that won't be cheap. The position says the loans weren't secured. You're saying that the papers they wave with have been faked twice. Is that right? If that is true, I believe you - have you filed a criminal complaint against those whom you say you know, that these documents have been prepared or corrected? It's your reputation, your dignity, your principle, "principality," you're being attacked. I think it would be right that we are also talking today about if someone was hoping to falsify this charter, to change there the percentages of insurance or real estate that have been given as a guarantee to zero, to say who it is and to say whether the relevant proceedings against this person are ongoing. Then this session is irrelevant too, because it is, as you yourself said, one big lie. But if that is not the case, and once you have lied to the entire Slovenian public, you have already been sworn in at the time, then it is right to say that in Europe ministers resign, due to moral responsibility, not suspicion, serious suspicion of clientism or corruption, and so on. And you'd do well to step down. Why? Because you said to Mr Erjavac that your party would, of course, support the solution proposal for principle. Be principled this time, too, if that is the case. I call on you on behalf of all those who don't even have enough to normally pay a basket of living costs, and they have to listen to where millions went, where they went, who stole them, why such a priority in assigning credits, but normal people can't even, in fact, have covered normal needs, in the full-time work they do. I do not blame you again, and I would like that Government, the one who will discuss in a serious way also who are the "demonrators" of the Slovenian economy. Surely a greater role and a more critical word is earned here by everyone already appointed, by Scorch, Bavčar, and so on. Because you are guilty of not working in Slovenia today and the profits have been "basked" in their accounts. If we're talking about it, Ultra or not Ultra. I don't want to listen to your company's business balance sheets. I really don't. I just want you to say whether you're guilty or not. If you didn't, why didn't you and what you did to protect the good name? After all, it is also an integral image of the government and our reputation in the National Assembly, because of those I do not say, swine, but it is already known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Golobic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that the Member of Parliament has some other advice for people who are difficult to come by, how they can help each other. Last but not least, it has a good view of how Luka Koper did business in the previous term, what advisory contracts she concluded, how much she bought real estate from people, and how much before that property was sold to individual companies and where the profits were. Regarding the complaints you are mentioning, they have been made. I'm not in charge of the investigation, the charges were filed by the bank, by the company. All those who have, as it is called, active legitimacy to file a complaint in this case have filed it. I have also made a few demands myself, some civil complaints, I will file some more, and today's debate may add something to this set. I won't have any reservations about this, because, as I said, with the facts, not with this, I'm not guilty - I'm not guilty, as you say, of proving what's true and what isn't. In this is the principle you ask with the facts, even when it comes to your mention, the oaths of the time when it was given and the circumstances involved. Learn and then you'll find out what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. In our presentation of the views of the Liberal Democrats' Club, we have said that we regret in some way that this meeting is today, before the Commission of Inquiry has finished its work, which would also give some answers, if any, to these answers, in most investigative commissions in the National Assembly this has not happened. I will personally support the proposal for a decision drawn up by my mother's working body, because we will hardly find out what individual loans were and how these loans were secured after the implementation of this Decision. And then a real debate can be opened, unless today's meeting is intended only for one company, one man and a clean-up on the one hand and on the other. I firmly believe that today's debate will also not contribute to the abandonment of the so-called banking spasm in the banking system, as some banks will further exacerbate all conditions when they listen to us both in a way and in a constant manner, in sayings, we doubt their so-called serious and honest work. To respect the rule of law and the legal system, of course, we must also take into account the position expressed by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the other bankers. This means that, if there were signs of a criminal or corruption offence in current credits, the banks themselves would have triggered it. I hope that our authorities, if they find out, will bring criminal proceedings against them. However, I am firmly convinced, as I have already said in the introduction, that I will support the proposal for a decision prepared by my mother's working body, but I will not vote for the amendments that are also ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Well-known Minister, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. At the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we had a very varied debate on the part of some, even very insulting and disrespectful. Therefore, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia made it clear that the Bank of Slovenia was accused in an unfair and inappropriate manner by some representatives of the National Assembly at this meeting of the Finance Committee. Banka Slovenije’s primary task is to ensure the stability of the banking system. It is also highlighted and very important that, in relation to the declining credit activity or so many times, the almost populistly expressed credit crunch is operated or even manipulated in public. This is why people and business leaders are afraid to rent loans. The uncertainty caused by this type of media exposure of some companies, such as Ultra and its related companies in the group, and the exposure of the largest Slovenian bank, Nova Ljubljanska banka, NLB, which is also owned by the state, causes irreparable or difficult to repair morally and also extremely large business damage to companies in the Ultra Group and the New Ljubljana Bank. Some debates and opinions have gone in this direction that Banka Slovenije’s task would not be to worry about the stability of the banking system and thus the exposure of the banking system as a whole, but not individual companies, but to be an investigative body, but Banka Slovenije is not and will not be the Slovenian FBI’s business. The Bank of Slovenia is an independent institution and must remain an independent institution. The Bank of Slovenia's customers also stressed that the lack of insurance or the insufficient amount of credit insurance poses an increased risk to the business bank, and this does not in any way constitute a corrupt act, the suspicion of clientism, etc. It should also be pointed out that the management of the business bank is responsible to the owners of the bank who exercise control and control through the Bank’s Supervisory Board. The core of the bank's business is servicing the committees and thus an integrated treatment of businesses in all areas of business. As the word on credits and insurance is currently on the move, some forget that the business interest of the bank is a successful and efficient and stable business, which can only be provided by satisfied committee members who trust the bank. To a large extent, the relationship of trust of the bank to the committee is also very important, as was the case in the case of the business relationship of Ultra and NLB. It is clear that the NLB Supervisory Board had not already assessed the excessive risk or otherwise in the previous mandate of the former Government and had already cooperated in business with Ultra in the credit area and had no decision or decision on it by the Bank of Slovenia. However, the cash flow of enterprises is going in this direction that loans on the basis of the approval of a business bank at the request and the role of undertakings and in the business interest of both companies and banks can be renewed or renewed, including those granted at the time of the mandates of the previous governments. However, it would be incomprehensible and unacceptable to think in the debate of some that the internal banking rules should remove the rules on credit being secured or unsecured, as it seems to the business bank. Apparently, some quickly forget what business interests mean, what business or business banks mean, what it means to support the development of the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship by providing a basic condition, which is a quality transport link, as a condition for the development of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, when all conditions, including financial options, were not, for example, to be heard. As mentioned more than once today, I must also mention a case. For example, in the area of the White Land, problems in the textile industry would not have occurred before the beginning of this government’s mandate, when companies such as the Beti Metlik Textile Company, whose owner, among other things, today’s Fund Zvon 1 and Zvon 2, were forced to forgive workers. That is why today, in the White landscape, in Kočevska and elsewhere in Slovenia, we are facing problems of unemployment, human hardship and concern about how to survive. You can't imagine how negative and harmful psychological atmosphere causes such extraordinary sessions to people. I myself will support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and by no means any amendments tabled. I estimate that such attempts by the opposition, as much as possible to make it difficult for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to discredit some in the Government, are not supported, even less popular or popular among voters. Let me say on my own case, when a member of the opposition from the same constituency as I do on the radio says that he has the most problems with me, with Renata Brunskole, if you want to make a deal and then I vote differently. It's nothing but a delusion for me not to say anything more cruel, that it's not true, or that it's even a big lie. People support cooperation, help each other and respect each other, so let us also take this into account, including at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today was a big day. Especially in public. In the media, they thought that it would be "the mother of all the meetings" to hear something new and the mountain would shake. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. I must say that I was very disappointed when I listened to my colleague Visiak, I thought and hoped that we would hear some concrete data today, arguments that we would have to face very combatively, very combatively. It wasn't like that. The performance of Mr Visionak or the proposer was so refined, so demagogic, so irrelevant, because there was not one true argument, one true data that would now be worth discussing for hours and hours. Even more disappointed was I, on behalf of the SDS, because he had no arguments, I quote, he started talking about Mr Weigle's statements in Belgrade, procedural complications, alleged procedural complications before this meeting, and even the Russian ambassador. These were the main arguments of the SDS Group. We have not heard anything about the particular matter or listened to false information again, which has been repeatedly demented and which has been denied even today. I think that all Members have been given the privilege of some Members, additionally transmitted data at the express request of Ultra d.o.o. All Members and Members have the opportunity to see whether the first document has been published bombasticly and which has cheered up the SDS, 'failure' or reliable, because if that was not 'false' we are dealing with 'false' today. [[..]] Is this supposed to be a fake? Look, here we have two concrete signatures, Božo Jašovic, President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, David Benedek, a member of the administration who provides us with specific information on the lending of Ultra. If that's true, this whole structure, which was allowed by the biggest opposition party, is actually a small, small mouse that went down somewhere between the rocking mountains. However, this debate is interesting and I think that this is the greatest possible gift that the SDS party gave to Minister Golobic on his birthday, if I can give him and today I also give him a happy birthday. I think it is the best gift of this meeting, because it was possible for the Minister to explain many aspects because he has no other opportunity. The opportunity is not even available in that investigative committee requested by the same SDS Members, and where they actually want to get some concrete data from the torturers. This data is now transparent, we all have it, not about 20 million unsecured loans, but it's about a much smaller loan coming back. And if I'm not mistaken, here's a total of EUR 2 million,5421,000. Here are the information on the insurance of this loan. So, gentlemen of the SDS, what did you want with this story? What did you want to do to the public and what did you do to the public, except to harm the Slovenian banking system? Because we know exactly that there remain institutions that care for or should care for transparency and the proper and legal functioning of the banking system, namely the Bank of Slovenia, on the one hand, and then a whole range of other bodies, from the Court of Auditors to the anti-corruption commission, to prosecutors, judges, law enforcement authorities, etc. If you have any specific information, please provide it to the competent authorities. Since you don't have that information, you want to make a political story out of it and that's all. And what you've created is an incredible political story. So amazing that the investigative commission did not want to meet the request, the reasoned request, the investigator to grant him the status of the investigative person. Why not? Because the protagonist of this interest would have a greater chance of explaining certain aspects that you cannot explain because you have no arguments or evidence. So, this balloon of yours is completely empty today. You don't have any more terrain, and that's why you're riding, in a very demagogic way, you've rode other tigers, you're spreading perspectives, and you're trying to blur the point. The fact that everything happened during your term of office, which is why you today are trying to blame and accuse the current government or individual ministers. It would therefore be interesting to have this session "articulated" slightly differently and also spread it, for example, through the so-called "agreed economy" of the Vision Ministry with Infond Holding or with the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants or with Termes Catež or with Luka Koper, Intereuropa. I know because I come from that region, I know quite well the situation of Luke Koper and Inter-European. And look, they've finally released the audit data recently. And what you've denied for a long time is now proven. That audit proved that during the presidency of the administration, your political staff, the client staff, Mr. Timer, who is a prominent member of the SDS, there have been major loopholes, which are now finally revealed by the audit. I hope that this will finally be revealed by the criminals who are conducting the investigation. The second great story of your success is Intereuropa. Mr. Peter Lochshin, from the very upper headquarters of Mr. Janez Janša. And there's no talk of 6 million secured loans like Ultra's loans coming back. There's a story about 140 million who went into a Russian hole. And, of course, a few more million who have gone by who knows where to find other people's accounts. Gentlemen, and there you are, and never talk about these things. And these are the most scandalous frauds we know in the history of independent Slovenia. That's not what this is about. You wanted to deal with the Ultra case, not today, but years ago, and you came to realize that you have no more arguments here. And what you wanted to create today is a black hole that you fell into and fell into that hole. It is interesting that today in your debates it was already felt the symptoms of the defensive position. You are trying to blur, you are not going into detail, although Mr Vizjak once again asked for the information he received today - data from the Ljubljana Bank, with the consent of the Ultra Group. Here you have them, read them out and tell the public that everything you've designed is just a political construct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u43	[[...]] [[From the bench.]] Replica! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Juri probably did not listen to me when I represented the position of the Group of Members. I have devoted about a quarter of my time to procedural issues, all of which were also linked to this item of the agenda, since, from November onwards, the President of the National Assembly has prevented this item from being considered in all ways. That's what I explained. But in the other three quarters, I was talking about content. And I must say that the regret of Mr Yuri is now no substance, what we are supposed to be talking about today, I have not heard. I've heard old, long-lived stories that we hear from his mouth at almost every session of the National Assembly, when it's an opportunity -- about how former executives who are "breathing" or members of the SDS have mismanaged. Dear Mr Juri, these people are not co-owners of entire octopuses, they are not owners of networks, they are not co-owners of these networks, such as gentlemen from LDS, Really and SD, which has been said many times and they do not sit in ministerial positions and do not have this conflict of interest. This conflict of interest and this is most evident in the fact that Slovenia is networked with Mr Gregor Golobič sitting here today, not as Minister of the Slovenian Government - I have listened attentively - he has spoken most of the time as co-owner of Ultra. He said things that a 10% co-owner wouldn't even know and know in a normal situation, he spoke as the dominant owner, as the manager, and so on. He was talking about not hiring or wanting to hire someone who is an electrical engineer in this group, but of course they're happy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u46	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u47	Accept Him Who Had Not Complete [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u48	You know. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u49	perfect colleges [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u50	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u51	For that, I [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u52	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u53	to complete the studies. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u54	Please, for a moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u55	By my suggestion, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u56	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u57	He's on his way to listen carefully. [[...]] And if you listen carefully, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u58	Mr. Chernač, your behavior is extremely rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u59	Then you'll know what [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u60	I'm just asking you, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u61	I'm talking. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u62	to explain your views, not to politicize them. [[...]] And I must say again, not for my own sake, but if the chairman asks you for a brief warning, then have the basic courtesy of the Member and stop speaking for a moment. Because what you're doing is totally unworthy. Mr. Gregor Golobich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I myself may not have heard this part at first, Mr Chernač, I think he was not in the hall when I spoke, pointing out that I have taken advantage of the opportunity to be able to perform for the first time in this place of the race after six years of this race today. The only chance I've been given was to be one of the government's representatives here. I said I wouldn't speak as a minister, because this is not about my ministry and my work in the government, but it was the only way I could answer the questions you're asking. And now you're telling me that I'm answering the questions that you're asking, your colleagues, who you're right about. I didn't know much about your demands, but I had to learn from them so that I could answer them. Because, of course, these questions were never meant to receive an answer, serve themselves, serve themselves, serve disqualification; I will not go after your winged disqualifications, to which it leads, so popular. It's the same with Banka Slovenije. You're proceding that you've had a long time with this. Ambassadors Zares, Villa Trophynik and Lojze Posedel proposed that in June or July last year, on the committee of Mr Visionak, the Bank of Slovenia should be invited to review the matter. This decision was adopted. No one's running from it. I said myself that it would be great if Banka Slovenije looked at it. This one rejected it, for the reasons she explained it to you; I was not at that session. You insist that the Bank of Slovenia must do this. They insist that they do not do so for the reasons stated. This is not an obstacle to you because you are not really interested in checking, you are making requests to Banka Slovenije which, for example, cannot be met, to check what credit arrangements companies have in Slovenian banks where any public official is a co-owner. Banka Slovenije does not have this information. The only institution in this country, I am curious, which has data on which companies are owned by a public co-owner, is the Kosovo Commission. And there is no basis for this information to be transmitted to the Bank of Slovenia. By deliberately asking impossible questions to the wrong addresses, you are not interested in the answers. On the contrary, flee from the answers. In Parliament, for the first time in this mandate, an investigative committee dealing with a specific natural person has been proposed and established by the rules of procedure with me. There has been no such case in 20 years of Slovenian Parliamentarianism. And in the event that the investigative commission has defined the subject of its investigation by name and by name, this same commission, led by your member Rudolf Petan, who sits here and is silent, for reasons that he has insight into real documents - he says they are incomplete, he will perfect them, I believe - does not want to decide on my request to be granted the status of the investigator - perhaps he will do so tomorrow, I hope - that I will be able to answer the questions that you are asking and to which the government must answer here because there is no other choice. Like Mr Barovic, who said earlier, and thus repeated Mr Visiank: "The fact that an internal investigation into the NLB is being initiated, that the charges have been made, is proof that the papers that have come from there are credible." At the same time, Mr. Friend says, "Why don't you press charges if these papers aren't credible?" I mean, contradictory, exclusionary requirements that only point to the nature of this story: to cook an affair with the purpose of disqualification, conscious, and in this is the uglyness of the matter that you have no support in the facts. And this investigation is going to reveal that. This investigative committee will come to this. I believe that with her work you will delay until the end of the term and that this will contribute to what has been said earlier on, if I am not mistaken, Mr Bogovic, that there will be an impression of another great affair that has not come to an end, but not because she has no foundation at all. And in this way, the reputation of this Parliament and the policy in general will go in the direction that some obviously want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you've been reported for discussion. You haven't discussed this before, so you can't correct the wrong understanding of what you're saying. But you will have this opportunity in the debate. Mr. Blackach, there's no replica on the replica. You probably know that with a very good knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u65	Look, it wasn't a replica. Mr Golobič, as Minister, the representative of the Government, called for a discussion after I had received the replica of Mr Yuri and in which I wanted to explain some of his incorrect statements, as I now wanted to explain to Mr Golobic some of his incorrect statements made today at this meeting. I am sure that Mr Golobič will be able to speak as much as he wants in the course of the investigative commission. The investigative commission just started work. In fact, there will be a city there to explain what he also said today that Ultra's insurance is three times the value of the loans given. There on that committee, Mr Golobič will be able to explain how this can be done if, in the second half of last year, the "longevation" of the loan, where the value of the insurance is approximately half the property that was given as a flag, the knowledge of this property is approximately half the amount of the two loans from which this loan was secured. There'll be a place to explain that. Here, as a representative of the Government today, I think that both the institution of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure have been abused. I think it's unhygienic that this is how the National Assembly discusses this matter. I understand Mr Golobic, but he must understand that his conduct has in fact shown that he has a very different position as a co-owner of a company and as a minister in this government than any other. There are a number of companies that, with such or other problems, would like to talk about their problems in this National Assembly, which is some of the entrepreneurs, even the previously mentioned President of the Management Board, Luke Koper, would be happy to come to this chair and say all the slanders that have been repeatedly spoken by individual Members, particularly Really, to his account and anyone else, and there is no possibility. So today, when Mr Gregor Golobič of the ministerial chair speaks about matters that have nothing to do with the government and the ministry, it has been shown that he has a different situation in this country and that he is subject to different rules than all normal mortals. And that is exactly what we wanted to point out in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also said that such networking of Slovenia, with such clienteleistic connections, is harmful for this country in the long term, and that those who do not have the option and who do not have such connections are forced to think about leaving this country, even if they have good programmes and are capable of leaving. That is also why I am disappointed that, when I wanted to explain this, you interrupted me, knowing that you've given us a very strict time and reduced it, and that every second I talk to you is very important to me, because then my colleagues won't have time to express their views on this matter. Nevertheless, in the framework of the parliamentary group, we have decided to devote only a quarter of our time to this subject and three quarters of our proposals for economic measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Although I did not hear a procedural proposal to tell the truth, I did not expect it. Mr Gregor Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u67	Well, if I may say so as Minister, this debate at this point is entirely and in all meanings the meaning of your 71st actions and your reflection on the crisis. This is the one, I'm going to say, the horizon where you think about the economy, the economy, the crisis, the credit crunch. This is what you demonstrated at this session. However, I think that it was rare to hear more cynicism in this National Assembly than Mr. Chernač had just said when he told me about the abuse; I have probably triggered this affair so that I have this privilege to perform here today, I am answering your questions. I suggest you ignore me in my assignment, and I won't be able to do that. That's really cynicism, unheard of. To tell me that I'm answering the questions you're asking! I understand that you wanted the question not to be answered because you were not interested in the answers. And I doubt any of those you have mentioned is willing to trade with me for this privilege. I really thank you for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Miroslav Klun, he won't discuss it. Mr. Anton Urh, no. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u69	Your Honors are here! In the beginning, if I sum up the explanation of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Kranjec, in one of the Slovenian officers, that 42% of loans in the banking system are granted without insurance and that this is also the usual practice in banking systems, I get an uncertain sense of the eligibility of today's session. In some ways, however, it denies that non-insuring a loan is a sign of corrupt activity. In this case, it is difficult to talk about business owners or managers being corrupt, rather than saying that they are capable or incompetent entrepreneurs who have used what legislation allows in Slovenia. This is certainly an increased risk for banks that the loan will not return, and I am now so surprised at why the credit crunch is still taking place today when the state guarantees are secured and the banks do not release the loans. I don't understand what kind of game this is. Certainly not for the benefit of the economy. When we see this, we rightly ask ourselves whether the banks are not the ones responsible for the thousands of those who have lost their jobs. The Bank of Slovenia checks the stability of individual banks and thus the financial system. So it would be difficult to reject the fact that Banka Slovenije is not aware of any corrupt activity which it is obliged to report to law enforcement authorities. For months it has been said and proved that Ultra from Nova Ljubljanska has received abnormal loans thanks to Mr Golobič, who owns 10.8% of Ultra Slovenia. Of course, here we can see a lot of data about credits that we could say are benefits and benefits, which gives us suspicion of corruption, because we know companies that don't have an omen. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Sylven Tiny. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Today a number of pirates have been heard here, but also between the lines of predictions that human resources massacres will take place on RTV, some names have been mentioned and, of course, personnel figures are open, we are waiting for a change to the RTV Act. Otherwise, we are talking about banks, the issue of Slovenian banks, which are owned by the majority state, is known. All or some of the problems related to these banks are known. Some are known to the public, but mostly not until some of the extraordinary cases that come to the public come to light. Most of these acts are hidden under the banking secrecy institute. Of course, this institution is essential in our system or in all democratic systems, but at the same time there must be other mechanisms that do not work in our country. The regulator of the banking market in Slovenia also does not work well. Years ago, I received in my hands a confidential document of the new KBM, where the bankers themselves, an internal audit, found that it was a suspected money laundering bank. Everything was proved by documentation, documents, bank positions, explanations, quoting legislation - of course, nothing happened. The people who have allowed these irregularities in this state bank are still at the top of this bank and are serving various masters in the last decade. The consequences of my disclosure in the media at that time are well known. An officer who warned about irregularities flew away, while those who committed these crimes remained untouchable or even advanced. Today the question was also raised here, why are we talking about just one case, and the Ultra case, I'm going to go on another case myself. In the National Assembly, I had already asked a question about the work of LHB Frankfurt a while ago, but I did not get an answer. In Frankfurt, it was also a matter of some strange business, which also Kosovo's anti-corruption commission discussed and is in one of the principal opinions, I think that the number of hundred and some of this principled opinion has marked this business as a suspicion of corruption. I'm gonna bring this story up for a minute. MM Logitrend, whose majority owners are Janko Zakeršnik and his sons, and where the company is established in Karlsruh, has applied for a loan of EUR 30 million. And even though this company was then a new customer and it was a huge amount of EUR 30 million, they received this loan within six days. Under this loan contract was signed to the President of the Management Board of LHB Boris Zakrešek, member of the Management Board of Nikola Mrkič. The loan was earmarked for the purchase of their own Eurocity company. This business continued in later years, for example, Zakeršnik was able to get a loan of EUR 2.7 million in five days, and we all know if we are going to get some housing credit or car credit to wait for a lot of days and how much insurance we need to have, what interest we are paying. According to some informal information, then the French LHB loan was to be returned through one of the Slovenian banks. And here there is a likelihood or suspicion that this company would raise costs, on the other hand, reduce profits and thus obtain tax reliefs and reduce tax obligations to the Slovenian state. That was the reason for the suspicion. But you also know that this gentleman today is 52% of the owner of Preventa, Prevent Global, and this is the company that's on the line today - it's a shame because Zanoškar's colleague is not here, he could say more - he owes banks 62 million euros. And I believe that not only workers in Koroška will be on the road, what a thousand - God forbid that would happen - but that will also have consequences for some other banks in Slovenia. Of course, Banka Slovenije will claim that there is no interference with LHB in Frankfurt, but I could talk the German central bank into doing their work. However, Banka Slovenije has an interference over Nova Ljubljanska banka, which is also owned by the majority state and Nova Ljubljanska banka is the owner of LHB Frankfurt, of course. Of course, Slovenian bankers, the management of Slovenian banks, do not work on their own. They probably have a little bit from this rich table of Slovenian rich people. Just look at the assets some directors of Slovenian banks have, which, of course, they cannot afford in normal work throughout their lives. Let me finish. Don't get blinded, there's only one phone call in this country that needs a policy, or there's a credit or even a doctorate board. In short, we have to deal with telephone democracy in the "kumrov" way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss it. Mr. Willy Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. There was a lot of talk today, unfortunately most of us are past the agenda, so I'm going to listen strictly to the agenda. Proposal for a Decision concerning "The Proposal for a Bank of Slovenia to report, within the framework of the constitutional and legislative provisions of the National Assembly, suspicions of corrupt financing by companies whose shareholders are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at national level, by commercial banks in majority state ownership, at the time of the worst credit crunch." Of course, concern for the stability of the banking system is logical and there is no problem. However, it is a matter of principle whether the applicants of this agenda item today have led to a request for an extraordinary meeting of concern for the stability of the banking system or whether it is valuable not to say, a populist effect in the public - of course, the conclusion that this is another option is closer. Why? If today's proposers actually care about the stability of the banking system, then the title of this point should be significantly different, because the potential problem is not just bank loans to firms where there are such or other policies to simplify, co-owners, but they are likely to be a larger problem with any unpaid or unpaid loans granted by banks, irrespective of the borrower's ownership. The address itself confirms that it's some other purpose. Of course, that ornament at the end, under the terms "and this at the time of the worst credit crunch", this is confirmed only because so many times the misused term "credit cramp" tries to use in terms of dramaticity of the problem, although the explanation is only on one firm or one borrower. On purpose, I will not talk about this borrower or others on the other hand who might be problematic, because if I accepted this game, then I would go down to a level that I find repulsive and shows the actual purpose of the proposers of this point. The proposals for this point proposed in their paper the following conclusion: "The National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia to report to it, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, suspected corrupt acts of financing of companies and to abandon prudent practices in cases of financing of companies whose shareholders, regardless of the size of the share, are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at State level, by commercial banks in majority state ownership from November 2008 onwards." As if there were no problems or at least theoretical problems with loans granted before November 2008 which were granted to such or other political functions by the holders of those functions. Power is interesting! And of course, because we do not object or even want Banka Slovenije to perform its function under its legal and constitutional powers and report on this to us - of course, the Governor of Banka Slovenije has made it clear that he does not think the bank or he personally does not intend to be in the service of such or other political options and to report on specific cases, but controls as a competent institution the entire banking system and possible irregularities, but we have proposed a slightly different decision for today's meeting. That is, a decision covering all possible contested loans, not in the order of borrowers, and all those that are not fully repaid because that is the only logic. However, today, in a presentation by the proponents, someone has taken advantage of the abuse because he has informed us that we have prevented the purpose of the proponents on the home working body of the Committee on Finance with procedural machinations. If this is a procedural machination, when we want to hunt down all irregularities in all unpaid loans, but not just some cases that could be misused or the target of abuse for political purposes, then something is wrong with someone. On the other hand, we are also on the other hand, and to avoid instigating that we are afraid of a possible verdict, I will use this term, "competent professional financial institutions on credits" - now I will be forced to withdraw from that promise that I will not use - "group Ultra" we have proposed that the Bank of Slovenia - although we are aware that this is beyond its legal and constitutional role, we have proposed that the Bank of Slovenia decide whether it can possibly make this assessment and definitively cut off these incitements or justifiable accusations or whatever. And look at the fragment. Although we have listened to the Governor's comments - by the way, it is extremely distasteful and inappropriate that we have such rules of procedure, that the Governor should not sit there and say what and those who have not watched the transfer from the meeting of the parent working body do not know how clearly he has set up this problem, but interestingly, the representative of the applicants has forced us to withdraw from this decision and threaten to interrupt or request in accordance with the procedure or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the termination of the meeting of the parent working body, if we insist that, despite the concerns we have had, we insist that the Bank of Slovenia assess the appropriateness of the approval procedure, including the provision of ultra credits. Therefore, in order to conclude the meeting and prepare a point for today's meeting, we were forced to withdraw from this requirement. That's manipulation? More than manipulation is now, when we receive proposals from amendments to the drafters to the decision adopted on the home working body. Because, see, under point 2, the applicants are pledging again for a similar decision, which they prevented at a meeting of the parent working body with a threat after the interruption, because there, that I will not steal time, because you can read it yourself, require something similar or a little less than we ourselves asked Banka Slovenije to review or evaluate with Ultra’s credits. This just confirms the indisputableness of any further discussion in the sense that the purpose of the applicants is not to worry about the stability of the Slovenian banking system and to expose and remedy possible irregularities, before which - I agree - the banks are not immune and all those associated with the banks but that they need some sort of crane that needs to be dispersed and cared for so that they do not put out, fuel or heat, to make the fire burn, but practically do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Černač, you have not been appointed and, on behalf of the applicant, only Mr Vizjak is registered for discussion. Whenever he wants, he'll get his word, and now I can't give it to you. Mr. Blackach, procedurally. Are you going to use the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u75	Dear Vice President, I didn't do it before, and I won't do it now. I ask you to give me your word, given that Mr Trophynik spoke about the things I spoke about on the committee, he spoke about today, and he misrepresented certain things, which is why I would like to explain them in the context of the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u76	Mr. Chernač, I think you can explain, and here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I have already made this point clear in the position of the Group of Members, that if this is by proposing less than was proposed on the Committee, then I do not see a problem at all. He expects you to support our amendments. But I'm not exactly sure that if I've listened to the views of the groups of Members, because we're proposing less, it doesn't. What we are proposing comes exactly from what has already been proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances before time and has been rejected or missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. He won't discuss it. Brada Roast. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. A warm welcome to the ministers, to the co-workers, and especially to Minister Golobic, whom I am sure is celebrating today, and I congratulate him that, of course, the evening will certainly be better for him than the day that began. For this session today could give you such a work address as you would like, listen! However, of those many 30s, which, senseless for Slovenia, for the central bank, the borrowers of credits have been adamant in their claim, of those 30 here today are very few, a handful. I was happy and proud yesterday on the Committee on Finance that we could all on the public stage build confidence in the Bank of Slovenia, the governor, the vice-governor who put things in the right place. An institution with such a reputation as the Bank of Slovenia is not and cannot be a meme to play with today's politics, especially the opposition. The view was clearly expressed that the banks were, of course, sensitive to their decisions, to whom, why, and how they would lend credit, sovereigns, that it was a professional decision, that money was a shy, sensitive bird, and that because it was expressed such doubts in the confidence of this system, it would certainly be a greater credit crunch in that country. And it is obvious that those who do not want good in this country, who do not think positively, have achieved their goal. I am glad that yesterday in the debate they withdrew, that almost everyone has left the committee and that there has been no one, and it is good to defend this negative, meaningless, harmful position for Slovenia. What's the point of every loan? The point of each credit is that, of course, the borrower deserves something on this loan and the relationship is ideal if the borrower also repays the loan. I have not heard any reason, no argument that a company that is reputable, Slovenian, high-tech company - and such as a Member in this country - would not return an abundance of credit. He was a two-man, and he was built by a political structure against someone in this country who doesn't like him. This negative trend that everything is allowed to achieve short-term political objectives, forgive me, in these serious times when Slovenians and Slovenians should step together, is still potential; and it is potential daily. I am pleased that there are many of them in this Chamber, and that most of them will also be opposed to this negative trend, to say that we Slovenians have a good bank, that we want to be able to give more credit, that the central bank is a respected, independent institution, and above all that it is necessary to decide who, when, at what amount, will be granted credit, to the professional institutions in banks, that there is, of course, a statistical information that 42% of loans are unsecured but based on trust, and a large majority of these funds will be reimbursed as always. Banks, especially state-owned ones, will earn, profit, profits will belong to a country that can be earmarked for a number of necessary economic measures. That is the essence of this story of today's session and today's exercise. I am pleased that the opposition has also learned this yesterday that they have withdrawn a step back, and it is also good today that the debate is moderate that the damage you have already caused will not add another story to that that would be difficult for many people who are waiting on chalk to take the necessary resources. Above all, I hope that, at the point following this point, the knowledge will also prevail that, of course, this credit spasm has been repeatedly abused by the political faction and that the problem of this country and elsewhere is not that it would be difficult to reach the credit. Good projects with guarantees are still subject to credit. What worries me as a Member is that the applicants who ask for a loan from the economy are less each month that the Slovenian economy has exhausted its credit potential at a time when all was enough when they were dipping between and milk, that we were then too indebted and now there is no room for new surplus credits. Here, however, is our common problem for everyone in this Chamber, and this is a problem that we need to focus on and also with the exit measures and with concrete proposals to try to mitigate, it cannot be resolved overnight with any extraordinary meeting, with no political decree. This must be a message from this meeting that, on the one hand, the opposition to the damage done to Slovenia and the Slovenes is not allowed all that the Bank of Slovenia and the Slovenian banking system of trust are worthy, solid, stable system, which, of course, is in good will, cooperation, and in particular a positive thinking to upgrade and improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Alan Bukovnik will not discuss it. Dara Lavtišar Bebler, not at all. I can't discuss it because I'm in charge of the meeting. Matevž Frangež will not discuss it. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Joko Godec. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much again. We heard a lot of things in this debate today. However, we have heard things that do not hold back or have heard lies that will eventually need to be explained. Lies about the fact that individual loans have been more stringently secured than the rest of the committees. It has been said three times as much as is true of others, which is not confirmed by the documents we have in the National Assembly. They're talking about something else. One interesting thing was that I have to say is that it is somehow symptomatic, and it points to what I was talking about in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, talking about this network in Slovenia, that without adequate political support it is not possible to get jobs. Today was said to be a mag. electronics 12 years ago in a high-tech company dealing with information technology, which Ultra did, did not get a job, and in June 2003 a student of the Faculty of Philosophy, which he enrolled in 1983, Mr. Gregor Golobič, became the business director of this company. The Group has clearly estimated that it needs this direction, because then Mr Gregor Golobič has temporarily left politics because he wanted to focus on the study, according to the Ministry's website. He wanted to finish his studies at the Faculty of Philosophy and probably saw an additional challenge in this job. Why a high-tech company that is established, as we have heard today, in international markets needed political protection to be called this. Here I think that the problem that we do not realize in Slovenia is largely unaware of. Unfortunately, some of those sitting in government chairs today are unaware of this problem. This is a problem of faster development of Slovenia. If we do not allow the same opportunity in Slovenia to all those who have knowledge, ideas and who have the opportunity to realize them, and if we agree to this syntagmo, that they need to be able to make progress and move faster, then I think that Slovenia will also be lagging behind in development in the coming years, as in 2009. And the purpose of this meeting was to allow non-transparent procedures to be terminated and to make it clear in public that the highest policy in this country is behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u83	Mr. Blacky likes to repeat things that don't hold. Before I was very precise, I said that for a loan given to Ultra at an amount, if I am not mistaken, 450,000 euros in August 2009, during a major crisis, this loan was secured with three times the value. I was talking about this loan. Look at the magnetograms, you'll see very precisely. In other words, I said that all loans were secured cumulatively at the discretion of the bank and all the relevant, valued, juridical and other higher-value judgements than the total amount of loans granted which are being repaid in the meantime. Nor is it true, Mr. Chernač, about the motives, why I have been and when I have been employed in Ultra - is not true. I have completed my studies a year before, as you say, and I am in several interviews with the company, I believe that your research service, which runs a file on every Member, politician or anyone who has ever been able to advertise or, God forbid, say something critical about your client, lead and always pull out of your pocket when it is necessary to disqualify him that you have these explanations very clearly what my role in the company was, at what point I entered it, for whatever reason my task, what I was doing. Mr. Visjak was a robotics specialist, as far as I know. It wasn't an electrical engineer. It was a robotics specialty. And Ultra never went into robotics. So do not insinuate things you do not know or learn internally. As I speak, I would also like to mention that I fully agree with Mr Mir Petk's implementation of the LHB. I think that this affair, or the motive of those who conveyed this story from the NLB to Mr Visionak, is because of joy, when he knew, as he himself said, that they were leading those actors from the bank's revenge motive, he didn't think they might frame him for his motive something that wasn't credible, but he grabbed it, and today he's alone in the clearing with a problem that others had caused, and he took it carelessly. I believe that that is why he has also revealed here today the explicit name of the man who put this document in public - the former President of the NLB administration. In your initial implementation, you have mentioned it explicitly for the first time so far. You have reasons for this, perhaps he has deceived you, but you are also aware of yourself, you have let go because you believed that revenge could be a motive you should believe. I myself have been at a time since I am a minister to serve Mr Cernač - and also as a minister I speak, the Minister not only deals with his own department, but also as a member of the Government participates in all decisions taken by the Government. In the first part of its mandate, the government has been very busy in economic and banking affairs, the government as a whole, including banking cramps, guarantees, insurance, credits, reprogramming. I myself, as I said, was quite active, demanded very consistently, as Mr Friday used to say, to clear up things such as reckless, reckless, controversial granting of high loans to companies in LHB and Slovenia. That is why it was also my view that, when appointing a new administration, I had no direct influence on this, but the political view that none of the previous NLB administration should be appointed to a new administration in order for the new administration to be fully charged with these problems of making or making past decisions and that these things are being cleared. I believe it's disturbed a lot of people, but we're safely on the same side here. Whether we have a telephone democracy or not, I find it difficult to judge. If we have her, she's obviously a failure. In the previous term, I believe she was very successful. When it came to the recapitalisation of the NLB, in order to lend credit to a member of the Russian pride to buy the Slovenian steel industry, I am sure that Mr Vizjak had nothing to do with this; it is unlikely that he telephoned anyone. Recently, the President of the Government told one of the meetings that he knew how to call him at 7:00 a.m. - to make a phone call, but only to the Prime Minister. Well, these are cases worth dealing with. I'd only mention one more, which I'd like to serve again from my district. We have been dealing with the issue of the construction of broadband links in Slovenia in areas where there are no broadband links, on so-called white foxes. Member Zorn recently asked me a legitimate question and I tried to answer it to the best of my ability. At the Ministry of the Economy, an invitation to tender for the allocation of high European funds for the construction of these networks was made in the last year of the mandate. I believe it's just a coincidence that all the funds were distributed only to municipalities whose mayors were members of the previous coalition. And not just that, in the exact proportion that they had seats in the National Assembly. Among them was such a congregation in Postojna, to serve Mr. Cernač again. The invitation to tender already expired and a week before the expiry of the time limit, it was excluded from the terms of the invitation to tender that the applicant undertaking must issue a bank guarantee for the seriousness of the offer, which is the most common one, but this was the millionth amount. This criterion was excluded from the tendering conditions by the Ministry of Vision a week before the invitation to tender, so that an undertaking which had been set up ten days earlier could, of course, not be granted any bank guarantee, could be declared, but needed business and received it, I believe that without a telephone call. I believe that it bothers many that this area has passed into this area and that we will investigate and sanction these and other cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u84	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u85	Well, I think it's good, on the one hand, that Mr Golobič is in the National Assembly today, to completely expose his ego. This is an ego that is harmful to the minister of any government. I am glad that he did not have the opportunity to participate in the Yangtze government because he would have done great harm to that country. And I am also pleased that Mr Lahovnik signed this contract for the construction of an optical network throughout the villages, because Mr Lahovnik, your minister, signed it before this resort passed under your patronage. Because, after what I hear now, despite the fact that the call was properly made, three attempts were made in two years before it was able to meet all the conditions that we could in addition to other municipalities on this call - of course, there were a number of municipalities in this country that are building a broadband network around villages, so where people do not have access to this network - these European funds have been able to obtain. After what I hear today, I firmly believe that because I live in the Permanent Congregation, I would certainly be sanctioned, and Member Cernač and his congregation, because Mr Golobič can think about it, but they will no longer have the means to have a few thousand people who otherwise cannot reach the broadband network to do so. Now, no files run by SDS, I must disappoint you, Mr Golobič, but it is true that I made one incorrect, then I read your biography a little more accurately on your website. You graduated in 2002 and the year before you got a job at the Ultra High Technology Company, with a diploma assignment when philosophers shut up, the Kraal case. And you were talking about some credit of about half a million euros, and I was talking about some of the other loans of the same Ultra Group, where it was just a little less than two million euros in two loans that were secured with about a million and three hundred thousand euros, which is a long way from the three-time insurance that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u86	Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u87	I was only talking three times about this loan. I spoke about others in other parameters and let them learn about it. As for your graduation assignment, you answered yourself: When philosophers shut up and there is no case [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But Kratil. [[...]] I shut up and went to the company. The deal's on, and before you, you just didn't exactly read it. And there will be no misunderstanding. The people of whom your fellow Member, Mr Zorn, spoke and who do not have the opportunity in the area of his constituency of broadband internet connections have been deprived of their rights due to incorrect calls made in the previous term. These were underprivileged. In this mandate, the criteria will certainly not be who the mayor is from where a Member comes from, but, rather, whether an undertaking that is expected to fulfil this difficult task meets the criteria. You claim that an undertaking which was established 10 days before the deadline for broadcasting and could not even give a bank guarantee for the seriousness of the transaction to fulfil them. It is very interesting that you are so carefully trained about the invitation to tender. This company is not from Postojna, it is from the other end of Slovenia. If I can give you back a question from before, because I believe I am the owner of a company; in this answer you have appeared as someone who has been very involved in this particular invitation to tender. I hope you're not co-owner of this company. I therefore suggest that you examine precisely whether this network is really being built where there is no cable network that enables the Internet, or whether it is also being built there, and whether it has deprived people where there are really white foxes, which your colleague Zorn rightly asked. And then you'll find clear answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u89	Very precisely, I see you've been taught certain things. Mr Golobič, I must disappoint you, I do not know what this company is called, which builds a broadband network in Postojna. But of course, I know the project. It would be bad if you didn't know him. I suggest you ask your co-workers at the Ministry to correct the misstatement of your diplomatic assignment, which contains the case of the Kraal, with two a's and an l's at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Černač, this is really beyond content and I would like to ask you, I always give you my word, because Mr Minister speaks as a representative of the Government. You're replicating him. Mr. Secretary, please. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Can we move on normally? Mr. Bevk only has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, we will be discussing for almost 10 hours at the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in this reference, at 14 regular sessions, which was called upon by the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party. The opposition, however, proposes or has in stock many other proposals for extraordinary meetings, which put pressure on the spring road to the streets and markets. Because of the extraordinary meetings, we had to postpone and adjust the regular work of the National Assembly. Regular work withdraws from extraordinary fairs, we work in abnormal conditions and in times of distress. This, however, objectively means that the quality of our discussions and decisions are not the same as they could be in some normal situations. Apparently, the opposition or at least the biggest opposition party of the SDS decided that after the lost elections or after the first half of the defeat, if I say so in sports jargon, "aggressive press" would continue. But that is not always the case, and most of the time it turns on the one who imposes it. I therefore propose that we calm the ball in the National Assembly and focus in particular on the regular work and consideration of the proposals prepared by our government to deal with the financial, economic and social crisis in the form of the so-called exit strategy. If we may already be able to find an apology for the 2nd item of the agenda for today's session, the 1st item is proposed for purely political reasons. The National Assembly has even set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry on this issue, but this is obviously not enough for the biggest opposition party. She wished to have a debate in plenary and in front of the television audience and direct transmission on two networks of national television. This is also the sole purpose of today’s session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll start where my colleague Bevk ended up, as far as the purpose of this meeting is concerned. I doubt that the purpose is exactly as it is in the reference, but in fact I have followed with understanding the presentation of the proposer of today's Magi meeting. Andrej Visiak, because this morning it was probably difficult to answer the question of how to perform or how to lie today, after real credit data was revealed, about the state of our banking system, when the Governor of Banka Slovenije told us how things were going in this country and in every legal country. And I think the purpose of this session was consistent with Eastern wisdom: "If you can't convince yourself, at least avoid it!" And that's how this story's been going on for months. I regret that Banka Slovenije has joined those state institutions which, for at least one of the political parties to the Slovenian political space, no longer represent a credible institution. What we have somehow gotten used to is that the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the President of the State, the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the status of the capital as being things which, although enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, mean as much to a lot as last year's snow. He swings his hand and says, "I don't believe it!" The question is whether there is an institution in this country that is still trusted. And I'm going to end with a Dutch proverb saying, "Hoge bomen vangen vel wind," which means, "High trees capture a lot of wind." And I think this is the case we're witnessing to him today. Thank God, tall trees usually have strong roots, if not, they wouldn't run as high as they do, and they can resist the wind. If they are highly technologically educated, they can still use them, as in the Netherlands they start with mills per wind already [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For centuries. [[...]] Thank God, and I hope that this benefit of today's session, which will give this wind, which would otherwise be infertile, a new meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and Associate Minister of the Government. I would like to believe that the desire to convene this meeting is a serious concern, but it can be summed up for a modest reason for calling, even more modest explanations, and in particular everything else annexed to this request, that what we are doing today at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly could actually be done on the Commission for the supervision of public finances and within the framework of the Commission of Inquiry. If I refer only to the material transmitted, I would expect from the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, given his function in the previous term, that he would be able to understand the explanations of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia relating to the request for documentation and which speak of what the powers of the Bank of Slovenia are, in fact, as supervisory institutions. But no! This is exactly what it says: "In the conditions of a severely deteriorating economic situation, both Banka Slovenije and the supervisor cannot ensure that the credit portfolio does not deteriorate. This applies to all types of credits, including acquisition credits. In such cases, the supervisor shall act in accordance with his or her powers. The objective of the supervisor is to ensure the stability of the banking and financial system, which has so far been successful by the Bank of Slovenia." And for me, this sentence is crucial. When I look at all these things, how they happen, all the demands for emergency meetings, for emergency meetings, for attacks on the left and right, then I see that it is in fact a fundamental intention to build confidence in those institutions that have generally had quite solid trust in people. The Slovenian public opinion, which is accompanied by these years and years, is based on the conclusion that the confidence of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the national currency as long as we had it, and in the Bank of Slovenia has always been very high. Such debates, which we are now witnessing, are actually trying to cast doubt on the strength of the banking system, doubts about the strength and ability of the Bank of Slovenia to control in the context of the legally prescribed positions, but of course it is collateral damage - now forgive me, Minister, to call you so - and the distortion and attack of the minister of this government and his party. Collateral, as bad as I think this is a fundamental purpose, because attacks against ministers are one after another, that, while this is the right of the opposition, it is true, only the opposition should then have solid evidence of what it claims, not to build on lies, deception and flawed comparisons. At least from those who have ever known anything about lending, of course, I think of Drava Power Plants and 21 million, I would expect only a little more strength in the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So there was little time left to answer some of the charges. On the part of Mr Golobič, I was told to sit here and remain silent. Of course I'm sitting in Parliament if I'm a Member. Where else am I supposed to be? We don't have a high park in Ljubljana yet! Moreover, I would not feel comfortable if we were to be expelled from Parliament, because you are very hindering us from doing what the opposition can, it is said, through Parliament and through parliamentary committees. [[...]] Of course I am, because I've been waiting for my word. It's just that it's my turn now, and there's not much time left, but only now can I get a word and I can come by, because I'm just one of those people who doesn't like to jump into words. That's how I kept my mouth shut and kept my mouth shut. However, as for the second charge made by Mr Golobič that we did not give him the status of the subject, I can say that until we started with the right work, that is to say, the evidentiary conclusion, even the witnesses and the investigators, was not appointed. Tomorrow, when our session is held and when we reach an evidence decision, Mr Golobič will also be granted this status and there will be no problem. He will be able to carry out his task as he wishes, and he will be able to attend the meetings so that there is no such fear. Now these few more seconds to take advantage of this, but I would like to say this because there have been a lot of accusations that the commission I am leading has received the appropriate material from the relevant authorities and why we are not solving this in the parliamentary group. Forgive me, the material received by the parliamentary group cannot be delivered - because it is also top secret, and also that which is not confidential - to no one on the committee, even my fellow Members. Sorry, or good luck, that's right. There is legislation here, and if any other body of the National Assembly wishes to obtain the same material, it must request the same owner of this material to use it. I can't deliver the material, and as long as I'm president, we're just going to be careful with the material, not hiding it, as it was said on Friday, and we're not going to show it to the other unauthorizeds, just like [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. He's not here. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar - not either. Mrs. Janja Klasinc - cancels. Mr. Marian Krizman Madam Mag. Andrea Richtar? Mr. Tadej Slapnik? Mr. Andrej Magajna? Mr. Bogdan Barovich? Mr. Anton Anderlich? Mr. Jože Tanko? You don't have time anymore, exactly. Mrs. Melita Zupevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And I'm gonna say one last thing. I am pleased that we have only come to the right conclusion after four hours of discussion, that is to say, to the right intentions of the applicants, this is a personal discussion with Minister Gregor Golobic. That was clear. That's not my judgment. There was talk of ego, but I don't know what else. The right thing to do is to see what the essence of today's session is. But, look, I think the decision that we can finally make at the end of this point at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is one. This is that we propose to Banka Slovenije, do not impose or expect it to operate within the framework of the law, within its powers and within the framework of its independence. Everything else is impossible. There is nothing else I can expect or demand from the Bank of Slovenia. And that is what you know very well those who are sitting in the Commission for the supervision of public finances and other committees. As it is said, in the Group of Members, we will also support the decision already adopted by the Committee on Finance at the meeting of the National Assembly. Finally, a little bit of a joke, a little bit of a joke. Today it's been so many times, and I didn't count, using this God-Cursed word "ultra." I have to tell you, the word "ultra" isn't necessarily bad all the time. I can show you one piece of evidence. Look, it says "ultra" on this can, too. It also says something else, and I must tell you that it is not such a bad beer, even though it says "ultra", that you will believe that the word "ultra" does not always require some very in-depth debate that sometimes the word "ultra" can also mean something good. And I believe you'll take my word for it because you listen to me so carefully. As it is said, the conclusion of today's session can only be one, this is to express the expectation that the Bank of Slovenia is doing what it must do to act in accordance with the law, in accordance with its competences and in accordance with its independence. Everything else is, if you ask me, ordinary politics. I think today it has also been shown that there has been a slight shortage of "stresses" in the field of Ultra and Mr Gregor Golobic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u100	Thank you. The word is also given by a representative of the government. Here you are, Mr. Minister Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I think most of the open questions about this credit line have been clarified, so I'm not promising a lot of additional conclusions here. As far as incentives for technologically advanced production are concerned, I can ensure that we are in the middle of financing developmental conversion, that patent data show success in the past year and we look forward to even better results in this year, with final effect on a higher economic standard, on greater competitiveness, on a higher standard of living and on a better perspective for future generations. We have gone with three large calls, we are still planning a call for reimbursement, where we will use some of the success funds, and in all this context, I think that small breakthrough companies such as Ultra will also be able to create some information infrastructure to manage certain processes. I think that the city of such companies, established in Slovenia and that our legislation is open enough, is flexible enough for such companies to stay here. I hope that this somewhat unfortunate debate will not affect any of these companies leaving Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Does the motioner want a word? Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I hope there's still something we can say about the amendments. Just one thing. Here I have asked the Government, as a proponent, to prove the claims to prove that these loans are secured. Mr Golobič has also solved her silence on this matter. Please inform the Slovenian public that your credits are adequately secured! We have the opposite evidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Golobič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u105	Mr. Visac, I think the ball is on your side. You must prove the charge, not me. Listen to your president, who likes to repeat this password very much, I am glad that for a moment he showed up, flashed in the yellow sietch also in the hall, during this debate, unfortunately, he did not come forward, although he was a signatory to the request; but the ball is on your side. You've reached the data of the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr Cernač said earlier that there was room to discuss all the details on the investigative committee, and he even told me that I dared to comment on the topic here. I am very pleased with what Mr Rudolf Petan said earlier, that tomorrow, after more than half a year, I will be granted the status of the subject and that the Commission will seriously begin to examine all the documents, all the facts and conduct professionally. This is the best recovery from this half of the hall in the course of this session and I am grateful for it. Otherwise, the facts were stated, including the motives for the meeting and the case at all, I mean, sufficiently supervised. If you ask me if it's nice to shave the towel in which others wipe their unclean hands, I can tell you that it's not pleasant, but you have to take a lease to get it done by the undisclosed people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u107	Once again, indeed, we have the authentic document of the New Ljubljana Bank, which no one on the part of the New Ljubljana Bank denied. From which it appears that the loans to Ultra Group are inadequately secured. Mr Golobič has repeatedly stated that this is not the case and that credits are well insured, adequately secured. I ask him to prove his statements to us parliamentarians and to the public all over Slovenia. I've asked him three times, not once.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u108	Mr. Master Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u109	Mr. Vizjak is a master, I'm not. But still, I'm going to say, it's hard to face facts that you should read in front of you as a master. These are the facts. You claim something else, you want me to claim something third. We're not gonna make it this far. Look. The Commission of Inquiry will pay full attention to this, I hope that other institutions, including the Bank of Slovenia, will do so if it so wishes. I would be the most interested in this, as I have said, despite understanding the reasons why the Governor of Kranjec is opposed; because he does not know where this idea will then be, that the accused must prove innocence. Mr Vizjak, if you recall on the committee, Mr Kranjec mentioned that what you are proposing was not realized in Slovenia or in 1946. But in 1946 it was valid to teach your mentors that the accused had to prove their innocence. Here I return this question of yours. You have to prove that you have been misleading the Slovenian public for eight months. If you've been misled by someone from the Ljubljana Bank, it's not up to me to solve your problem. You'll probably have to prove your claims elsewhere, not me, not you, not in this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u110	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u111	Dear Mr Golobič, you have once deceived the Slovenian public and lied to the press. You admitted that and you repented. How can we trust you again? We believe in papers and documents. The document I have suggests that you are deceiving the Slovenian public again. Prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u112	Mrs. Orzam. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Minister Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u113	I will not repeat this for the third time because we are not still in the mill, but in the temple of democracy, Mr. Visjak. Because it is also right to repeat incomprehensible claims if someone believes that they should be repeated or that they replace the content that has been lacking in the debate. You have papers in front of you, I don't have your papers, because I've never dealt with these loans, I don't have this documentation, you have it, you hand it over to Mr Rudolph Petan, who is sitting in front of you, and he's going to put it on the board and study it with due care. You're saying the loans weren't secured. I'm not saying they're insured just like that, I'm talking about the facts you have before you, which, with the signatures of the President and a member of the NLB administration, the one who is now responsible for these papers and the credibility of these papers, has forwarded to the parliamentary commission of inquiry. It is also black on white that all loans were secured with a higher value than the amount of loans. That these loans are returned and are more than half-returned that the bank does not, this is not the case, but that they would conclude that the bank, during all this period, is the core of these loans, which otherwise do not represent its credit arrangement in its mass, does not need to establish, virtually no additional provisions, which could only be the point in your case if these loans were taken into account that these loans are coming back. This is the text that you don't have, which I don't have, which is not mine, but it's from three institutions, if you don't believe me, and you'll let the investigative commission, I believe you don't like it, eventually convinced you that eight months, counting from today, you were wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u114	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u115	Here is your co-worker, Head of the Zares Group, who gave me one copy of which indicates that as many as three loans were secured with one and the same property. These are sports facilities. This is probably this tennis center in Zagorje and the business building. Ultra has secured one short-term and two long-term loans in such a way, if, of course, with one property, you could secure some loans, of course you explain it to yourself, and it is possible if this property is so much more valuable, but this property is worth EUR 1.3 million and the loans together are worth about EUR 3 million - today's unpaid work, let alone on rental. And once again I ask you, Mr Golobič, what you have now shown is that there is inadequate insurance for these loans. Also the currency, the currency is the first insurance form for all credits. Meenica, my respects. So again. The papers we have, which you are also presenting to us, prove otherwise and something very important. What the Commission of Inquiry will find will not be communicated to the Slovenian public. The Slovenian public, however, has the right to know whether you have again deceived the Slovenian public or are deceiving it again and again. And I'll prove it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u116	Mr. Mag. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u117	Unfortunately, not a master, or luckily, according to the predecessor. The Slovenian public has the right to know this and will also learn from the Commission's report. I believe, however, that the media will have forwarded documents and results to it earlier, as has been the case in recent weeks. Today, however, the Slovenian public has learned, Mr Vizjak, that you are misleading the public, that you are misleading the National Assembly, that you are misleading the media, and this has been clearly proved today. You've done it again, I'll say, some rude trick. You're talking about securing one property on these loans. Is this the only guarantee for these loans? No, it's not the only one, and in that sense, Mr Visjak is lying. Stop lying and fooling the Slovenian public. There are claims with which these credits are paid at multiple values for each individual. Be correct, if the note is written in the first place, then it's because the bank wanted it to. You were probably the Minister of Economy, and this will be my last debate, and you should know more about this than you are here proving, obviously in a desire for some political account. I don't know what the motive is, except political, but maybe the fact that this government is more successful in solving the problems that are facing this country than you have done. I'm afraid I can't help you here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u118	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u119	So, Mr President-in-Office, the interest of the panellists and my interest is the truth. Learn the truth about these loans, learn the truth about Mr Golobič's statements. Mr Golobič has lied a few times today, and I will now prove it. With documents, not with flossules, Mr. Golobich. Firstly, you listed all the loans that Ultra has, and you said none of these loans were reprogrammed, and none of these loans were delayed. It's a lie. You said, further, with Ultra's loans, this bank didn't have any problems, as I mentioned, they all come back with interest, no reprogram insurance that exceeds the value of the loans granted. It's a lie. What am I basing this on? On the documents of the New Ljubljana Bank. When you spoke these words in Parliament, these documents came from the New Ljubljana Bank because people can't listen to what you're saying, people can't listen to eclectic lies and they've given us documents that tell us otherwise, that last April the Ultra Group or Ultra Group asked for a reprogramme of loans, that is, they couldn't repay the existing loans, and I'll be very precise, Mr. Golobič, the document is from March or April last year, and then Ultra should return another 1.1 million 235 thousand EUR 186. This should be returned, the remainder in eight-month instalments due every 22nd month, the first next meal falls into payment 22. 3. 2009, the last one and the 22nd. Ten. 2009 Each of the meals is €150,000, the last of which is €185,000. Since the company was unable to pay for this, it applied for a reprogram. By the way, what did he ask for? She asked me to make 22. 3. 2009 instead of 150 grand only pays 50 grand to pay it back by 22. Seven. 2009, when it's $140,000, and lastly 22. Ten. 2009 is paid 615, this is a significant reprogram, the delay in payments for a later period of this. This reprogram has been approved. You said there was no reprogram and Ultra could pay. That's not true. This is the witness file. Not to speak or to read the balance sheet of the company that was the basis for this decision: loss, negative EBIT in 2006 and 2007. So, Mr. Golobich, bad, bad. That this reprogramme has been approved proves a re-letter or application for the re-programme of this re-programme. It was sent last August. Therefore, this reprogramme, which was approved, could not be paid and applied for a re-programme, and this re-programme should be the next. After this programme, the deadline for payments has moved until the end of the year, not until October last year, but until December last December. Of course, in this reprogram, the company wants it not to pay any more, I don't know, 50 thousand, but to pay 50 thousand euros until October and then to pay the remaining 785 thousand Euros and 3 hundred in December last year. The data that this reprogram, this second reprogram was confirmed, we don't have it, but I believe it was. This document, the second reprogramme requested, speaks of the current state and the current state is as requested by the first reprogramme, which means that the state in force was approved by the first reprogramme. Dear Mr. Golobič, Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, you lied in this National Assembly. You lied about none of the loans being reprogrammed. We have evidence of this, whether this evidence goes out of this house, because it is right for the Slovenian public to know the truth. One more thing. Controversial, I can't say it's a lie, but it's controversial. You claimed that none of the leaders, none of the owners took away any dividends from the company. I ask you how it is possible that these documents of the New Ljubljana Bank indicate that Mr Milos Urbanija has lent 1.3 million euros to the company. I don't know how and where the gentleman got that money if he didn't take any dividends from the company, did he earn that much, that kind of salary, or did he get the money out of the company in a different way? You know, these are things you have to explain to the Slovenian public when you're cheating and when you're actually lying. Because we probably don't deserve a minister who does it in Parliament. You believe that we don't have these papers and that we don't have "contra" evidence, but we get them because it's not about getting on my nerves or there's some personal stuff here, it's about whether the Minister of the Slovenian Government is a credible person to say what he's saying is true. That's the point. And it turns out that's not the case at least twice. The first case we all know and you repented when you deceived the Slovenian public with your property and silenced ownership in Ultra. The second time you deceived Parliament today that no loan was reprogrammed in Ultra, and I have papers from the New Ljubljana Bank proving that it was reprogrammed in the middle or in April of last year. So, I don't know what else to say in defense of the fact that the decisions of the New Ljubljana Bank have taken place with regard to your role in this company and in this company to bias, to deviate from normal dry-hot corrupt banking rules and principles, to apply this principle and the rule of your influence and your political power. If you were not satisfied with whoever sits at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank, it is likely that every sparrow on every Slovenian roof has already been made clear because you protested and achieved the resignation of Mr Veselinović, who, as he came politically, had to leave as well. So that you have an interest and ambition to influence and that you have a man at the head of this bank you have already proved and we also see why, because of all this, you also have some privilege that you would not otherwise have. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. If nothing else, today's meeting is one big added value for the whole matter. You've revealed a lot of details, you've encouraged people who have evidence that they've forwarded them to us, and we've shown you again that you're not telling the truth to a parliamentarian, to a parliamentarian. I think that this is actually a mockery of some credibility of the Government and democracy and I, the distinguished President of the Government, would ask you to at least take a deep look at Mr Golobič's magnography and statements today and at the credible documents that I will also hand over to you and create an image of what kind of minister is sitting in your government. If this had happened in the previous government, it would have been quite what happened at the time of the silence, but such a minister would no longer have sat down. Since I know that this is politically sensitive, that this is a coalition party that would probably leave the coalition, there would probably be, even the unloved consequences for the biggest ruling party, this has not happened, and it probably will not happen later. But when we talk about another minister sitting here today, there is no problem. No weeks, no days to think about it, nothing. Now or the same day, pok. Why? Of course, because it's agreed on in advance. I cannot believe that you did not align your actions with Mr Soltes before the press conference of the Court of Auditors was on the shortcomings of the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u120	Mr. Visjak, this is not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u121	Done. It is, however, a parallel example of different vats for the same thing. So if the roles of these same persons in this same composition of the government continue, we will witness untold cases. And the easiest thing, Sir Gregor Golobič, would be to explain these statements, which we have here today in the form of authentic bank documents, to provide us with different evidence and to tell us. "This holds and all else you have is a forgery, invented or maliciously used." And you haven't presented any documents to testify to the contrary. You haven't ruled out a single document that was on that day, that's six. 5. 2009 when these tables were rounded up by the public, published by the nationalist, claiming that these zeros were unwarrantedly written and submitted documents demarcating these zeros. So they're denying the inadequacy of insurance. I've never said that absolute truth is, which, I don't know, anyone in any anonymity. But I'm sure that's a reason to clarify. Surely this is some basis that someone else likes to at least try, contradict with some relevant paper. Unfortunately this was not the case, and we have therefore proposed amendments which bring the conclusions of the National Assembly back to the level and form and to the extent that they were proposed in the original reference. We think and believe that in this case there has been a biased decision in the approval of these credits and reprogrammes by the New Ljubljana Bank, a biased and therefore different from the dry bank rules, mainly due to the political weight and position of the key or one of the important, one of the key co-owners of this group. We are therefore convinced that this is still a solid element for customerism in this society and, of course, also the suspicion of corruption. If you'd like to deny it, you've had almost a year's time to deny it, but you haven't. This was not denied by the Bank or by the Bank of Slovenia, but even less by the Bank of Slovenia. Worse. The same bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which is now asking the Government for 250 million recapitalisations, does not want to explain these things to parliamentarians. He doesn't want to. He doesn't want to. The investigative commission led by my colleague Petan, who is supposed to investigate and have investigative powers, can get all the data, not get from the data bank, not get how individual credits are secured. You know, your honor, there's a devil in the details of credit insurance. We are interested because we are interested in the extent to which the loans are secured. Unfortunately, we don't have that information and we don't get it. And when the bank needs money, it comes to parliament, it says, "Boys, hell, we need money." And then I see that we all understand that we have to give the banks money. But when we ask them for an answer, how they deal with this money, we get a bit of information. Even worse, even from our key supervisory institution, which behaves sublimely like a peacock, we get nothing, no data. They say they are not competent to assess corruption, but at the same time they claim that corruption is not what Mr Kranjec claimed yesterday or before yesterday. So, in one breath, he says he's not responsible for something, and on the other hand, he insists he's not. There are more than too many mistakes here, the non-truths that have been said, and more than enough evidence to prove that this is an unacceptable practice that has occurred in this bank and that such things need to be sanctioned and restricted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u122	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, you've got 20 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Vizjak has been deceiving the public all day with a story about 21 million unsecured loans. He launched this eight months ago, and he'll have a chance in court to prove everything else he said. Good luck, Mr. Visac!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u125	Look, Andrej Vizjak has never and never claimed anything that doesn't appear in these documents. Today, I have asked the distinguished Minister of Golobic several times, perhaps at least five times, to deny these allegations and prove otherwise, he is committed by the company, and this was not the case. So who's deceiving and lying? I didn't use any fictitious data. I didn't use any fictitious data, but I only used the data I received, and I also wanted to check it out because I had to check it out. If the President of the Commission receives in hand a document showing that there are ‘first-class, appropriate and appropriate credit insurance provided to Ultra’ itself, it is said that there is no such insurance, it is necessary to clarify and investigate the matter. That's what we had to do. And we didn't fool anyone with it, but we made less accusations. And if anyone could prove that to be true, they would remain silent. To this day, no one has proved anything, no more, the bank has never rejected and rejected and denied this data, never. Never. Which proves they're right. Your Honor, even today, if I may sum it up, you have once again deceived this public. You said there was no reprogram, and I proved with the papers that there was a reprogram, with the papers of the New Ljubljana Bank, that there was a reprogram of credits. And when will you, I ask you in the end, stop deceiving the Slovenian public and lying to the Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a debate on the decision and on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments tabled. Both of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I conclude the debate because time has run out. We're done with this debate. I also told you about the amendments that we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, half an hour after the end of the 2nd agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - on the defence proposal for a decision in connection with "the third package of counter-crisis measures to improve economic and social situation in Slovenia: the fight against crisis is for new jobs." The proposal for a decision was submitted by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Janez Janša, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u127	Your Honor, Mr. President. President of the Government, ministers. The fight against the crisis is the fight for new jobs. This is the title of the material or third package of anti-crisis measures prepared by our Council of Experts and put them into the procedure through our Group of Members. This happened either because of the large absence of the initiative and also with great delays on the government side. I will not give any concrete information here on how many times the actions have already been announced and how many times the deadlines have been delayed and how still we do not have these key documents, because this is not the main problem. The main problem, in our view, is that there is a fundamental difference as to which direction the anti-crisis measures in Slovenia must go at this time. Now, as it says in the title itself, it's the third package. The first was proposed by the previous government in departure, the second by our parliamentary group and the expert council at the beginning of last year. At that time a number of measures were possible, which are no longer available today because time is running out. And because we have already discussed that package because the situation has changed at that time, and because there have been many of these repeated in public and by economic and economic organisations in the past year, and unfortunately not heard, we have not included in this third package proposals that have already been submitted to the procedure, and some have not been accepted in the form of legislative proposals. However, the fact that we do not repeat this does not mean that it is no longer up to date. In fact, some of the measures proposed last year would not mean anything because the situation is different, but some are still current and remain on our side with the offer on the table. As I said at the outset, the key problem at this time in Slovenia is that we differ in the direction in which we could effectively solve this crisis. And that also, except for a few discussions on working bodies and two meetings or, where we are dealing with it, there is no place for dialogue where these things would be coordinated. I also have 15 minutes to explain more than 70 of the measures that we have proposed today, which means I can't even list them and we can't discuss them in depth. The time for this was extremely limited for unreasonable reasons, although it is a key subject. I really don't know why it's necessary, and who benefits from it?Oh, my God! The characteristic of the direction advocated and practiced by the Government in dealing with the crisis is the following. First: passive waiting for our foreign partners to come back. Secondly: the focus of government policies and measures on bad companies and the neglect of good ones. Thirdly: an unsustainable shift in the burden of the crisis to the next generation, with a significant increase in indebtedness and a budgetary deficit for the country's current consumption. Then, the lack of linkage with climate change and, in most cases, the lack of sustainable development. At the same time, this view of the crisis is accompanied by Marxist co-operation that the crisis is proof of market economy failure and that it cannot go on anyway. By means of taxpayers, some kind of Marxist manifesto of the 21st century is produced, where it is wised about things that have been overrun by time since the previous century. The fact is that the current crisis in the world and, above all, in the European Union has demonstrated, above all, the great resilience of the social market economy. The very sociality of the market economy in Europe has prevented this crisis from manifesting itself so far in the dramatic increase in human poverty and depravity, as has been the case, for example, in the great economic crisis of the 1930s. In such a situation, the strategic response of less developed countries, where Slovenia still belongs, is dual. By investing in infrastructure and the standard of residents, it can also be possible during the crisis to reach a more developed environment and, on the other hand, it must allow the economy to restructure in a way that will also be competitive in time of ruin. At the beginning of 2010 we can find that none of these two have happened in Slovenia so far. During the crisis, Slovenia even increased its backlog for the developed countries of Europe. In the first eight months of 2009, the government increased spending by 10%. Although incomes were lower by 6.5% and were made by 16.5% scissors. This has also resulted in a record government deficit. Such an expansionary fiscal policy, in the face of the already mentioned record deficit, did not even mean state investment spending. We did not invest in any major projects that would bring anything, nor did we encourage private investment spending. In 2009, we recorded an excessive drop in gross domestic product, almost 9%. If Slovenia was characterised by an increase of more than 3 percentage points faster than the euro area countries during 2005, the gross domestic product in 2009 fell by more than that much faster. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in view of the budgets adopted for this year and next year, will obviously continue with such an inadequate fiscal policy, raises further concern. In one year, public debt increased to 32.6% of gross domestic product; in 2008 it was only 21.5%, representing more than 50% increase. The forecast for indebtedness in 2013 is 54% of gross domestic product, but this debt will be even higher if such financial policy continues. And with this, Slovenia is accelerating against the Greek script. It is also an interesting indicator of the economic climate. If Slovenia took fourth place among the European Union countries in August 2008 with more than 100 points, it is ranked on the 24th ranking in November of last year with 68 points. The European Union average is almost 90 points. Slovenia has lost most points in one year between all the countries of the European Union. This clearly shows that the economic and financial crisis has caused not only external factors, which are present in Slovenia as well as elsewhere, but also internal factors. In particular, government measures enabled companies to drill to return demand and improve time with it, not to strengthen their own and development products under their own brand, where they would not only passively wait for the demand for an old product or product to be renewed and whether their offer would be cheap enough, but would have a greater fate in their hands by restructuring. The Western market economies tended to significantly reduce costs and increase productivity during the crisis. In Slovenia, productivity even fell heavily. After this crisis, no matter how long it takes, it will not be the same as before, and some foreign buyers may actually come back, but some will not, because they will find a cheaper supplier. In the first year of the crisis in Slovenia, we have not used enough to change, in particular, the economy has not given signals, to adapt, not to restructure and alleviate, on the contrary, state policies have been geared towards preserving the existing state and, in order to preserve the existing state, we have committed ourselves to the account of future generations. It is therefore high time that such practice is discontinued. This document, which is therefore before us, proposes a strategic action. Given that the projected budget deficits in 2010 and 2011 pose a serious threat to the stability of public finances, we propose a legal limit to 46% of GDP for the wider sector in this year. However, with each coming year, expenditure is reduced by one percentage point in order to achieve a 43% share in 2013 of the country's wider sector expenditure in GDP. We are therefore proposing a real restriction. The one set by the Government is, of course, inappropriate, because the government has also limited expenditure, but limited it nominally. She narrowed it down. The government says that we will be able to spend a maximum of 10 billion, no matter how much it accumulates in the budget and depends on the economic situation. We're going to use 10 billion, no matter what our GDP is. Unlike the government, we say, we only consume 43% of GDP. If we create more, if this product is bigger, 43% will also be more money. If it's smaller, we'll be forced to spend less. But the government says, we'll spend 10 billion no matter how much we create. This is the difference between the percentage and the nominal criterion or anchor, by calling the nominal the stabilizer difficult. It therefore makes sense to limit the proportion and not nominally, as proposed by the Government. In order to achieve this strategic objective and at the same time to ensure new economic dynamics or growth and new jobs, we propose 72 additional individual measures in this package, namely 35 in the area of finance and economy, 16 in the areas of environment and space, and some interventions in agriculture, transport and health. We can draw their thin thread to the fact that the key to the exit from the economic crisis is in the hands of economic operators. This is an economic crisis, so the economic crisis must also begin to resolve. Entrepreneurs know better than the government where there are opportunities, where there are markets, market niches and how they need to be restructured. It is only necessary to allow the environment or conditions for this to be done. The biggest challenge in 2010 is to reverse the trend in the labour market from rising to falling unemployment. Politicians need to stimulate all forms of job creation more intensively than the preservation of the old. The new job is definitely more promising than the average old one by definition. Huge reserves are in self-employment and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are generally neglected by the Government. A man who doesn't work is dearest, both to himself and to the community. There are few countries in Europe where the financial sector would be as much under the ownership of the country as it is in Slovenia. It is therefore unacceptable that the Slovenian financial sector does not service the relevant economy, which, by the way, the Government also recognises. Through tax policy, the country has to help developing-innovation intensive companies, not companies competing with poorly paid workers because there is no prospect here. Government measures are mostly short-term measures; some more about them later because I still have some time to discuss between them, in these 15 minutes this was not possible. However, the long-term measures that the Government is also talking about are largely contained in a programme of economic and social reforms that exists, which has not been repealed, but is in some ways ignored and thus a lot of the work that has been put into this. We suggest that the Government look at this document for a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Matjaž Han, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 10th emergency session of 18. 1. 2010 as the mother labour body considered the proposal for a decision concerning the "Third package of anti-crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia", so-called "Fighting the crisis is the fight for new jobs", submitted by the SDS Group of First-signed José Tank to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments of the SD, Reale and LDS to the proposal for a decision on 1st and 2nd. At the meeting itself, two proposals for the amendment of the Committee were forwarded to the Committee, namely the proposal by Mr Bogdan Barovic to point 2 and the proposal by SDS Members to amend the draft decision in the same text as it was 12. 1. sent to the President of the National Assembly, which would include 45 points in the text of the proposal instead of two points. The meeting took place by means of a mag. Mr Vizjak presented the proposal for a decision as a representative of the applicants, and he presented in particular the most important proposals for action from the so-called third package. The following comments were made by the representatives of the Government to the third package from the point of view of individual departments, as the Government has not yet sent its opinion to the Committee before the meeting. Mag. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and European Affairs, commented in particular on the basic concept of the third package and made some concrete and detailed comments on some of the proposals for action, but concluded that he hoped that the debate at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly would be of good quality and would reveal the various possible elements of the concept of the exit strategy. A number of detailed comments were followed by Minister Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, Minister without a staff, State Secretary Darje Radic, Minister of State of the Ministry of Public Administration. Mr Sonja Bukovec and Secretary of State Dr Ivan Eržen, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health. All in turn stressed that the third SDS package has been seriously examined in government departments, and in particular presented a number of government activities and actions that have already been implemented, measures already under way, and measures that are in preparation. It was pointed out that, in view of the fact that many of the measures in the third package are already being implemented in government departments, and that they are not proposals that would bring something completely new. The representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service orally presented the opinions of the Service, stressing that their main comment concerns the type of proposal for an act to be adopted by the National Assembly for the consideration of the third package. The service considers that it would be appropriate to adopt a recommendation in place of a decision, which is defined in Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure as an act by which the National Assembly proposes measures for the work of the State authorities, in the present case the Government. He also presented comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on the amendments tabled and proposals for amendments to the Committee. The relatively large introductory part of the meeting was followed by a brief discussion on both points of the proposal for a decision and the amendments and proposals tabled for amendments to the Committee, in which the members of the Committee mainly discussed only amendments or amendments, including in the light of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee thus followed a warning on the type of act and adopted an amendment to the title by which it amended the decision into a recommendation. He also took into account the comments on the amendment of the SD, Zares and LDS groups, and the amendment by adopting its amendment also adequately "corrected" by deleting the text relating to the introduction of the Third Package to the National Assembly, as this was unnecessary. Despite comments by the Legislative and Legal Service on the SDS Members' proposal for amendments to the Committee, the Committee voted on this proposal but did not adopt it. The Committee also decided on other amendments and proposals for amendments to the Committee and its decisions are reflected in the report of the Committee. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the updated proposal for a recommendation, which is an integral part of this recommendation, is prepared. Finally, honourable Members, I would like today's debate to be constructive, just as it was on the Committee on the Economy itself, and together we will find those solutions that will bring the key to getting out of the problems it has in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u131	Dear Mr Vice President, the High House. Let's take a look at the introduction to the positive perspective. Undoubtedly, the purpose of the proposer and the government is the same. We both want to improve the position of the national economy in a competitive fight against others and improve the financial stability of our country. And we are both convinced that the burden of overcoming the crisis must not be passed entirely or unjustly on to people who are socially weaker. All these measures must, therefore, ensure the social cohesion of our society. The government is, therefore, ahead of the conclusion of the exit strategy, which is aimed at precisely these two objectives, and I should immediately reject one of the applicant's views that we are missing anything. Slovenia or the Slovenian Government was among the first to launch an exit strategy at European Union level and in the euro area. By adopting this strategy at the end of this month, the Government will present both a set of economic policy measures and longer-term structural changes, which together, while ensuring fiscal sustainability, will enhance the competitiveness of the economy and the creation of new jobs, i.e. the two objectives shared by this high house and the Government, while allowing for the greatest possible measure of social cohesion. This is not easy, it takes a lot of knowledge, a lot of political patience in social dialogue and, ultimately, determination and courage to accept certain things, although unpopular, in this high house. And when we accept them before we do, we also count on the support of those who advocate such proposals. Slovenia is, I must say this because of the fact that there are no wrong views in Slovenia's short history, Slovenia entered the crisis year 2008 with 1.8% of the public financial deficit. It exceeded 3% of gross domestic product in the last quarter of the same year, in 2008, in the economic year. 2008 - Conjunctural year, last quarter, 3%. Of course, the situation began to deteriorate at a time when the annual rate of economic growth was 3%. If we look at some of the other countries that we like to take for comparison, we find that they had had a crisis at the beginning; and I said in an inaugural speech that this government does not intend to compete in criticism, because there is no solution here to the possible wrong decisions of the previous one, as an excuse for its decisions. We have taken responsibility for running the country and will say what about the bad decisions of the previous government only as important as it is not to repeat the same mistakes. Nor do we claim that we do not now make them, that we do not take any action too late, and that what is not as powerful as we would like them to be. That is why we take this debate very seriously, and I say in advance that we will respect the decision of the National Assembly if it is accepted, that we will study very carefully what one of the parliamentary groups has prepared for us before our strategy is drawn up. At the end of 2009, Slovenia ended up with a government deficit of slightly below 6%. A lot. As far as I'm concerned, it's too much, even though there's a difference. Some Western European countries will also have similar deficits, those that have gone into a crisis situation better prepared than Slovenia. At the end of the recession, but not only at the end of the shrinking economic activity, which, I mean, is not the end of the crisis, but the recession is officially gone, but the crisis is, of course, continuing, so the question is whether Slovenia is in excessive public financial deficits or not. Let me be clear as President of the Government, this is my personal position, any public financial deficit that is not produced because it is invested, but because it also tries to maintain social sustainability, is unacceptable to me in the long term. But if we did not want, ladies and gentlemen to harm people who did not blame this crisis last year, we had to preserve some of the rights that helped them to make it easier for them to spend this time and prepare them with others to now make it easier, even socially and politically, to listen to our proposals that we are now going into some structural and other measures that will increase the competitiveness of our economy. I still stand for the basic decision of the Slovenian government. Last year was very important for maintaining social cohesion and we have undermined some dynamic balance in favour of solidarity. And this year we will be able to undermine this dynamic balance in the interests of competitiveness. And Slovenia will come out of this crisis stronger than it has been. As far as the deficit is concerned, without justifying this deficit, because it is not, personally not, and most of my colleagues are not. Look at the euro area. Is Slovenia an ugly duck of this euro area? It's not. It's not. There are other countries that have better prepared this strategy and have the same fiscal problems, some even larger. At the level of the European Council, it is even recalled that we should not go too fast with exit strategies so that we do not fall back into a situation where large fiscal injections are needed, because we simply have nowhere else to go so that we do not owe our citizens in the long term. We all agree more or less that everything needs to be done to bring the public deficit down to below 3%. And the government's goal is to make this happen by 2013. I think that the measures that you have proposed, which we propose, can also achieve this objective. In order to manage public finances, which, of course, will have a return positive impact on the economy, the proposalers consider it of particular importance to establish a fiscal rule. These fiscal rules are great in the world, and our government, without dying to remind me, was the first to introduce fiscal rules into the budget. We chose one, we could choose another, but we stand behind the one that we have chosen, and we believe that it will prove to be good in the medium term and that we will manage public finances with it. As a fiscal rule, the vast majority of those countries that have successfully managed to stabilise public finances and address the high deficit have applied the cap on the upward nominal growth of public finances for the year ahead - what we have done. The essence of such a rule is that it is able to be controlled and removed from it by the influence of the cycle. I think that last year the established fiscal rule is consistent, that there is no need to change it, although, as I said, I do not deny that it would be possible to cut down under any other fiscal rule. That even what was mentioned here may be useful, but let me remind you that we were the first government ever to introduce it and introduced it in order to reduce the budget deficit. Furthermore, the Government's public financial consolidation is an important medium-term task. To this end, the Government is putting an end to the work of the stability programme, which will clearly present both the public financial objectives and the ways in which we will achieve these objectives in the coming years, and together it represents an exit strategy. The proposal presented by the President of the largest opposition party does not contain an adequate treatment of the revenue and expenditure side of public finances. Because you did not attach a financial picture or calculation of your actions - if I am not mistaken, please correct me - we did. And if we did right, our calculations are as follows. Taking into account all the measures proposed to reduce tax burdens, government revenues at annual level would be lower than €1 billion and a half. However, the overall impact of reducing public financial expenditure and reducing public financial revenues would mean that in 2010 the public financial deficit would amount to at least 7.5%. If our calculations are correct - I didn't see yours, if I missed them, you will correct me - then this is the thing that we of course can't accept. Although we say that in a number of things we agree on measures and that a number of measures will also be covered. If we look at the structures in the proposed document, there are only two measures where the pressure on public spending is supposed to be reduced, this is a reduction in public sector wages and a reduction in pension contributions, with the latter having a direct impact on the revenue side. The weakness of proposals on tax burden reduction is not only about reducing tax sources, but also in a conceptual approach to tax policy. The basic logic of the last tax reform; and we largely supported it, it was at a time of conjunction, because we are not witches, we are poor, and none of us expected such a crisis as it did then on the world scene a few years later, we decided to make some changes that were conceptually consistent. The main logic of the last reform was the reduction of general tax rates and the administration of selective tax incentives. In the motions for documents, the opposition is now continuing with proposals for selective tax reliefs, while at the same time proposing further reductions in tax rates. We believe that this undermines a conceptual and consistent approach, and that this is not good. We, therefore, think of the Government here, do not see room for additional selective relief if we are to take seriously the reduction of social security contributions. The government will discuss this, but the measure will be decided on the basis of a thorough calculation of all the consequences and, of course, in the social dialogue, of course with the partners. I am pleased that the opposition too sees the need for structural change. I think we see them in three areas together as regards public spending: health, pensions, labour market reform. Despite the minor differences in measures, I see in this assurance that some will still be very ambitious - I can assure you - very difficult, even some unpopular measures, but here because of our responsibility for the future, our responsibility is greater than yours, but not least we are in the same boat, telling me that they will get support here in this high house. This is very important for the future of this country and for the optimism of our people. With regard to financial market measures, it should be pointed out that State intervention is mainly limited to times of crisis. The State will involve itself with its institutions mainly in parts that banks and other financial intermediaries do not carry out on the market in a way that would contribute to the development of the economy. To this end, the Government will simplify the functioning of the development financing institutions and will gradually increase the form of state aid in return. Since I, like the proposer, do not have much time available, I would like to remind myself of just a few things. We agree that the system of implementation of cohesion policy can be more effective, but I must also say something in my favour. That, last year, we made more inflows to the Slovenian budget at EUR 157 million, which is two and a half times higher than in 2006, when the net situation of the good EUR 60 million was worse. And I want to say one more thing before I finish because it seems important to me that there will be no misunderstandings about our courage to limit public spending, which I see as one of the most important goals and tasks of the government at this time. We saved or spent less on material costs and wages last year, worth €466 million. Don't let anyone here think it's an easy operation, but it's behind us. So the exit strategies we've been working on in time, it's going to be very ambitious. We welcome the opposition's ambition to participate in its final preparations, at your desks the government proposal will come in February. This will essentially be a set of laws that will significantly change the current economic and social life. We want to make a more competitive economy while maintaining social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The current economic and financial crisis, which has affected the whole world and not only Slovenia, should also be assessed by assessing economic indicators at least in Europe and by comparing them, of course, with similar indicators for us. In this assessment, I will use the assessment given by Umar in his publication Economic Mirror issued in December 2009. After death, short-term economic performance indicators in Europe confirm the slow recovery of the European economy. This movement is not stable as after a few months of growth in industrial production, this declined again in October 2009. The decline in the value of construction works carried out continues. It is encouraging, however, that the trust indicators of various institutions are still improving and some have already reached levels before the crisis begins, although the assessment of the current situation in most indicators remains poor. As a result of the crisis, the state of public finances in most Member States of the European Union deteriorated considerably in 2009. Negative movements are also expected to continue in 2010. According to European Commission forecasts, the European Union average deficit will increase from 5.2% to 7.5% of gross social product in the period 2008-2010. Debt from the state sector, from almost 20% of the points to 80% of GDP. These assessments, however, strongly exceed the Maastricht criteria of the euro area when we are talking about the financial stability of a country. And what is the situation in Slovenia? According to the UMAR assessment, economic performance indicators are slightly improving in most activities. With the improvement in the situation in the main trading partners, the figures increased by one percent for the month of October. Unfortunately, industrial production after growth in the third quarter decreases by 3.6% in October. It is, however, encouraging that, contrary to industrial production, the value of the construction works carried out, which has risen after months of decline, should be increased. Data on other activities also indicate a slight improvement. This does not mean that the crisis is over and that it will only be better in the future. Unfortunately, these economic indicators continue to increase the number of registered unemployed and at the end of December 2009 there were 96,672, which was higher by 37,369 workers than in September 2008 when the number of unemployed was smaller, by 37,369 workers or by a good 38%. Unemployment has already increased in the last quarter of 2009, and all the signs of the economic and financial crisis have been revealed, which many, mainly because of internal political conditions and elections, refused to recognise. On the contrary. The then ruling political group wondered what crisis? What is the recession, since it is still economic growth, despite the decline that occurred at the time?Oh, my God! The public deficit will, according to OMAR's autumn forecasts, be minus 7.3%, roughly the EU average, and the country's debt will increase to 34.2% of GDP in 2009, which is unfortunately 12.3% more than it was in 2008, but much less than in the EU. And it has also increased by fewer percentage points than the average of the European Union. Why all this information? In particular, in order to clearly demonstrate our position, the situation of Slovenia in the European Union, and to reject the the thesis of the proposers of this point, as they point out in their material, that due to the absence of initiatives and large delays on the government side, a package of anti-crisis measures should be adopted, as a rule within one month. Are governments and ministries really just waiting for what will happen in the European Union?Oh, my God! If that were true, today unemployment would be stronger than 130 000 workers or even more, public finances would exceed 50% of GDP and public budget deficits would probably be over 10% of GDP. The government has been active and has taken several measures to ensure a fairly stable business and maintain public finances by covering all commitments and at the same time providing additional funds for social transfers, investments and, in particular, R & D. This could only be done by allowing the measures to be timely and to an appropriate extent. Despite the fact that the legacy of the previous government, in particular through measures taken and increased public spending, public sector pay reform, some school ratings and a reduction in tax revenues, the abolition of wage taxes, increased relief, was not good. The current government is taking such counter-crisis measures that have tried to substantially balance the social note with measures to increase the competitiveness of businesses. In addition, as you yourself state, it has adopted an indevelopmental and wrongly prepared budget for 2009, which it has consequently experienced with a rebalancing. I believe that this year, mainly because of the tremendous increase in the number of unemployed, this social note has been at the forefront. And that is also the hallmark of this government, the governments in which the Social Democrats, together with the coalition partners, lead by the President of the Social Democrats, have a great responsibility for social justice. It is true, however, that we have not adopted the opposition's proposals over the past year, which, if I make it a little easier, had only one objective in their content, and this is a significant reduction in revenue to the state budget. The adoption of certain such proposals could have serious implications for the stability of public finances. The material we have accepted has a good title, "Fighting the crisis is fighting for new jobs" and could be won. I agree that the way out of the crisis is to maintain and create new jobs that will have more added value than before the crisis. But what has this government done in the past year? Has it not proposed measures to maintain workers in a semi-active working relationship with working organisations, taken up an important part of the education costs of those when technological and production updates were carried out in the working organisation in small and medium-sized enterprises and were later able to return to production? Knowledge acquired by a worker over the decades in some production can be invaluable. We probably agree that it is not expected that the restructuring of the company will mean that we will open a bakery of pastries tomorrow, where we had a foundry of heavy metals. Both productions really need a furnace, but I can't imagine how the Founders would bake cops. Unfortunately, in the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, the material entitled "Third package of anti-crisis measures" does not fully follow the basic objective, and this is how to achieve new jobs in the fight against the crisis. The package of anti-crisis measures does not mention how many new jobs will ultimately bring about such a policy. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, we need to tackle this crisis through a number of measures, in various areas. In the past year, the main measures have been measures that have mitigated the consequences of the economic and social crisis by helping all those most affected by the measures in the social field in particular. We have in mind all the measures proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs; not to mention many. Therefore, the number of unemployed did not rise to 150 thousand or more. Many who have worked 36 or 32 hours a week or have been on hold and training are already working full - time in those jobs or similar jobs for which they have been requalified while waiting for work. However, the second package of measures is that, through State resources, both non-refundable and favourable loans, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and through guarantee schemes for loans aimed at restructuring companies and financing production, we will allow for both technological renewal and production alone. Both measures have been implemented since the economic and financial crisis. There may have been a slightly greater emphasis in the past on mitigating the social crisis, so a few more resources and measures will be needed this year in particular to promote economic competitiveness and technological modernisation. Both measures are in fact short-term but need to be focused on the future. The next set of measures should be aimed at stabilising public finances, with the aim of achieving below 3% of GDP by 2012 at the latest. This measure actually started with the adoption of budgets for 2010 and 2011, when a fiscal rule was established to determine the level of expenditure of the integrated budget. Our common commitment must be that the expenditure of the integrated budget will not increase more than €9 billion. This rule allows the projected total public finances expenditure from 48.3% of GDP in 2010 to fall to 42.7% of GDP in 2013. At the same time, we will reach a deficit of 2.9% of GDP in 2012, which is below 3%. The measures proposed by the SDS in this area do not need to be taken, as we have adopted budgets for 2010 and 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013, which comply with these criteria. There is no good link between revenue and expenditure, as we can be tempted to increase spending as a result of increased revenue. Such a projection of the adjustment of public finances is designed taking into account the AMAR forecast that GDP will grow by 2010 per cent and 2.2% in 2011. If growth increases, the deficit can be reduced sooner. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposes a package to reduce tax burdens on the economy and on natural persons. From the point of view of the economy and also of wage recipients, where the proposal to reduce the payment of contributions or to increase the general tax relief is particularly welcome, these are proposals. However, from the point of view of public finances, such proposals are unacceptable. According to the government's assessment, the revenue in the budget would fall by around € 1.6 billion. The proposer of these allowances does not in any way say how he will also reduce expenditure. Is that possible the concern of this government when we take away all her resources? The reduction of certain social protection rights or subsidies to promote growth and economic development is not as attractive and is not good for potential voters. When proposing a reduction in social security contributions by two percentage points, while limiting the pension rate of contributions, do they know what they are proposing? If the applicant had in mind the social security contributions paid by the worker from his gross salary, this would mean that only this title would result in assigned cash such as pension funds, health care, employment of a total of 10 % less. However, the measures do not indicate how to increase revenue from other titles or reduce expenditure. However, it is possible to reduce expenditure in such a way as to avoid paying such pensions and to reduce the level and standard of health insurance and services in this area. However, with unaltered standards, you can increase the public financial deficit by around 7.5%, or even more, and this is also more than is foreseen in the adopted budgetary memoranda. Of course, this deficit would not be reduced in the coming years, as it is proposed to stabilise public finances. In this part of the SDS proposal, counter-crisis measures are not consistent and cannot be as proposed. However, some measures have already been adopted in 2009 to reduce tax burdens and the effects of tax burdens have already been taken into account in the programme budget and, in particular, in the case of revenue. The measures proposed in the area of the financial system and insurance are based on incorrect assumptions. We may be similar in thinking that the guarantee scheme has not produced all the expected results for both the economy and natural persons, but not in the assumption that the guarantee scheme is ineffective, administratively complex and slow and that its establishment has been delayed. This assessment does not indicate a single fact that would also underpin such a thesis. The data on the implementation of the business guarantee scheme are somehow different. Up to and including 21. 12. On the basis of six tenders, the banks granted a total of 353 loans totalling EUR 534,6 million to companies. The guarantee in the Republic of Slovenia for these loans totals EUR 184.8 million. The Republic of Slovenia guarantees an average of 34.6% of the approved principals of credit. Under the Guarantee Scheme Act, sufficient resources are still available and the guarantee scheme continues until the end of 2010. More than a third of all approved loans guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia were approved by the Bank, Vipa 118 loans totalling 180 million, followed by Nova Ljubljanska banka - 89 loans totalling 126 million euros and the third place reached by Nova Kreditna banka Maribor with 54 loans totalling 103 million euros. A total of 10 banks participated in the tenders, but the sums of the other banks are much lower. During this time, SID has also provided around €2 billion of credit to develop and promote the economy. Therefore, it is not possible to find the problem of the credit crunch in that the guarantee scheme and the SID bank are not working. In particular, problems need to be addressed in over-indebted both the economy and the conditions for obtaining loans secured through the State guarantee through the guarantee scheme are very acute. Almost everyone we've determined is a tycoon, or we've narrowed his wages and other benefits. It is probably right that we made restrictions where this was immoral or illegal. However, it was not well received and this is true for everyone and everywhere, so, of course, some have started looking for credits beyond the borders of Slovenia. According to Banka Slovenije from the Bulletin - Slovenia's economic relations with foreign countries, October 2009, in the gross external debt table, it is possible to understand that Slovenia was indebted in December 2004 - for 15.34 billion euros and December 2008 - for 39.24 billion euros. So 150 percent more or two and a half times more than it was at a time when economic growth was extremely large and, of course, incomes were very good. October 2009, according to the same data table, Slovenia's indebtedness - EUR 40,052 billion or for good 2% more, despite the crisis and despite the recession that was at that time. It is true that the structure of the debt has changed significantly. The state sector was in charge of 2.27 billion euros in December 2004, 3.73 billion euros in December 2008 and 6.68 billion euros in October 2009. This is, of course, a debt that the state has made to maintain both public finances and social sustainability. In December 2004, banks had an external debt of 4.85 billion, December 2008 of 17.88 billion and October 2009 of 16.83 billion, or even slightly less than it was. Banks have already paid their debts abroad. And it is also important that the other sector, which, of course, was in December, I am talking about the economy and the economy, which in December 2004 was in charge of 8.18 billion euros, December 1008 for 13.87 billion euros or 70% more and 1.7 times more than in 2004. In October 2009, the debt of the other sector decreased by 13.69 billion euros or by a good percentage less, which means that the activity of the economy in this credit area was slightly lower because it did not have anything else to cover. It is clear from the Bank of Slovenia data that the total external debt has increased slightly, by a good 2%, but the debt structure has changed, i.e. the debt of the State and the monetary authorities has increased and the debt of banks and other creditors has decreased. The failure to implement the guarantee scheme should also be sought in order to reduce the quality of the insurance required by banks to grant loans over the share secured by the State guarantee. Nevertheless, the banking sector in Slovenia is quite stable because according to Banka Slovenije it has only 2.2% of investments that could be called bad or risky claims. Banks can manage these investments with their money instruments, so it is certainly not necessary to set up a bad bank at this point. However, we can certainly support the thinking within the Group of Members to make public administration more efficient, more user-friendly and even cheaper, but certainly not in a way that we can generalise rationalisation at 2% cost reductions every year. Public administration is large and will also need to adopt systemic solutions that will allow the administration to become more friendly and efficient in the long term. In the SDS proposals, we are missing long-term structural changes without changes in the pension system, the long-term care system, the healthcare system and education systems at all levels will be short-term measures that will stabilise public finances in the short term, but will not be sustainable in the long term and will need to be adapted to their needs at all times. As we know, the Government is preparing such changes, which are sometimes already under attack, even though they are not yet in the procedure or are just thinking about changes. Long-term structural changes, as well as institutional changes in the governance of public institutions and public administrations and changes in transport and energy structure and effective environmental and climate policy, must be an integral part of a comprehensive exit strategy to be implemented by 2013 or 2014. Without that, there is no way out of the crisis. The Group of Social Democrats estimates that it is not possible to say at a flat rate that thinking on the way to fight the crisis proposed by the SDS Group is completely unacceptable. Several of the measures proposed are already being implemented, some will probably need to be changed and made even more effective. Indeed, some measures are totally unacceptable because they have a strong impact on public cash registers and are inconsistent. Reducing resources in these areas could also result in non-selective reductions in social protection rights and standards in this area. The Borut Pahor government, through the measures it is implementing in the area of economic stabilisation and assistance, is good at managing social policy through competitiveness policy and the policy of a developmental innovative economy, despite tight financial conditions. This government has a hearing for the worker and, above all, for the one who lost his job in this crisis. She doesn't care if there's a bankruptcy. But if bankruptcy is the start of something new, something that has a new perspective, it makes sense to end the so-called death on meals, and on sound foundations to set up a new, promising production programme that will have greater added value and will not just be a "lon" business for someone who will end such work as soon as there is no longer enough profits. I hope that, when we adopt the Slovenian exit strategy, which must be comprehensive, we will be wise enough to take such measures as will aim to get out of the crisis with an updated economy based on technological reconstruction and workers who will receive at least such wages as will cover the minimum cost of survival, including with the support of the opposition in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u135	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the government, as many of you as are still here, welcome! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have prepared a third package of anti-crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia due to the absence of initiatives and major delays by the Government in proposing measures to get out of the crisis in Slovenia. The opposition has played a constructive role here instead of criticising that there is nothing, and has joined in this large number of economic operators, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, which all in the order of the Government see the slowness, irresponsibility and inadequacy of anti-crisis measures. Of course, we joined this with suggestions. The proposals also covered to a large extent the economic proposals. In fact, we believe that economic operators know much, probably more than the Government, how to deal with the challenges of the crisis and how to act, how to move the economy across the board, to relieve the economy of creating jobs and also to solve the social problem in our country. Slovenia, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, had expected a relatively well-prepared crisis, contrary to the Government's position. Let me tell you why. All macroeconomic data from that period, i.e. the periods when the crisis broke down, showed a significant improvement in the public financial picture. Two consecutive years were the public financial surplus, 2007 and 2008. Public debt in the gross domestic product also decreased to 21.5%. We had a record low unemployment rate, less than 60,000 -- by the way, the mandate of the previous government started with 90,000 unemployed, and so we reduced them to poor 60,000. We were in very intense economic growth, companies had development plans, ideas and initiatives. At that time, companies expected a positive signal from the country, i.e. a signal that their activity was desirable, welcome and that, with the help of the state, they would continue to pursue these development ambitions. None of this happened. The country was ratting and there was no action and there was no action. Then we followed the government's pianist actions, when it spoke, we would propose the first package of measures, and the second package of measures, which was not yet, but I don't know, great measures and even measures, but whatever was already proposed, even by the Government for the decommissioning of the economy, was either too late and bureaucraticly so complicated that it still cannot be implemented effectively today. Therefore, I believe that the Slovenian Democratic Party was doing the right thing when it has already proposed measures in the past to get out of the crisis, measures for the moment at which we were at that time. Therefore, the current third package of measures is also aimed at the situation we are in and the key challenge of the situation we are in is the fight for new jobs. Perhaps a fight for new quality or quality jobs. That is why we have also focused most of the measures on achieving this objective. And we see quality jobs where they are created, not where money is spent. Therefore, we propose that they be created in the economy and that they be discontinued in a state administration or where money is relatively inextricably spent. And here, Prime Minister, I hope that this financial account of these measures is listening to me as well. We propose at the annual level about €360 million of tax burdens on the economy and just about as much savings in spending state or public administration. It's from the material that's visible. If anyone would like to calculate this, I can structure it by individual taxes, and also by public administration, this financial account is made and I just said it. Thus it is not true and we reject that we have not been engaged and that we have not presented the financial balance sheet of these measures. In the past, the government has also put in place some good measures, especially those dealing with the problem of people and businesses who have lost their jobs at times. It was subsidized either by waiting for work at home or full - time work. These measures are useful and could represent an extremely effective supplement, complementing measures to increase economic activity and decommission the economy. However, there were no other measures. And this is a key observation, which is a red thread of these proposals, which I will then put down something. Unfortunately, it is not enough time to list all the measures, but I believe that colleagues, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, will further underline them in their discussions. At the start of the crisis, we were also told by the rulings that we must and that we can take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity, as a challenge, as something that will change Slovenia in the direction of knowledge-based society, towards economic restructuring, to an economy with greater productivity, greater added value and greater technological complexity. Unfortunately, the government's actions so far have not been able to detect any movement in this direction, let alone effects in nature. We are therefore following through these measures also the introduction and implementation of this approach. In Slovenia, after the crisis, it will no longer be as it was. And it's right that it's better and not worse. But it will be better on the basis of the objectives that we are pointing out: that we will have an economy with greater added value, which will provide higher wages and consequently higher pensions. This is the goal - the goal is to improve the quality of life. If I went through those measures, I would first go to the area of public finances. Initially, the principle has been proposed to limit the expenditure of the wider sector of the country already this year to 46% of gross domestic product and to reduce this spending or expenditure of the wider sector of the country by one percentage point every year and to 43% of gross domestic product in 2013. The government is advocating some constant nominal anchor, so that we can spend about 10.5 billion, no matter how much we create. Look, it would probably be easy for any farmer to explain that he can spend as much as he can create, not as much as he nominally asked to spend in one year. So that he can bind his spending to what he has created. And I really don't understand why this principle would be more wasteful than the principle now advocated by the government. The government principle is more wasteful. Look at the data for 2010. In 2010, revenue in the state budget will be around €8.6 or €8.7 billion, and expenditure will be € 10.5 billion. And we're talking about a deficit in percent of gross domestic product. It would be more correct to say that there is about 20% deficit. 20% of the deficit is from the title, so it's less created than it's spent. 20% is disproportion. This means about as it is in one family that sums up its income to spend 20% more than it creates in one year. Where's he taking this? It leads to increasing debt and burdening some future generations, probably not future generations, because this will have to be repaid very quickly. Public debt is increasing enormously and government materials are incorrect to the generations to come and to the upcoming taxpayers because it imposes a disproportionate burden on them and at the same time threatens them with an extension of their working age. The burdens on the start will be such that they will have difficulty lifting them down. And when the government talks about an unenviable inherited situation, I'd say the following. If Slovenia expected this crisis in charge of the Maastricht, i.e. the ceiling of 60% of gross domestic product, and there would be no room for this debt, which is now being accelerated, then they would not be able to afford such spending budgets as we have adopted for 2010 and 2011. Because it wouldn't be "sppage," because there wouldn't be an extra possibility of borrowing. However, since you have "fucked" the country with about 21% of the debt, of course this span will be throughout the entire mandate and the ease of ruling throughout the mandate. Of course it is, respectable, if you spend two billion more than you create! It's a relief that you can afford, but you've read it to us before. I don't know how to better explain this strong fiscal rule that we want to introduce to stabilise public finances. Instead of the financial minister who should be the key guardian of the stability of public finances, he said, "thank you for suggesting this to me because I don't hope for myself because I have too many greedy ministers," he attacked, saying that most countries do it differently. In the area of public finances, we also propose some other measures. One of the most important is the substantive reform and administrative simplification of the guarantee scheme. I would not list the problems of birthing and, of course, the implementation of the business guarantee scheme, this is a scheme whereby companies can obtain guarantees for leased loans for operation and development. There are too many complications here, and that's why we're proposing a series of simplifications. And it is very important, we are proposing a direct guarantee of the country mainly for development research projects and for small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't know why agents should be involved, but even state-owned agents who collect commissions and additional bureaucraticly complicate and auction loans that are then available to even small and medium-sized enterprises. We propose the establishment of a so-called bad bank. Why? It is more than obvious that poor investments in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and probably in which they also weaken and prevent some normal service of this bank to businesses. Because of poor investment, due to the risks associated with these poor investments, they do not, of course, dare to lend to healthy economic projects. We suggest that these poor investments go to a bad bank. For the first time, this will clear up some balance sheets, and it will also become more transparent about what these bad investments are. The government is probably resisting this because it is also concealing certain bad investments to certain nearby companies. Therefore, we believe that this bad bank is one appropriate way to avoid initiatives such as these recently, if the New Ljubljana Bank wants two hundred and fifty million recapitalisations, very little of us should be interested in why. Give us the money to recover if you want us to service the economy. That's unacceptable, Your Honor. I think we're going to have to put bills down here and tell them whether we're rehabilitating this bank again because of the bad plasma or, of course, there's something else in the middle. We are also proposing an important measure in this financial area, namely the merger of supplementary and compulsory health insurance, because they are both already mandatory. The supplementary health insurance provided by mutual, Adriatic, Slovenian and Triglav insurance companies is no longer voluntary, depending on their content and prevalence. The border between voluntary and compulsory has completely disappeared, and the matter has been totally born. She's even connected to a lot of affairs. Remember only the affairs of mutual and leadership with the Porsche at the head. It is more than obvious that it would be right to make order here and end these intransigences and, finally, put the insured at the forefront. The proposals are very important in the area of liquidity. We propose to reduce the country's payment deadlines to 15 days and also to establish effective mechanisms for introducing payment discipline, especially in the context of the reform of enforcement law. The first phase was successfully and effectively implemented. It is necessary to step into a second phase and many entrepreneurs are staring and shouting at how important it is to establish payment discipline in the country. Payments are getting longer, payment discipline is getting richer, and it is finally necessary to make order. I don't know the government's actions to go this way to ensure greater payment discipline. Let me mention the European funds here. It was mentioned in the introduction by the Prime Minister that the country was successful and interesting here, that it stated a year in which the country almost had no invitation to tender, last year, did not have a call for proposals, but the efficiency of European funds increased dramatically. Isn't that interesting? Without invitations to tender, they increased the use of European funds. Of course they did. Since there were no invitations to tender, there were no expenditure, but the revenue from the claim for reimbursement was based on previous calls for proposals and the completion of projects in 2009. We expect the country to speed up the use of European funds. Look at the bear with the call for regional development. The 5th call for more than 300 million euros to be allocated to the municipalities, with which municipalities are expected to centralise the infrastructure, has brought together a number of projects to hire a number of economic operators, suppliers that could have a significant impact on the problems we face in this crisis. But no, this invitation to tender is not and is not. As far as we can tell, the end of this month is about to come, and he's about to introduce some new bureaucracy and complication. For the first time so far, it will require that projects to be applied for be equipped with a legal building permit. However, in order for a legal building permit to be obtained, the applicant must, of course, have and own land. So far, however, this call for the development of the region has taken account of up to 10% of the costs of land acquisition and someone could not have a legal building permit if they did not have land. Previously, the projects were such that it could also include this land in eligible costs, and the subsequent ones would no longer be possible because it would have to have a building permit and would have to buy the land earlier and, of course, it would no longer be able to apply it as a reasonable cost. And this will further complicate and complicate the procedures and the application of these calls. Why? What for? Do you want people not to apply for invitations and that the municipalities do not receive these funds and that the funds remain in the accounts? And that's done, practically in the middle of a financial perspective. I have mentioned this as a diversion and we will very, very carefully monitor the way this call is implemented and also draw European funds in the future. Instead of the well-negotiated financial perspective 2007, 2013, which gave Slovenia virtually 5 billion resources, as an important lever to deal with the crisis, it is said that huge funds that could employ the Slovenian economy, which could affect the implementation of some of the strategic development projects we need, are now no longer needed. However, if there are any calls, let's say a typical example is for centres of excellence, but they are awarded to a narrow circle of elite companies or also institutions from Ljubljana, and in fact most applicants are left without these funds, despite good projects. If we are on these calls before I go to the tax system too, I would stress one of the most important differences between the concept of the government and the concept of these anti-crisis measures. We would like to ensure that the money remains with businesses through the tax burdens. To enable companies under the same conditions to use this money for development projects. The government, however, sees a way to collect money and control it through tenders to those whom it thinks it is right to get it. And then, of course, the procedures are drawn, the bureaucracy is rich, the chosen ones get the money. I hope you understand what the fundamental difference between these concepts is. We want a slightly weaker country in this crisis period and a stronger economy. We leave money to the economy, leave an economy that knows what is perspective for it and where it will spread and develop to manage it, so we tax it, give it tax incentives for investment in equipment and for research and development. No, the government says, we take the money and we distribute it to the economy according to our criteria. This is going to take a while, of course. This is going to cost. A number of consulting firms will be avenging because they will be doing projects for the economy, as the economy does not normally have time to deal with calls for tenders. There will be one delay, for as long as the call and the funds that come to the company take from six months to a year. But if we go according to the principle of tax relief, that's an immediate step. No red tape. And companies are freer and easier to manage by the means they have earned and their employees. This, Your Honor, is one of the fundamental conceptual differences that we propose that the Government rejects. And it's not true that we don't differ significantly. We're very different. One more thing, Your Honor. I, too, believe that the basis of democracy in the country is how much money the country is willing to give to people and the economy. Less willing to release it, the less democratic the country is, the more money is willing to let go and the more fragile and efficient the country, the more democracy is. Here you can also see your concept of conduct through these principles and approaches. What do we suggest? We propose to increase tax relief and to lower the corporate tax rate by three percentage points in three years, to be 19% this year, in 2011 18% and in 2012 17%. We propose 40% tax relief in fixed assets. We propose 100% tax relief for research and development. We are proposing tax holidays for newly established companies. What does that mean? This means that certain new businesses would be granted, I don't know, in one to three years of tax exemption and this would certainly encourage some entrepreneurial activity and, finally, probably also reduce the grey economy a little bit. Those who are doing so today would also be able to take legal action as a result of these tax breaks. We also want to improve the rate of depreciation, which means that more money will remain for companies under this heading and that it will be bolder to invest. We also want to simplify the procedures to prove relief and relief. Respectable when talking about reliefs, these reliefs refer to companies that can be put in place in the first place. These are companies that generate more than they spend, which have positive balance sheets. Only those companies are able to employ and create something new, and therefore the forecasts of the financial consequences of these measures are significantly lower than the Government forecast on the basis of old data on revenue collected from taxes. As a result, I am very surprised by these estimates of billions of losses from our proposed actions. It is very important that we not only want to relieve the economy financially and taxfully, but also want to relieve it administratively. We're proposing a whole bunch of electronic transitions. For example: electronic commerce, contracting and the implementation of e-accounts - very important, trend and important activity in the European Union, not to mention electronic archives for all documentation and all businesses. As far as reporting businesses to state institutions is concerned, it is funny how much more unnecessary paperwork is needed. In fact, I am sorry that the projects to relieve the economy at the Ministry of Public Administration have been quite slow. Energy is also important. All Slovenian energy policy has focused, unfortunately, on only one project - the project of updating the Termoelectrica Šostanj. I think that the country should invest much more and more in the efficient use of energy, in reducing the energy intensity of the Slovenian industry and in renewable energy sources. And interestingly, it is indeed interesting that investments in renewable energy sources have stalled and investments in coal technologies are being accelerated. And I really want to know why. We therefore propose in the SDS one strategic reflection, one re-financial, energy and environmental verification of the projects. There are also a number of measures in the labour market, although I must say that the Government has now been among the more effective, given all the other areas, but here we have a lot of ideas on how, through flexicurity measures, how to improve the effectiveness of active employment policies and how, with greater transparency and not least, control over the granting of passive forms of assistance to unemployed people significantly. It is very important to propose, both in the economic field and in the labour market, the tax burden of all salaries up to €600 net. What does that mean? This means that the requirement of the unions for EUR 600 net compensation for the minimum wage is realistic if the country is also willing to contribute something and taxly relieve wages to this level. Then it will also be easier to ask employers to do so. Public administration measures are also very important. We want to reduce the number of employees by 2% at the annual level, which would reduce the cost of salaries at the annual level by about €70 million. We believe that other savings on job cuts would also make it important to reduce public spending in this area. I believe that this could be done quite correctly in order for the state to finally, in the role of manager, determine once which business functions it no longer needs or does not need to be in the range it now has. In order to identify new human resources plans on this basis and consequently reduce the number of employees. This can be done and added to the efficiency of the country. Those who are more or less overweight today, after various ministries, offices and so forth, are likely to make work difficult for those who have work. And it would certainly be in the public sector, in complete conditions, that is to say after five years to save around EUR 300 million at the annual level, after this transitional period. And here are the sources from which we would take these tax exemptions and this decommissioning of the economy that we are mentioning. As far as e-government is concerned, Slovenia slipped from 2nd to 5th place. Otherwise, this is still a good classification, but what we did not continue with good e-government projects, which would reduce the pressure on employment and probably also the costs of public administration. So this is where it went backwards, and it's bad that it did. Anti-crisis measures are still in transport, environment, agriculture, etc. And see, in the face of the current problems we have with Slovenian railways, the government predicts that it will first solve Slovenian railways from these accumulated problems to modernise them, does not tell how much tax money it will cost, and will eventually privatise them. That's what they say. We're gonna "screw it up" and then sell it. Wrong. I think we need to find a partner for the Slovenian Railways to get him together, because in a joint effort it is also easier to succeed and, finally, it is cheaper. Many, many government forecasts, for example, I will count three of them on Slovenian railways, in energy, just waiting for the Minister of Finance to come to Parliament with a guarantee for a few hundred million, probably 600 million credit for Block 6, and, of course, the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Hundreds and hundreds of millions for the recovery of something that we'll have nothing to gain from. Instead of looking for solutions, last but not least in the integration of public-private partnerships and in the search for some strategic, long-term links that can make life easier for these economic operators in the long run. I believe that because of some under-appreciative relationship, the Government has very carefully read these measures so that they are also such conclusions, since most of us are already doing so, you copied them from us. We'll see. If you are doing much of this, then these measures will be implemented within one month or more. We will see if they are implemented or whether any of the results of these measures have been applied. However, I think that you have taken the matter too undervalued, waved it with your hand and said that we are not going to reject it all on the average for the first time, because it has paid us politically poorly, but we will be a little more lenient to all of this, but the effect will ultimately be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Lojze Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, Minister! In the Group of Members, we have really studied the third package of anti-crisis proposals, measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia, entitled Combating the Crisis, very carefully, as we are aware of the importance of any good and effective and, above all, feasible proposal of measures that would contribute to the resolution of this serious crisis. We are very pleased that the third package of proposals proposed by the opposition SDS has also been well examined by the Government, which was very well reflected in the debate of the Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretaries at the Committee on the Economy this week. For each individual opposition proposal has also been assessed: appropriateness, acceptability, both the possibility of implementation according to the current situation, financial capacity and other capabilities. In the Group, we really support and look forward to any good and effective proposal for action given either by political parties, civil initiatives, the professional public, associations or individuals. All for a simple reason, because more heads know. In doing so, however, we note that this proposal and the production of a number of new proposals for measures must not become a competition for the likeness and support of those most necessary for the effects of these anti-crisis measures, i.e. the whole economy and all citizens and citizens. In the Group of Ambassadors, we are truly aware of the fact that the one who fell off the deck into the troubled sea is completely concerned about whether John, Borut, Andrej or Janez Novak throws him out of Ljubljana. And for this poor man in the troubled sea, the worst will be when those mentioned begin to argue with someone, when, how, how, and how, this lifeline will be thrown away. Therefore, when we carefully examine the third package of proposals for anti-crisis measures proposed by the opposition SDS, we are not convinced that their intentions are as well-intentioned as those of the proponents themselves. This could also be compared to charity. He who truly wants to help does so and does not put himself in the public eye. Under this logic, the opposition could simply forward all these numerous proposals to the government as a help in finding solutions to study them, select the most primary ones and include them in its work. However, not that these proposals are being tabled in procedures, but that they are addressed in committees and in regular and extraordinary meetings. This means that there is a need for the presence of secretaries, ministers and that Members and Members also deal with this. In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that this communication, which has apparently been established between the opposition and some in the ministries, is very good. Many of the measures proposed in this package are those that the Government has written down and have even begun to implement. This suggests good communication, which is sometimes harmful. It is harmful in those cases where individual proposals or ideas for proposals for action come to the media and the public before they are fully designed and adopted by a specific minister or government. And then, as is known, ministers have a lot of problems and it takes a lot of time to calm down the excitement for something that is not necessary at all. Today, too, a very large number of proposals, 72 or only 45 of the conclusions proposed by the Committee on the Economy and tabled today as an amendment to the opposition SDS, are a number that is likely to arouse respect and hope that some of them will surely be caught and helped. However, our assessment is, as well as an assessment by some experts, that in addition to some really good proposals there are some that are mutually exclusive or not theoretically perfected and some that are even harmful, so if they were introduced, in a package, for the country and society as a whole, they would have completely harmful consequences. In the Group of Members, we really believe that even some of the proponents themselves, here I think of the former President of the Government or former Minister of Economy, do not believe in the possibility and feasibility of these measures themselves. If we were certain of this, some of these measures would certainly have been carried out in the previous term, within their mandate, when the economy was in a truly unique condition and when the situation in society was significantly better than it is today. Therefore, we do not fully believe in the well-intentionedness of the opposition SDS in the Group of Members, as it also does not contribute to public awareness of the whole and all the causes of this global crisis, and that even as an opposition it would contribute significantly more to the willingness of all to participate in the resolution of these problems and in particular to the impact of optimism on the economy in companies, the public sector and, in particular, citizens and citizens, since we are all still in need of some healthy measures of optimism. Repeating and accusing the government of being the sole culprit for the crisis, not working, not trying to find and make the best decisions, is unfair and unfair. Even today, we have heard such a dramatic and critical introduction that some of us expected only that the appointed person will eventually turn off the light in this beautiful Slovenia. We are also in the parliamentary group on our own, or sometimes dissatisfied with the way or the pace of solving a problem in the Government and with individual ministers and ministers or Prime Minister of the Government. However, we are convinced that in these difficult conditions and difficult situations they are doing their best because they are aware of the responsibilities they have assumed in the elections and that there is no simple magic recipe for getting out of the crisis. In this regard, it is particularly important to point out that in this negative assessment of the work of the current Government of the opposition and, above all, the SDS shows incorrect and unilateral data, and in particular does not take into account the extremely poor legacy left behind by the previous government. There are many cases that could be cited in support of this claim, but only one case was raised by the Prime Minister himself. Slovenia entered the crisis in 2008 with 1.8% of the government deficit and in the last quarter of 2008 for 3 wholes and some percentage deficits, at a time when economic growth was still more than 3%. Compared to Finland, this has entered the crisis with a 4% government surplus. And we all know that today both countries have about the same deficit, 5.7% to 6% of the points. We are convinced that, with a common effort to solve the problems and find a way out of the crisis and fight for new jobs, we must all contribute in our best interests, and therefore the proposals we make are truly well-intentioned. I repeat, in addition to some of the really good proposals that are in this package of measures by the opposition SDS or the applicants, and certainly for well-intentioned, correct and useful proposals, as well as feasible, we cannot count the measures that are such that we are almost unable to believe that they are written. If I just count one of these. For example, the proposal that within one month the Government prepare amendments and additions to as many as 17 system laws, namely public finances, pension legislation, tax legislation and other very complex and difficult laws. For example, it requires or proposes that within one month the Government prepare a law on the establishment of a bad bank, without taking into account all the necessary prior stages, without taking into account that the same objectives can be achieved with the existing existing instruments and that, for example, it is proposed that revenue in the budget be drastically reduced, estimated by expert estimates to be around €1.5 billion, without a possible reduction in expenditure being identified. For example, an immediate linear reduction in public sector costs is proposed, says education, health care, pensioners, which would have inconceivable or virtually impossible under the current legislation and situation. Or, for example, that an immediate payment of COP funds is required, agricultural environmental policies are carried out, even though I am convinced that the proposer of such a measure must also know that this is explicitly prohibited by law. Your Honor! We therefore support the conclusions of the Committee on the Economy in the Group of Members, and we are confident that the Government will include in its programme and implementation all those good proposals that are also feasible. We regret, however, that some of these really good proposals, effective and feasible, are drowned among those who are unthinkable, insurmountable, mutually exclusive and therefore particularly populist. Such proposals are not genuine proposals to seek a way out of the crisis, but are aimed at some other objectives of the opposition SDS. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we really hope and wish that some politicians will only realize that the exploitation of this severe crisis for daily purposes can have great consequences for the country. That is why it is necessary and must unite forces and knowledge and together find the way out of this great crisis. But certainly meeting in extraordinary parliamentary sessions is not the right way to look for a way out. The way out of the crisis is primarily the task and responsibility of the government and of all, including the opposition, to cooperate properly and constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u138	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have a third set of crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia, prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In any event, such proposals for anti-crisis measures should be understood in a well-intentioned and positive manner, regardless of which way they are proposed. Especially now that we prefer to talk a lot about problems that concern only the government and the government coalition, about problems that Slovenia and the Slovenians are not interested in, because their solutions and these solutions do not actually provide any assurance that people will get or at least keep their jobs and at least keep people alive. This is also what we are witnessing today when we were talking at point 1 about a topic which, I think, is second-rate, but we were a lot more in the hall than this time, when, in my opinion, there would have to be at least a lot more of us. If we are trying to summarize briefly last year, we see that it has been shaped by one fact, i.e. the global financial and economic crisis. This crisis has caused great consequences, unfortunately also in the Slovenian economy and in Slovenian public finances. Looking at the result of this crisis, we see that in the third quarter of last year we had a 8.3 per cent real decline in GDP. The situation in the labour market has also deteriorated and will worsen, with the delay of course. In November we reached 10.1 percent of registered unemployment, which is more than 95,000 unemployed people. The budget deficit is expected to reach 5.1%. This year, however, we expect economic growth, which is not expected to exceed one percentage point. Nor is the situation in the labour market supposed to improve. Even an increase in unemployment to the number of 120,000 unemployed is expected. In the Slovenian People's Party, at the time of the adoption of the first rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009, we drew attention to the fact that there is an extremely high and dangerous public financial deficit which increases the risk and risk premiums when accessing funds in international monetary markets. A key problem facing policy in the next period will be how to reduce public spending and how to allocate available public funds in order to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness and economic growth. Let us see how the government has undertaken its first tasks, i.e. reducing the volume of public spending. I think it's bad. Public administration, we have said this several times, must share the fate of the Slovenian economy, whether we like it or not. It is a menacing finding that public spending from the budget to the budget is increasing. This is, in our opinion, unacceptable and irresponsible. That is also why we have recently called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a budget rebalancing for 2010 and 2011. The law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis that we have dealt with in this house a while ago is also very clear. It is unacceptable that, at the time of the country's increased spending, public administrations try to save on the account of the socially weakest layers, such as savings in children's allowances, child care allowances, and not to mention, there is a lot of this. Even at the expense of young families and children. If, with a little goodwill, much greater resources could be saved in other areas of spending, particularly, I would stress once again the state administration and its apparatus. In this context, let me also touch on the European funds or money that Slovenia has available from the European budget. Unfortunately, despite your unforgivable criticism of the failure to draw on European funds under Minister Zhagar, we can only find one thing. There's nothing going on under your tactics in this area. There's no calls. I'm just wondering how we're going to make use of the funds that lie on our tray in front of us. For example, in June 2009, it was announced that the 5th public tender on the use of development funds would be announced. Today, the beginning of 2010 is around €290 million out of about 600, because they are not distributed or there is no call or call for them. During her four years, the former government with Minister Zhagar made six calls. 2 from the previous period and 4 calls for 2007-2013 and thus allocate around EUR 300 million. Well, it's been around for over a year and, as I said, there's no fifth call. Worse. In fact, projects are halted and the problem that arises is that they will not be realized in the way that development projects were set up. With this call, ladies and gentlemen, we can re-engage, of course, quite a few jobs in an area where unemployment is the largest, where the most funds are allocated to the least developed areas and the least developed regions under this heading, of course. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the Slovenian economy needs to be financially burdened, including wage relief, and in this way, for the first time, to increase the competitiveness of the economy, and secondly, to improve wages and not only minimum wages, which is certainly a priority, but also others. In particular, we have in mind the salary of a highly educated creative staff, which carries the most important part of ensuring innovation, progress and development and which may also be the vehicle of the technological breakthrough of our society. Once again, without decommissioning the economy on the one hand and reducing public consumption on the other hand, we do not see any way out of the financial and economic crisis. The basic philosophy of any programme or package of measures to come out of the economic crisis should be to reduce the public financial deficit and the two measures that I have referred to before. Above all, this should be based on the expenditure side of public finances, i.e. on reducing spending. And here's the story of saving from flowers and coffee. It will be necessary to systematically start to reduce the amount of expenditure the largest part of which represents public sector wages and transfers, which is unfortunately lacking in the relevant political will, has not been and will not be more than obvious in the future. It is, of course, drastic measures, or, as the President of the Government has told them, large-scale ones, which we have put aside for politicians until the last time there is no other way out. I am thinking of the structural and public financial reforms announced several times by the President of the Government. We started talking about them in the summers at one of the development conferences, when we warned the Slovenian People's Party that it was necessary to act in parallel in two directions, namely, with measures to alleviate the crisis immediately and with the necessary structural reforms on the other. While the first somehow managed to produce, in short, when the first measures were somehow managed to produce, although in our view they were not all the most effective, some already, others, so structural reforms, unfortunately not yet. I would like to point out that we support the necessary structural reforms, and as I have said several times before, we are also willing to participate in them. We call, of course, on the distinguished President of the Government to assume the responsibility that has been favoured by the electorate and the electorate, and also voted in the National Assembly, and to take the tactic into his own hands. Such or other groups of ministers and others obviously do not produce the right results or unfortunately do not. However, I look forward to the future of what the Prime Minister of the Government has also said that the coalition will also listen to the opposition's proposals. There's not much time for jokes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u141	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague. It is certain that the opposition plays its part, as they prove a number of initiatives and proposals for laws and other acts that it puts into the legislative procedure. One such act is also now under consideration the third package of anti-crisis measures. Such activity, according to the DeSUS Group, is more than welcome, especially at a time when more active action is needed to address the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, the consequences of which are felt and suffered by the whole of Slovenia. It is also certain that the ruling coalition is working to overcome these consequences, we assess, extremely successfully and effectively, even taking into account the unfavourable situations and circumstances that fuel this crisis. That is why we Members of the DeSUS, any proposal that could potentially help bring about a faster and more effective exit from this crisis, are following extremely seriously. However, the consequences of the crisis are felt by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is up to us to examine such proposals and finally assess whether a proposal is effective, realistic and feasible. Although there are certain suggestions, even those we now have on the table are extremely good, of course also attractive, and unfortunately they are not feasible. Several proposals, which are realistic and worth further examinations, can be excluded from this third pact of anti-crisis measures. However, the package also contains measures that are by no means feasible and realistic. For example, tax measures are, of course, tax breaks, higher tax reliefs and a type of tax exemptions, not taking into account the capacity of state Treasury, the extremely positive measures that DeSUS Members would like to attach. However, the available public funds, the sustainability of the public treasury and the expected growth of the economy in the coming years must also be taken into account here. It is simple to propose such measures, and it is much harder to actually implement them. However, as has already been said, some of these proposals are valid and valuable, further examination and analysis in the direction of an evaluation of actual feasibility. It should also be said that some of the proposed measures are already specifically included in the draft laws. So they are already in the implementation phase, for example, tax relief, minimum wages. Others are already substantively included in the so-called exit strategy, while others are certainly worth a thorough analysis and assessment. In principle, we do not oppose DeSUS's members, because we consider it unhealthy and unconstructive simply to reject proposals coming from the opposition. We will therefore unanimously support the proposed decision, make these proposals to the government if they are not already in the implementation phase, carefully examined and, on this basis, prepared appropriate proposals for acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am a little embarrassed because we have adopted a decision at the parental committee meeting to have the government study the so-called third package of crisis measures, the fight against the crisis, the fight for new jobs. The second decision, which referred to the fact that the individual laws proposed, 45 or the measures proposed and which are good to include in their programme or to initiate a procedure for us to adopt these laws, was not adopted. In fact, we are today, if we're looking at a no-communal here, because the government has already done it. At yesterday's meeting, the government has been very careful, at least as it appears from the report, to teach, to assess that some of these measures are already being implemented, that some of them are not achieving their goal or objective, and six of them seem to me to agree in part or in part. I think in this case the story is over. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we also had to look for ourselves where we are and how we can help, except of course that we are Members of the National Assembly and it is our duty to adopt all those laws as quickly as possible, in the shortest possible time that will help to get out of the crisis. Well, despite this somewhat strange status of this extraordinary meeting, we will also be allowed to draw attention to some shortcomings in the Slovenian National Party and to help as best we can. There's no point in mentioning statistics, because we all know them well. It must be said that there is a very strong and present credit crisis or debt crisis we have already discussed in the first part. We can only point out that there will be a large demand for credit in international markets, financial markets this year. And, of course, it will result from increased debt prices and the uprooting of individual groups of debtors with lower ratings. Slovenia currently has a good rating and is in danger of losing this good rating due to its smallness. Therefore, we propose that, as debt is likely to be needed, debt should be made in markets where all European countries will be optimally able to do so very quickly. Undoubtedly, we all agree, regardless of political colours, that a drastic programme to reduce the public financial deficit is needed. It is necessary and has absolutely no alternative. Although Slovenia has entered the crisis with a good public financial situation, it has suffered a deterioration due to a reduction in revenues, higher expenditure related to unemployment and the measures taken by the State to mitigate the crisis, which, of course, have also produced worse results. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose the next solution that together we need to find a way to change anti-crisis measures – more resources are needed to increase competitiveness and unfortunately - which is painful but there is no other way out - less money will have to be shared to finance reduced working time and similar measures. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask and ask why the Government has two documents: one is the exit strategy, the exit strategy and the other is the stability programme. We know the formal answer, the exit strategy is the one we write for ourselves, and the stability programme is the one we have to write down because that is what Europe requires. We believe that this should be one document, short, clear, with essential measures. We estimate that two documents written differently for different users are a mistake. We must be aware that we now have two billion deficits, that we have only four years of time to reduce the deficit by 1.2 billion, which means 300 million each year. Three hundred million this year, second year, 2012 and 2013. How do you do that? In the Slovenian National Party we see three contents, three elements: first, public sector salaries and other transfers and third material costs and investments. He pays in the public sector. A very unpopular measure, but we have two options: either lower wages, but we are not in favour of that, we are in favour of increasing wages at some point, but we will have to reduce the number of recipients. In the case of transfers, we know that the biggest rakrana is, unfortunately, a pension cash register, so pension reform will be necessary if it is painful. With regard to material costs and investments, let me mention that we must avoid delays in time for some of the good measures already taken by the Government and to take as many measures as possible to be financed by European money. In the case of public sector wages, let us draw attention to the error we are making in parallel. We are looking for solutions here, but we are increasing the number of municipalities in parallel and we are preparing for regionalisation. Why is this a big mistake? These two don't go together. Let me just mention that the cost of 112 municipalities per year is 2 billion euros. 20% of this money is just about the work of the congregations. However, at least 100 million more a year is planned for the operations of the provinces. This is fiscally unsustainable and impossible, and it is a shame to deal with these two contents if we are dealing with a solution to this crisis at the same time. And that's it. We support that measure between the fifty-five, which speaks of the establishment of so-called bad banks because the recapitalisation of our bank, the largest bank in Slovenia, the largest state bank, the most powerful bank, is precisely due to the poor loans and poor investments that this bank has made abroad, and that is a fact. Why did this happen? This is where we all have to go with the ashes. No government has done anything for its largest bank, the most powerful bank, since 1990. To this day, when we are in such financial troubles, we have finally woken up and realized the value of this bank. The worst thing we fear in the Slovenian National Party is that it is necessary to fear the deterioration of the country's credit rating. As a result, there will be more costly access to other financial markets, an increase in interest and the result will be an uncontrollable public financial crisis. Of course, that's not what anyone wants. We take the proposed measures in the Slovenian National Party as well-meaning aid, while respecting the government's vision and discretionary rights, which knows how to get out of the crisis, which has its vision, which, of course as Members, we will have to support and support, and I am expressing only a little concerned that all the measures proposed are not weak and may have been reviewed too quickly and rejected too quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u144	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Greetings to the Minister, the Minister, the Secretary of State and all of you. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we look forward to discussing and looking for a way out of the crisis and are inclined to do so, especially if this is sincere, not political or political, given the modest presence of representatives of those who have proposed these measures, but, of course, for a sincere purpose, I seriously doubt. It is clear to all of us that Slovenia, like the vast majority of the world, was affected by the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, which later moved to the real sector and today, that is what we are worried about, is also becoming more and more a social crisis. In the face of the crisis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken several measures. The first measures were primarily aimed at stabilising the financial sector through guarantee schemes, borrowing of the SID of the bank, guarantee schemes for crediting businesses and guarantee schemes for natural persons. Through these measures, the first aim was to remedy the credit crunches created and to ensure the liquidity of our public financial system. In order to accelerate the start-up of the economy, new or increased funds have been introduced on existing instruments to promote investment, first in technological equipment, then also in significant amounts of funds for technological equipment and development, including guarantees, interest rate subsidies, for small and medium-sized enterprises and also for other important purposes. It also promoted training and education for employees, strengthened social entrepreneurship, increased youth employability and improved staff mobility. The next important area of anti-crisis measures was measures aimed primarily at mitigating the consequences of the labour market and social crisis, where we have taken measures to protect the most vulnerable social groups and there are certainly not many of them, nor in this Chamber, which would not have stated that these measures were effective, necessary and beneficial. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the Government has responded to the crisis in substance, but we can certainly do more to speed up the preparation of the measures and more importantly for the effectiveness of the measures alone. That is probably what we could do with a better financial allocation and structure of measures, but as always, after the battle it can be a good general. However, something else has proved to be true in the past year, which we see in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is an even greater problem and a greater danger. In view of the strong structural problems facing Slovenia, particularly in the area of competitiveness of our economy, during this period until the visit. The fact has been exposed that much of the economy is mainly based on poorly paid production, that there is not enough of those breakthrough companies that create new, increased value added. There is certainly much work to be done in this area, but unfortunately there are no simple, simple answers. We therefore estimate that Slovenia today has, in particular, structural problems that have accumulated for decades, and therefore there are no short-term and magical solutions. Therefore, it is certainly not the solution of the crowd of material and financially largely unrelated measures. At first glance, we can commend the opposition party's efforts to prepare a set of measures to address the crisis, but after a little deeper analysis, we find that this is the sum of the measures that this country is already implementing. Secondly, it is a copy of the measures that are in the stage of intensive preparation and close presentation. Thirdly, these are measures that are likeable, which we all explicitly support, but which are either short-term fiscally insufferable or otherwise insurmountable. In the grave it is a package of measures that touch on all essential areas of the development of Slovenia. In our humble opinion, however, the biggest flaw in the package of measures is this excessive amount of action, we are doing something everywhere, and nowhere concrete and effective. Thus, in our view, the package does not work as a whole and certain measures are even contradictory. Like, say, on the one hand, reducing employment compared to a measure that would strengthen employment services and thus increase employment in this part of the public sector, which represents a high cost. On the other hand, it is popular to reduce the tax burden against increasing the country's investment in large projects and so on. A serious, responsible and every normal country derives money from taxes, excise duties and elsewhere, and not counting on it to win the lottery. It is therefore necessary to be realistic in the planning of both revenue and expenditure, on the other hand. This uncoordinated crowd of measures in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is also in some way clear that there is no analysis of the effects, first of all individual measures, and then the overall impact of all the measures that are interlinked in nature and are supposed to form a coherent, effective whole. Finally, these measures, as would be appropriate for an effective and decent document, do not have a calculation of the financial implications of these measures on public finances, and this seems to us to be an important, crucial part of the story. Most importantly, most of these measures do not show the way or the way to implement them. For this is what is most difficult and what the government has been dealing with for a long time. That, in truth, is not an easy task. This is what the whole world is working to develop, all of Europe, most of the world's countries, but an effective, uniform response, unfortunately, no one has yet found. In some ways, it is also easy to draw up as many measures as possible, which on the one hand require a reduction in public expenditure and in the same breath require an increase in the spending of the country. This can be afforded by the opposition for its political purposes, but certainly not by Slovenia for its development. And this is in the context of these developmental discussions, which are strategically important, in our view, extremely irresponsible. As can be seen from the Government's assessment, the total number of measures proposed by the applicants would be at least €1.5 billion of government revenue. I repeat that EUR 1.5 billion is a hole, which would mean a 7.5% deficit in gross social product in 2010, 7.3% in 2011, taking into account even the only measure proposed to reduce expenditure. Unlike the opposition, however, the government and the parliamentary coalition must act in a serious, sober and responsible manner by definition. We must work hard and prepare measures that are publicly sustainable and, above all, realistic and also feasible. In Slovenia we have so far had all too many strategies, visions and similar planning, such or other documents, which unfortunately have not been operationally feasible or have never come to life in practice. This weight on the side of these measures between wishes and reality must now finally be shifted to the side of measures that are realistic and practical. On the other hand, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we welcome the objectives, which are reflected in the materials of the proponents. These objectives are certainly common to all of us: economic recovery on the one hand, job growth, labour market modernisation and similar macroeconomic and social objectives. As marriage solutions and measures by the Government will go this way, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we expect to find a common way here, in this area, with the opposition, to improve, upgrade and certainly without the fig tree in the National Assembly. However, the proposed package is as positive as the set of measures to be examined and selectively integrated into the exit strategy, particularly those not yet implemented in practice and not included in the strategy and thus planned for implementation. Finally, the proposed palette, a broad range of measures from a professional and reasonable point of view, is also the only way to understand and to support the work of this story. We also expect the opposition's support in terms of reducing public spending, where we think we should start talking at a completely different end than usual. Certainly we can no longer talk in general about the reduction of wages or employees, but about the collapse of inefficient programmes and projects, which can in fact result in the rationalisation of public administration and consequently public spending. It is time for us in Slovenia to acknowledge that at this time we are not in any way financed by such a wide range of public services and goods. Of course, under one assumption, which we most often find obvious, that if we do not take these measures to our throats, we will owe the generations that are coming. And this is the topic of discussion, debate and this is the area, a field for finding solutions that have broad support and broad consensus. We just can't eat any more than we can produce and create. The debts that allow us to do so must be kept in mind every moment and clearly aware of them, to seek funds, goals and ways to pay them as well. That is why, in connection with the exit strategy and the crisis measures, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the most important thing in Slovenia right now is to define - how. Under one: reduce public spending in the short term by reducing or abolishing ineffective programmes. Put your hands on your heart. We got one of those, too. Ensure the reduction of current and future threatening unemployment, which is becoming an increasingly pressing social and social problem. We want to include among the most important medium-term measures: to modernise the labour market to stimulate the economy, to defuse it taxly and to make it more competitive in particular. To answer the important question of how to adapt the model of the social state and how to target social assistance in order to create as much work as possible, but not that social transfers will be difficult to break through from month to month. And last but not least, in the long run, we have all the major structural reforms, especially here we always have in mind and in the first step, pension reform and health reform. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore expect and firmly believe that the exit strategy will contain all of these mentioned, highlighted and highlighted elements and will represent a set of selectively selected and interconnected, in particular coordinated actions that will represent a coherently linked whole. Finally, we need to continue to monitor the effects of these measures so that, in co-existence with the objective of implementing from the backdrop of the crisis and achieving the desired long-term goals that we all have in the Republic of Slovenia, together with good wishes, positive thinking in this Parliament together, with the aim of making Slovenia better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u146	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. Madam Minister Krebs spoke first. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u147	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! If there is still a positive position on the committee - at least from my mouth - to the proponents of these measures to be carefully examined - and we have examined them in a short time and have found that it is a copy of the measures we are already implementing - after today's debate, it is undeniably clear that it is a matter of pure politics and misleading the Slovenian public from this dedicated place, which I will then be able to prove in concrete cases the proposals for your actions and our activities. However, there was an extremely correct debate by Mr Barovic, which I would like to explain only the following: the documents currently being prepared by the Government, namely the stability programme and the exit strategy, are not all documents for themselves and their own use, but are closely linked. For this reason, [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm sorry, I'm not Mr. Gregor Golobich. And please, Mr Vice President, allow me to discuss this on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u148	You have the floor, Mrs. Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much, but Members of the SDS are deconcentrating me with their calls. These two documents are being prepared in parallel, and it is extremely difficult to achieve the stability of public finances, bearing in mind that 80% of the integrated budget resources are related to the legal rights and expectations of our citizens so that these rights are not reduced. And that only a billion of all these funds can be designed for development, which the proponents should know after a four-year rule. And that the calculation of the reduction of government revenue by 1.5 billion is by such an easy debate as we have witnessed today, by no means works out. There's no way out. And the Slovenian public must know this, unless we reduce the rights, as Mr Barovic correctly stated, of the important recipients of transfers, these are children's dockets, unemployment funds, social assistance, transfers to the pension register, which alone cannot be fully maintained, so that we support it every year with integrated budget resources. 30% of the budget is for these purposes; 30% is for public sector employees who, by the way, show the following data from international research. The share of employees in public sector activities, i.e. all working in the field of health, social, education and public administration, according to employees, in relation to all employees in the Member States of the European Union, in 1997-2007, shows that the share of employees in Slovenia in 2007 is significant under the average of the 27 Member States of the European Union, and even more so with regard to the average of the old Member States, the EU 15, whose standard and scope of services we are following as policies and, of course, our citizens also want. The highest percentage is the share of employees in education activities. And you know where we are? We are second in the public administration from the 27 Member States of the European Union to the least employed in public administration. We are in education in the 8th place after the least employed who carry out educational processes. In the field of health and social protection, however, in the 6th place after the least employed since the 27th. When you propose a measure to reduce the number of employees, I will let you know the following. However, for the resources they spend, we spend in the public sector, they are meant to work in these sectors, and they are higher than in the Member States of the European Union. Which means we have too much to pay for these organizations if you want. So, we're above average, and by the number of employees, we're below. And when you said or now advise this government to reduce the number of employees in the previous term, you did not take these objective indicators into account, which means that waiting lines in our health care are also due to the lack of employees in this sector. And, of course, it must also be confirmed. Or doctors need such an orderly pay system, where they can achieve the basic salary once again by on-call and so on, but it is a question to which you did not answer when you set up such a system. We have to solve harder, and we're going to solve it. But not to tell us that we are not solving inherited problems because we are solving them, not only as you said we are passively waiting, but from the first day forward. So the number of employees is not a problem, the problem is the structure of wages. In the area of wages, the amount of money to be paid for salaries in 2009 and 2010 is EUR 500 million in crisis years. We will not pay that much because we have not waited passively, but we have started intensive negotiations with the social partners to stop the growth of wages. You've been keeping an eye on this process. At some point, you wanted some of this to work. However, long-term talks have produced a result which means the freezing of the volume of wages in the public sector as a whole. You waited passively in November, when you could have stopped the payment of the second abolition of salary imbalances already in 2009, because it was not possible to agree to an end on 1 January 2009. Thus, wages grew 6% in 2009, and in 2010 they would grow on the basis of an agreement, but would grow without our action 12% and 11% in 2010 and will not grow more than 3% on the basis of an agreement. And here to report passivity and non-action in wage policy is purely misleading to the Slovenian public. The expectations of public officials and the unrealised salary reform that you could fully finance in 2008 in view of the four-year negotiations. I don't know why you didn't. The dynamics of eliminating wage imbalances were a promise: 500 million employees will be received, in 2008 very little, large and most in 2009 and 2010, when we may no longer be in power. And that's exactly what happened. This generates in a significant part an increase in public sector wages. For significantly more than you are proposing a reduction in the number of employees at annual level across the public sector. Saving 77 million euros in wages, which is today, by the measures we carried out, gross gross 4 billion euros, you know what it means. It does not mean any significant public financial impact. However, if we were to implement your promised wages, we would now spend €4.5 billion in 2010 because you promised that, regardless of the macroeconomic situation, the pay reform would be completed in 2010. So much for responsible conduct. The entry in the collective agreement between your government and the public-sector trade unions was: regardless of the macroeconomic situation, wage reform must be definitively implemented by 2010 at the latest. So 500 million should be paid in 2010. Any reading of the government's passivity, of its non-action, is purely misleading. Mr Vizjak said: "I am sorry, the projects for decommissioning the MJU economy have been completely lagging behind in the area of eGovernment." We have given you an answer that is very clear, and it is right that some of this is known by people. We replied to you: only one project was during your term of office, that is to say [[I am talking about projects that are inter-resortically successfully upgraded]] . Nevertheless, the analysis of the state of e-commerce in the Republic of Slovenia, which we have done to prepare strategic plans for the future, has shown a lack of coordination in this area in the past, as none of the other projects that today require priority treatment has been implemented and set up in addition to the e-accounts, e-archives and so on. We've been pawning all these e-projects today since the beginning because they weren't even set up. In 2009, a single contact point should be implemented on the basis of the Service Directive, which was the main mission of the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. Now, together with the Ministry of Economy, we are preparing an action plan to make up for the backlog so that we can establish this single point of contact for the implementation of the service directive, i.e. e-business, an insight into foreign companies, what conditions must be met in the Republic of Slovenia so that they can register activities with us. Having reviewed what the Minister of Economy can clearly say, we have found that in the past we have managed to regulate, say, bureaucracy, perhaps needlessly, 250 professions, activities and so on in Slovenia; the average in the Member States of the European Union is 100 and less. So that this project should be alive in 2009, it did not have the financial resources to support e-commerce or legal bases to begin with. In the document you sent us, you copied an action plan that we, the Ministry of Public Administration, together with the Ministry of Labour, prepared in the mandate of the previous government and presented it to the public. So you're telling us that we need to eliminate the backlogs in e-socialism, which is also a project that is nowhere to be found. This must enable the central database, relevant social transfers, the applicant's income, to be moved. e-social system all in one place, etc. [[...]] That's what we're doing. The action plan was confirmed at the government, but we started off with nothing. The Ministry of Labour will draw up a single remuneration law, and the Ministry of Public Administration will prepare an information and technology platform in cooperation, step by step. Nor was the tolar of European funds for this project, including for a single point of contact, where we are already late and we can even be punished by the European Commission. So much for the inactiveness of the current government in the area of e-services and so much about the readiness of the projects that you read out to us in your regulation as a backlog. You know very well if within four years one project could be developed, this was an e-mail that it was extremely difficult projects. 52 databases are involved in the e-social project, i.e. 52 experts in this project, so that in 2011, we hope that it will start working if we all do our homework every day on the basis of the action plan. And you say in this paper: sleep, carry on what we started. We have started, with the exception of e-mails, and we are also upgrading e-mails so that entrepreneurs and economists of this M1 and the other forms where employees report, can arrange this electronically. This will be an upgrade to this project. Also the publication of the job. These are all the activities that this year, despite the fact that we are dealing with austerity measures that have been more than successful, I hope to say this with certainty, even though you do not acknowledge this, we are doing all of this. So: do not mislead the Slovenian public. In the area of removing administrative barriers, Mr Vizjak also said that it is absolutely necessary, or in your proposal, to say that we must simplify the procedures in the field of environment and space without delay. Please, in 2005, you prepared this ambition to amend the law on the regulation of premises and the law on the construction of buildings. Probably with the same ambition: debirocratise, speed up procedures, etc. And you did, didn't you? At least in one area, I am sure that you are the procedure that was drawn in the mandate of the Drnovška government, this is the notification of a part for simple objects, as a decision issued by an administrative unit, which I insisted at the time as a Member that the procedure is not necessary, because no one in Europe has it and because we do not identify these simple objects within the framework of the geodetic administration as an object; it is not in the public interest that the staff involved are conducting these procedures. In 2005, this procedure was reintroduced and you reintroduced a higher number of employees in the work of the Environment and Space Departments in administrative units. And now you're giving us the brains to improve these procedures quickly. Such uncertainty in the legal field, as a result of reckless interference with legislation, is of course not good for our legal entities, nor for our citizens. With full responsibility in this place, I can say that the measures you have proposed, at least for our area, are mostly copied from our action programmes. And because they are such, and because you make them manifest to us, even though we answer you that they do not hold it, they are not well-intentioned again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Janša spoke on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. We have not proposed these measures in order to argue with the Government. We are now facing a situation where the opposition is proposing concrete constructive measures and the government is criticising them as if they were still in the previous mandate. If it was so bad and so good in e-government, I don't know why the European Commission put Slovenia in second place in 2008 and last year in fifth place. You really have to make a lot of progress to get thrown back in three places. The key measure we are proposing is a gradual, unfeeling reduction in public sector wage funds by 2% per year over the next five years or roughly adjusted to this reduction in the number of employees by 2% per year in the public sector. This can be achieved more or less in a painful way, as this is also the case in this sector when people retire or leave for other services. For the last time on the Committee on the Economy which addressed these measures, and even now it has been indirectly said that this is a radical measure and that savings are negligible here. Savings are not negligible. That's 70 million a year. After five years of reaching 10%, this is over €300 million per year, 1% of gross domestic product. So, the Prime Minister of the Government said there were no calculations to save. Here's a concrete calculation, the minister has been dealing with it, she said it's a trifle - it's not a trifle, it's a big asset. And 2% of the fewer employees per year are also, especially if we are talking about reducing in times of crisis, there is no radical measure, there is a rational, moderate measure to be taken. A few weeks ago, I sat a few metres away from the president of your government, who was in front of a congregation of Slovenian economists, 500 of whom there were, said that at least 50% of people in the public administration in Slovenia were too many. Then we listened to three minutes of applause and then he repeated it again. If the President of the Government says that 50% of people in the public sector are too much to pay too much and you didn't say it was radical, I don't know how you can say that the proposal to reduce the number of employees by 2% is a radical measure. This is absolutely something that's feasible. In the previous mandate, the number of employees in the civil part of the public administration began to decline for the first time in the history of this country. With, let's say, at some similar pace this works for you, it also worked for you last year, but now the situation is more acute and we could do a little bit more here and the savings here are significant. I suggest that in the government you consider what is now radical and what is moderate cannot be a reduction of 2% radical and a reduction of 50% moderate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Krebs, the debate is on, after the next debater you can get your word back. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would personally like to see the opposition's move, which proposes a set of measures to improve the economic and social situation in our country, as a good idea, at least I would like to do so, and especially in the part where it is trying to follow the government in solving a situation or the exit from the crisis. We've kind of witnessed this in three parts in the past year. For the first time, we saw that the opposition was essentially trying to follow the government, with the announcement of the first and second package of measures announced by the Government and later adopted. At that time, the proposal for measures would also be followed by the opposition, in particular the number being discussed. It continued with the fact that the President of the Government here in the National Assembly said that the biggest challenge this year would be unemployment. That's what he said last year. And this is followed today by your title Fighting the Crisis is the fight for new jobs. Finally, the government's announcement, even in the past year, that an exit strategy will be drawn up, which will be crucial for 2010 and then follow the opposition's proposal for a third package of measures, which follows what the government has announced in the past. The only difference is, in some way, it has enabled you to always seem to have preceded the government some week earlier, that somehow you didn't need any calculations on your forecasts, is the first package you proposed, and now the third package package is called anti-crisis measures, because as an opposition party you don't really need concrete calculations on what this means for public finances. Therefore, perhaps a few advantages and perhaps a little bit more can be said in the general part, what should be done, not what can be done and what effect this has on public finances, how much this country would cost at all. We have heard that such measures, especially in such a context and in such a size, amount to EUR 1.5 billion less in revenue in our budget and 7.5% in deficits. And these are the solutions that you are proposing today and that is why it is difficult, and you need to understand, to take such measures that are simply not sustainable. To a large extent, when we have read these measures, we see quite a bit that they have been summarised and that in some ways they can also be found in government documents, but I am somewhat surprised by the proposal to reduce wages in the public sector, although the last reform of the payroll system was primarily the work of the previous Government and we can be honest that part of the confusion that emerged from this measure and still exists today must also be attributed to your shoulders. And it's not just any illusion about what we have to do. This is a measure that needs to be done if some sustainability of public finances is to be maintained or, above all, to maintain and reduce the expenditure of our public finances. And I agree in some particular segment that there are some fundamental differences in the direction of counter-crisis measures. I've already told you the first time. Another is simply to write down to reduce contributions, without saying how many homes for the elderly should be closed down, how many schools, kindergartens, and so on. And these are some of the measures that would be linked as a result to the measures you are proposing. Most of the proposed measures, we need to be honest, indicating only the direction of action of some economic policies, but there is no concrete analysis of what this would really mean. Sometimes it is unclear when it comes to short-term anti-crisis measures and when structural reforms are urgently needed. The introduction of some measures would not contribute to the fight against the social and economic crisis, which should be the purpose of these measures, but would exacerbate the public financial situation in the short term, and this is a problem in which we can find ourselves. So the fundamental difference in concepts is, on the one hand, we have a government concept that tries to reduce public spending, to preserve human social security, and measures have been designed in the past year. As a result, we may also be slightly more in debt, working on the exit strategy mainly for the sake of economic aid and taking on key reforms, at least starting these reforms, health reforms, pension reforms and labour market reforms. And let someone else say it's not a big deal for one year. And another concept, which is somehow reflected in the proposed opposition measures, especially in this last package, is more deficits, fewer revenues, lower wages and contributions, tax breaks, which many experts believe do not have the desired effect that they would like to achieve and, of course, "copy-paste" the bad bank, whose concept you copied from the German model that was adopted during the crisis and not during the exit strategy, which may be an important difference. Some of the measures in your proposals are good, some of the objectives are mainly covered in the sense that they are looking for favourable solutions from this crisis, but perhaps not the most important measures proposed, but what the content of these measures is and whether they are feasible or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u154	Thank you. Mrs. Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, there's only one part I want to answer. It is not that we do not look at ourselves as a measure of reducing the number of employees in the public sector. As you have found, yes, in the state administration, where we regulate this process ourselves, we are as successful as you were successful. We have a problem with public services and the number of employees. Comparatively legal with European countries, as I told you before, shows us that we have a different type of problem here. And a flat 2% reduction at the annual level will not work. You have failed in four years and the number of hours in this sector has increased dramatically, and we are failing. We looked into why not. And we looked at where these people work. In the field of work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the new three hundred and fifty employees. Where? In newly opened nursing homes, the need to protect the elderly, the demographic structure is getting worse, it's getting bigger, the homes are opening up. If we were to cut 2%, we would say, "No, the Ministry of Labour, let the homes be empty, there are public employees, that's also public servants, "we won't hire," because we have a flat-rate reduction plan." Because that's the only way he can be successful if he's going to mass. Where else? Another three hundred and fifty new employees were, I speak, in the field of the Ministry of Health in 2009. New Paediatric Clinic, Oncology Institute, Medical Home Ljubljana. These are public institutions where the number of employees has increased for a reason. The need for health services is also increasing. We cannot give up our services to our citizens with a flat-rate reduction of 2% of the public sector employees, as you suggested. We have a problem with that. I don't fight. I wanted to explain to Mr Visiak on the committee that it is not that simple. On the other hand, the cost of work we spend on these employees is on average higher by looking at these measures. We have also set ourselves the goal of reducing public servants, but if we do not review the standards and standards, if we do not review all the business processes that we are currently carrying out, and reduce them - before that, there was a law where we increased the new service where we had to hire employees again in administrative units, increase because of the new legal obligation, then we will fail. The task is significantly more difficult than flat-rate reduction, which, of course, only gives effect but is not opportunistic. We stand in the position that we will not reduce the scope of services for citizens, but that we must optimise and, in the framework of the stability programme, believe us, we will have to reduce the volume of wages again and we will have an extremely difficult job here and, of course, we are asking you for help.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u157	Nice greetings to the Minister, distinguished ministers with secretaries, colleagues, colleagues! When we are talking about a very serious matter and I think that we are certainly all united in this Chamber, that in 2007 and 2008, not only in the Slovenian space, but on a global scale, we have experienced some sobriety. The shock from some times, when it was in itself taken into account that economic growth from year to year is increasing, that companies invest that there is always enough on the capital market for an individual to invest even more than his or her real ability. As a result, we also paid taxes to the state budget, and employment was also taking place. And we can also say that this time of growth, which has been in the world over these decades, Slovenia has made quite a good use of autonomy and we have been on a scale of comparable countries or countries to which we like to compare, which has somehow grown and approached those most developed countries. In these years, I think that, like elsewhere in the world, we have the most important thing that has happened, that our expectations, expectations in the field of standard, have increased significantly, and that today, in my deep belief, we have the biggest problem right now in that we are all larger than what reality is today. This increases the expectations of employees in the economy, employees in the public sector, pensioners, students, our youngest. I am convinced that at some turning point, when it is very serious, we must take a very patient and responsible step together to find a way out of this situation, which will sometimes require very unpopular measures or discipline and a position in the time in which we live. Today, we have on the table a number of measures taken by the opposition. I myself agree with those comments on these measures that it is possible to have one-way, that the measures that make it easier for the economy to work are, and it is probably very difficult to bring such measures into the kind of public financial framework that we are in today. On the other hand, I can say calmly that this is in some way a set of measures that need to be considered. Also, as we hear and know, the Government is preparing its actions, which will certainly have to balance this public financial impact of these measures. And unfortunately, both in these measures and in the previous words, more structural reform has always been used, it is necessary to go to the pension registers, health checkouts, to see how it is possible to say around the organisation of ministries, but no one has shown concrete steps from here until now. On the other hand, we all know that there is a whole range of those who are watching with great attention, what we are going to discuss here, what the Government will propose, what will eventually be adopted, and what will be the consequences for individual structures. We have already heard, and we have already had people on the roads, then we hear from the loudest unionist, how the castles need to be burned again, how to get owners out of businesses, which in some ways points to a threat that is very common, that some economic crisis is followed first by a social, political one. And also some inappropriate measure or measure that has long-term consequences can happen where appropriate, and it is also on the street. Today we talked about the structure of the budget. As far as we are aware of these documents, it is slowly or surely clear to us that the wage segment, the material costs, the social transfers that we have heard, captures this current part of the budget, consumes more in this year's work than tax revenues are collected. On the other hand, if we are talking about the threat and big growth of public debt in Slovenia, we see that these are the places where these measures will have to be taken and stepped together. I would be much more pleased if these measures could be taken in such a way as to offer the deadline set out at the outset for cooperation to be agreed by the coalition and the opposition together. In the past these have been different partnerships that have worked in a better or worse way. Surely, however, the partnership in this mandate is relatively fast at some banal reception of the final account, where we have worked hard to determine whether it is right that 9 million plus or 30,40 million minus is in the final account, this partnership has diverged there. From my place, we call upon everyone to take the real coalition, the opposition, the government of this project together and to take the lead before the Slovenians and Slovenians, and to say the real time we live in, and appropriate measures. I am reluctant and very difficult to listen to what has been wrong in the previous government, how a policy has been set up, how this is why there are still so many problems today. I think we are sober enough to know that at the time of that big growth, which I was talking about at the outset, some other measures were planned for some other time, which we all expected would happen in these years. The situation is fundamentally changed and also requires root intervention. When we look at the real sector, we see how much the real sector has collapsed. As a result, the decline in GDP, which automatically increases our public debt. At the same time, we see problems in that the Slovenian banks, which have credited the private sector, economies, companies, individuals, have become in difficulty because most of this debt was obtained from loans from abroad. And we see what it means now that this public debt is growing so significantly. I am confident that if we do not start with a serious work and a common coordinated work, where we together will make this outcome out of this crisis and also explain to people in a uniform manner that this must be done at this moment, otherwise the price will be significantly higher in a few years. We see what's going on in Greece, what's going on in those countries where the government debt has already exceeded 100% of the gross social income that they are in. That is why I think and I firmly believe that we should not simply make these mistakes and have to react first, not wait until the end of the term and then make moves. I'm afraid we've missed a lot. In the Slovenian People's Party, when we adopt a rebalancing in last year - we can also say calmly without calculating all the details - we have warned that a flat-rate measure, such as a 10% reduction in wages and material costs, should save 300 million. Last year we passed this measure in 2009. At the end of last year, we adopted the 2010 and 2011 budgets. Some wage policies have been set up, agreed policies for the years that are now going through three quarters of this mandate. I am afraid if we are going to implement all of this so that we will not actually take this step that is urgently needed, and we need to cut down fundamentally in 2010 and 2011 and reduce this public financial deficit already in these years, otherwise, as I have already said, the price will be even higher in the future. On the other hand, I think there is also a lack of coherence between different policies. I know, because I have been doing this work for decades in the field of local self-government, so that we have a whole range of different policy areas in Slovenia. None of these policies have anything to dispute, they go in the right direction, they follow the right goals, but it is a big problem that there is never a line to the horizontal, as we say, under these policies, where we can also see the consequences and see together whether at some point we can afford it or whether society on the other hand, on the side of the economy, is too weak to go any further. These are the analyses previously stated by the Minister of Public Administration that today we see that there are many more employees in the public sector in some contexts, although I think there will also be a need to cut down here, that on the other hand the wages exceed. What's going on? It outweighs the economic potential of this country. And that's information that's very eloquent. Or if we turn around, on the basis of harsh reality, when trade unions today, the government and employers are negotiating whether something below EUR 500 or just over EUR 500 is that minimum wage. And from these salaries, which we know are unfortunately many, it is simply not possible to pay the public sector at the level that is today agreed and covered by all laws. I am afraid that these measures will be too slow to find where to find one job too, where another job is too slow, and that, like most of the real sector, there will be radical changes in pay policy, after all, a large job cancellation, that there will probably be a need to do something in the public sector with some intervention measure quite quickly, while setting up these policies, which will set us up by the end of the mandate and also the path for the next term, how also the imbalances will be eliminated. If we follow only these soft methods, the methods by which we will reach all the agreements with the various trade unions in the day, I fear that our public debt will increase dramatically and that we will all have problems and crises later in the public sector in the area of these salaries and pensions, and these burdens and these problems will be even greater in the future. Therefore, on my part, I once again call for this policy to be prepared together, in some way also trying to agree in the parliamentary work and then also to represent together. Certainly, there is something to be used in these measures, and there will be a lot more to be added, what is written there about the reduction in percentages, followed by concrete measures that will also illustrate this. I also expect and think that we can be united, that some step more could be taken this year on things that would in some way also enable us to promote the economy in our country. I have repeatedly expressed my own criticism about the use of European funds. I don't mean to be argumentative here with anyone, but we all know that the first year of 2007 was the year when the European Commission adopted a budget late and late in Parliament when the operational programmes were adopted from summer to autumn, that it was not possible to draw these funds from this title and that we now have virtually all these 5 billion for the next six years. And here is this base from which we could do more with accelerated drawing in 2010, 2011. I am sure that 2010 has already been delayed in several segments. Let me just list the programmes that are based on the operational programmes that are adopted. It's a regional development programme. Certainly, tenders could already be made in the course of last year. This is also reflected in this part of the disagreement in the Government and various aspects, which will certainly harm us not to have these calls, where there are 300 million, it is necessary to say that the 300 million multipliers have been awarded at least two to three, after these projects have been established in the municipalities that this title is very large, even if you want to, already leads to VAT and similar matters. It also criticises that there is no call for castle reconstruction yet. There are also 70 million available here. Renewable resources, efficient use of energy - €180 million. Last year, all we were able to do was move the program from one ministry to another, despite the fact that in the past there have been some activities, how schools, schools by municipalities, should also be restored in cooperation with local communities. I don't know, it's probably a trap. Economic centres, a new programme that I think could already have at least more than just a call outside. Area of cohesion, third development axis, landfills, railways, road construction. I am sure, and it will be very difficult to convince me that it is not true that we have done too little in these areas, because we again had a view too focused in 2007, 2008, on the mistakes of the previous ones, instead of making new calls and moving forward to find out, if we want, if anything has happened in the past. A similar project, which we point out in a given area, has already received numerous criticisms, observations, in the field of energy, the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. The reason is very clear: in the Government, no financial structure was made to enable the public company Infra, which is within the framework of the Ministry of the Environment, to provide financial resources and final calls for the infrastructure energy project of the hydroelectric power plant at the bottom of the Sava, could be made last year, with the embankments where 40 million investments were made in the design calculations, on the tenders obtained for 30 million that could be implemented this year. I am afraid that this part of 2010 will be delayed, as the calls will be repeated, we know what this area of public tender is like in Slovenia, what the calvary is from the beginning to the end of the call. And in these matters, I think that the whole range of projects where the government would actually, if policies were a little bit more coordinated, are operational, focused on the fact that we are generators of this kind. This is a typical project that is also being reimbursed in the 27 years of the state budget through the concession fee. In these things, I think we're late. So I could count on another matter, but I'm not going to use this matter here today to talk about weaknesses. I want you to first coordinate policies within the government. We are also hearing here that policies are different from a social perspective and to a view of the development of entrepreneurship and the economy. Come as soon as possible in front of the National Assembly, and use the coalition very early to work with you to create a programme that we can jointly support and as such, certainly not very pleasant for all structures and for all components, segments of Slovenian society, then we also jointly defend. I wish this would happen as soon as possible. How many appropriate measures are there, and use them. We will also support the conclusion which, I think, is not problematic, because it appeals to the Government to carefully examine this document and to extract what it thinks is good for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Golobič has spoken, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I was challenged by a statement by the representative of the applicant in the opening act, which was considered critical. I don't want to react to her that way. It was said that the economy was in a state of affairs or last year was marked by a situation in which companies were primarily waiting for the old orders to return automatically, whereas the government was supposed to invest primarily in non-performing companies. With a few facts, I would like to illustrate that the Government has made some important moves in the past year that will not in themselves produce results, because it is moving, it is clear to everyone where it is not possible to count on short-term effects if these steps are not taken, the next, in the same direction, in this year, in the next and further years. The country's investment in research and development has increased dramatically. Indeed, in the crisis year 2009 it is possible to talk about large movements, but, as I said, if they do not follow the same continuous movement even in the coming years, there will be no real results. Thus, our Ministry, with a call of €22 million, has enabled 200 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to be able, in these difficult times, when they can invest less themselves, by co-financing the country, without engaging, by the way, European resources, so that the process could be easier so that these small companies, without intermediate companies, could also apply for tenders. We know that when it comes to European funds, they are very complicated. To enable these companies to carry out their development projects, new products, procedures, technologies. Also, 26 million euros have been paid to strategic R & D companies and small business consortia through our Ministry through the TIA, and we have spent all the European funds that have been earmarked for this area in the past. A very similar picture was also taken at the Ministry of Economy, which, by increasing from EUR 50 million to EUR 109 million for the RIP, opened up a large number of demanding and key development projects in the most advanced Slovenian companies. A de minimis tender of some EUR 20 million has also been launched to complete the ongoing projects. We have also increased the resources for science, for research that takes place in knowledge institutions and is financed through the ADR, and also increased funding for research equipment at universities that are highly undernourished in this regard. We also spent in science last year or engaged all the European funds that were available, something with investments such as the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, something for an investment that is a polytechnic, namely a new Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology in Ljubljana, together with the Faculty of Computer Science, and in particular a call for a Center of Excellence. Mr Pukšič mentioned the centres of excellence at the previous item on the agenda today, not 180, but 80 million euros and 84 euros, respectively; 77 were allocated to 8 centres of excellence, where the institutions of the leading research institution in Slovenia, but we have made it a condition that they should also include companies, compulsory, in their projects, and on average almost 10 companies are involved in each consortium, say more than 50, approximately 60 companies coming from all of Slovenia and are the most innovative companies involved in this call or project and will decide on how these funds will be used by science. These funds could not be made available directly to the economy because they would be unlawful State aid. We continue this project in part with an instrument mentioned by Minister Križanič also this morning by engaging the funds of the successful fund in a return way through institutions that have instruments for this, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the SID of the Development Bank probably. The only European funds left around in this area are also €180 million for economic centres held by the Ministry of Economy, which manages how to spend them most effectively. Within them we are also looking for a space for the creation of competent centres, with emphasis on an innovative economy and with the idea of how to substantively upgrade the idea from the previous mandate on economic centres, so that these will not only be walls and roads around them, but a concrete development activity. Slovenia has also taken several steps in the previous year, which have been delayed for a long time. Not only have we ratified the decision on the status of Slovenia as observers at the European Space Agency after a long delay, but the Government has also adopted a decision on Slovenia as a participating country; I will sign this agreement on Friday. This agreement is important because all membership, everything Slovenia pays to this European Space Agency, comes back in the form of orders for the Slovenian economy. Therefore, countries that do not have economies that are competitive here cannot become members. Slovenia has thus received some recognition and good Slovenian companies will later be able - but so far they have been excluded, and it is not just Galileo, it is real economic projects - it has competed. The same is true for Slovenia's membership in CERN, where we have good, quality companies, if I mention only Instrumentation Technologies from Nova Gorica or Cosilab, which so far could not have been present in these projects because they were discriminated against because Slovenia was not a member. Slovenia has also actively taken decisive steps to include our economy and research institutions in the project to build a large European infrastructure, 34 so-called ERDF projects. This is what is being debated within the economy and knowledge institutions, which is the one because we have enough critical mass to be successful and that money will be well invested. The government has already adopted a decision to include Slovenia as 1% co-owner in the FER project, supported by the previous government. This Government has provided funds for this and has also taken all other steps that are important for this contribution to be paid not in money, but in the form of research and technology services offered by our companies. Of course, structural movements take time. In higher education, we are planning a very fundamental reform in terms of creating an environment in which the ability to achieve higher quality of knowledge will be more responsive to the challenges that the development of the economy also poses before higher education, including in the context of many of the above-mentioned sustainable development. Here we are counting on a serious debate, which we also started in the National Assembly, on the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education. I would also like to use this critical point within the administration, however it was meant, as an argument that in changing operational programmes - we know that some projects will probably not be able to be implemented at the time available, Mr Bogovic said about it - the funds will be redistributed in time before they fail in time, to research and development projects that allow for long-term quality, sustainability and sustainable development, without which we cannot imagine Slovenia, which will be able to pay higher wages. This will not happen without a larger number of finished products with higher added value being produced in the Slovenian economy. When Slovenia has maintained investment in research and development at 0.6% of GDP for 20 years to avoid a misunderstanding, 20 years. There has been no decisive shift since the Republican Secretary for Science, Dr. Frlec, covered the area of science. These investments, the increase from 0.3 to 0.6 at the time, resulted in Slovenia having the potential to compete in a self-sustainment path. This potential has been exhausted to this day. No new investments have been made. Nothing's gonna move in the middle of the night. Last year we managed to move this percentage after 20 years to 0.75 for the first time, and this year it will be 0.85% of GDP. The objective is known from the Lisbon Strategy, including from the strategic documents adopted by this country during the time of the Government of Robbery, adopted by 1% of public funding for research and development at the time of the government of Janša. This goal can be achieved by 2012 if we continue this trend. We know that only grants are considered in these research funds and this percentage. This is why these changes in operational programmes are so important, and it is therefore important to be aware of this when we are also talking about the transitions to return funding, which is important and complementary, which has not been sufficiently developed so far. However, if we do not continuously invest in R & D and thus support the innovation efforts of our economy and what is called the most healthy part of the Slovenian economy, then what was done in 2009 was also thrown aside money. If this does not continue this year, in the coming year and in the coming years, with all measures and hardships related to public financial recovery, then we have a future that no one will enjoy. I would also like to illustrate the debate and also the opening statement by the representative of the proponents with this information in support of the fact that we must continue to maintain these efforts in this area, both by the Government and by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u161	Respectable. We are increasingly aware that the crisis has been brewed by bankers and financiers and academic economists, whose media are talking about as tragic heroes. All of this has been spiced up by politicians who have created the situation as we have it. The unions have already announced a conflict year. This certainly suits trade unions, as they justify the importance of trade unions on the basis of conflicts between employers, employees and countries. Talking only about minimum wage is not enough. There is a need to offer a starting point that will satisfy both employers and employees. Until payment indiscipline [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the state will not regulate this by law, for so long, those who are unable to pay, not by their own fault, because the credit crunch is still going on, and they are dragging those good companies that are still liquid, so long as they do not expect an improvement in the economy. Turns out it doesn't matter if you have a job, it's important that this job is paid. If it's not, it's better to shut down the company and do less damage. This is where the country was sure to fall asleep. It does not listen to entrepreneurs and it is expected that trade unions will make more efforts in this direction and thus help businesses to improve liquidity, which is also a condition for better and regular wages for workers. Getting people out on the street is no problem. The revolution between nations is not a solution, the solution is well-paid jobs, not social transfers and bankruptcys. Responsibility must be mutual, both on the side of the State and on the side of those who expect profits at the expense of workers and those who represent these workers. If there is no money, if the minimum wage is €562, nothing will help, because all will remain on paper. Entrepreneurs, especially small ones, point to irregularities, offer baselines and no one listens to them. 90% of employment is in a small economy, but they fail to convince state bureaucrats that they are the ones who are a decisive link in the country on which it depends whether employment will increase or worsen. Healthy sails should be supported. Guarantees should be given to companies that have not been blocked for the last five years. Let the State grant a bank guarantee or write-off of VAT. It is also a mistake for good companies to "crush" at the expense of incompetent bureaucrats in a country that allows the death of those who are now able to survive, but they will not hold back unless something changes in the short term. We are looking forward to an uncertain year in 2010, as economic indicators were moving more and more rapidly at the end of 2009 than in the expected direction. The expected consumption of the population and increased economic growth did not mark years in terms of the expectation of the measures taken by the State. It's the most critical in construction. Exports were lower by a fifth than in 2008. At the end of the year, however, the crisis was still rising and does not indicate a near improvement. Unemployment has increased to 95 000, which is more than half of what it has been in the past year. The opening of new jobs is about a quarter less. The credit crunch is still going on. Companies are doing their best to obtain credit because banks are careful, they have tightened their credit standards and thus keep their income. The increase in interest rates on loans for return on companies by 3.6 percentage points when long-term loans are granted by 4.2% of the point, which is all the more encouraging for borrowers. There has been an increase in loans with a more favourable interest rate for the population in consumer credit. All other loans are more expensive than in Europe. This suggests that banks are willing to credit their previous population as businesses due to a lower risk. Of course, here I wonder what the state's actions and the guarantee scheme are. It is clear that the banks of state guarantees were not worth acquiring, as the risk of default would burden the bank and not the country. However, it is the State’s fault that has tried through the banking system to solve the problem of the tycoons and not through the judicial system. And this is also a story that will have to be solved if we want the economic situation to improve. It is certainly necessary to invest in development, innovation, and the search for new foreign markets, but it is not enough if this is just a matter of discussion and it does not come to a concrete conclusion. In the area of obtaining European funds, they are insufficiently successful and there are individuals here who help us freeze our funds. The acquisition of European funds is being used poorly for the purpose of development projects, although we are always talking about the importance of these projects. Changes in the labour market are essential. There is a need to ensure greater flexibility of the labour market, regardless of what the unions say. This is the starting point for greater employability. We're talking a lot about reforms. Reforms are essential, especially in the areas of health, education and pension. More needs to be done in the area of reducing public spending and eliminating programmes that are not urgent and priority. In the area of social justice, the eligibility of astronomical expenditure burdening the budget and the economy should be checked and development programmes blocked. Unjustifiable beneficiaries should be excluded and only those who are genuinely eligible for such transfers should be addressed. Of course, this also requires a little more consistency, but when we are able to make order in this area, unemployment will also decrease. 160 million unpaid contributions to workers also in state-owned companies must concern us, because if the state does not respect the laws, this cannot be expected of others. And when we hear those responsible in the country thinking about these unpaid contributions to think about it, you must have a headache. On this basis, the pensions of many workers who work honestly for daily bread are dependent, and they eventually find that they are also cheated by the state. We hear about the rule of law all the time. When laws are to be respected, they are not respected. It is true that laws are written to violate them. They are also written to be respected and to know when someone will be responsible for failing to obey laws. Workers shall be treated only as a contractual labour force and their salaries shall be treated as a business expense only. That's the logic of market capitalism. But it doesn't make sense if you're not on the winning side, but why are you on the losing side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Minister Henrik Gjerkesh has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members. The proposers recognised the importance of optimising the implementation of the European cohesion policy, which contributes to faster and more efficient use of European funds. This optimization on the Government's service for local self-government and regional policy has already been carried out throughout the year, with good results. I understand and agree with the particular concern for European funds, which in these times of crisis represent an important share of the means by which we can ensure sustainability, provide jobs and increase competitiveness. However, some of the debaters have provided information that we do not have at the service of the Government, so I might be able to provide you with information on the use of European funds. In the financial perspective 2007-2013 by the end of 2009, we confirmed operations for EUR 1.8 billion, together with Slovenia's contribution of EUR 2.1 billion, representing 42.8% of the total assets available. Progress in 2009 was significant, as it represents an increase of 78.5% in relation to the situation at the end of 2008. We have seen an even greater acceleration in payments from the budget, which increased by as much as 206.5% in 2009. This was extremely important in times of economic crisis and in terms of reducing the consequences of this crisis. Particularly problematic at the beginning of 2009 was the large amount of backlogs in obtaining reimbursements from the European Union budget. In 2009, this was one of the priority areas for accelerating pumping. With a careful examination of the situation and with the proper involvement of the government service, we have increased the volume of applications submitted for reimbursement by eight times at the end of 2008, which began to be reflected in the favourable net position of the Slovenian budget compared to the European budget and resulted in around 150 million euro surpluses, which is the most so far mentioned by Prime Minister Pahor. The trend and dynamics of the validation of operations and the preparation of claims for reimbursement will continue and increase in 2010, which means that the tenders were. The calls were also part of an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials. The problem was there were no tides. And there were no tides because the whole process, which is two-step, was not produced to the end. Since we do not only come to an end with the invitation to tender and the allocation of funds from the Slovenian budget, we need to close the procedure with reimbursement, i.e. with claims for reimbursement from the European budget to the Slovenian budget. This is the only way to complete the process of obtaining European funds. With more problematic calls, where these problems were more pronounced, delays have arisen. One such delay was also due to the first four calls for priority in the development of the regions, where, as I have said many times and as you all know, the call for proposals will be issued in January. However, on the basis of the audit of the Office for Budgetary Control and on the basis of two opinions with the Court of Auditors' reservation, we had to clarify certain uncertainties, both in relation to our legislation and in relation to the obligations we have towards the European Union. And we cleared them up, but it took some time. However, we did not want to repeat the whole process with this 5th public call, which we had to go through because of the first four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Following the deepening of the world's biggest financial and economic crisis since World War II, last year the Government and the National Assembly adopted two rebalancing budgets for 2009, plus 60 counter-crisis and austerity measures, under the auspices of the so-called group of crisis ministers dedicated to the financial sector, the economy and the population. Measures have been taken to help preserve many jobs and to provide assistance to the socially weak. Last year alone, the Government adopted 1,258 regulations, 159 from the powers of the National Assembly, 389 from the powers of the Government and 710 from the powers of the ministries. First, measures have been taken to stabilise the financial system and ensure the liquidity of banks with a view to providing funds for business operations. It followed the adoption of State guarantees for all bank nutritional roles of savers and savers and micro and small enterprises. The measure of unlimited guarantee for net bank deposits was adopted in order to maintain the confidence of savers in the Slovenian banking system. A law on partial full-time subsidisation has been adopted, which has been very well received and has preserved thousands of cities. The Law on Partial Reimbursement was adopted to compensate workers for their salaries on hold. Various programmes have been adopted to help businesses in times of financial crisis. The Government then passed a law on a special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons. The government has tightened its public sector wage policy and has legally prevented banks from reprogramming so-called Taiwanese credits and has further taxed revenues and rewards to all managers and supervisors in state-owned enterprises. The rapid deterioration of public finances in 2009 was not only a result of walking economic activity but also of the fiscal policies of the previous government in recent years. The 2006 tax reform alone reduced the tax revenues of the state budget at annual level by one billion and 600 million euros, which was not followed by a reform of the expenditure side of the budget. In addition, new and additional rights were adopted before the 2008 national elections, which have significantly burdened the state budgets for the next few years. The legacy inherited by the Government of Borut Pahor was not encouraging. Last year, the Government and the National Assembly prepared or adopted state budgets for 2010 and 2011, which are simultaneously developmental, counter-crisis and also austerity-oriented. The characteristics of both budgets are also programme orientation and the introduction of a so-called fiscal rule setting the ceiling for budgetary expenditure. In this way, €1 billion and €100 million will be earmarked for the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, as well as for higher education, science and technology for the purpose of developmental conversion in 2010, which is more than €330 million over 2008. There is also a marked increase in resources in the area of transport and transport infrastructure. Due to the crisis situation, the largest share will still be allocated to social security and health insurance policy of €2.5 billion, representing 7.1% of the gross social product or 25% of the total budget, and for labour market policy measures or employment growth of more than half a billion. The government has also undertaken parallel preparation of the so-called exit strategy. It will include the continuation of fiscal expansion in 2010 and fiscal constraints in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Fiscal restrictions are necessary for the consolidation of public finances, as the deficit of the state sector will need to be reduced below 3% of gross social product by 2013. This will be achieved by fiscal rule, as stated, which limits the expenditure of the State budget until 2013 at the 2009 level. Structural adjustments will take place over the next two years mainly in four areas: in the field of urgent institutional adjustment, in the field of public institutions, in the area of promoting entrepreneurship, competitiveness and transparency of the labour market, in the area of adaptation of transport and energy infrastructure, and in the field of effective environmental and climate policy and, of course, in the area of adaptation of the social security and health care system. It is already in some of the pension and health system solutions that an intensive public debate and dialogue with the social partners are taking place. However, legal solutions are also being drawn up that will establish new sources of social security for the most vulnerable groups of the population. What are the essential differences between the opposition's measures and the measures being taken by the Government? The fact is that opposition measures are mostly about reducing taxes and contributions. It is said that the revenue side of the state budgets is reduced by EUR 1,590 million or by EUR 1 billion and EUR 590 million per year. However, the fact is that reductions in taxes and contributions cannot be achieved without proposals for lowering public spending. Only one measure is proposed among the measures of the Slovenian Democratic Party to reduce expenditure and most other measures mean, on the contrary, an increase in expenditure. When the revenue side of the state budgets is reduced, the opposition should also tell us which programmes in the country are to be abolished. Maybe branch schools in rural areas, subsidising student nutrition, investing in health care homes, reducing social transfers, abolishing unemployment aid, reducing investment in state road infrastructure? None of this has been proposed. Only a reduction in the revenue side of the state budgets. It is precisely because of this inadequacy of the opposition's measures that the useful value of today's meeting is virtually zero. We can only have it as a very expensive exchange of views between the coalition and the opposition. And as I said at the previous item on the agenda, the main purpose of today's meeting is to promote the opposition from the television audience and direct transmission on two networks of national television and, of course, to push the spring road into the streets and markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Majda Shirca Ravnikar, Minister of Culture, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u167	Commissioner, I think there is also a need for an exchange of views because there are misunderstandings. The misunderstandings are already at the level of the previously asked question where 70 million for castles are when we are talking about European funds. They're gone. They're gone because these castles are in the clouds. At the Ministry of Culture, where there is also the possibility of calls for the use of European funds, not only all other invitations, where it can also participate in cultural heritage, when referring to regional calls, 67 million are reserved for the whole period 2007-2013. There's a billion of them in agriculture. That's how you cut it once. And it is difficult to make this logic, because cultural heritage can also be understood as an advantage for development, including for tourism, the economy, otherwise recognised. And it's hard to do otherwise, because in our heads, in our heads, I don't mean literally in your heads, but in people's heads, we still think that culture is a cost. Therefore, 67 million for the whole period means the rebuilding of one castle, one of which would be 100% participation. But in this country you all, some of you are mayors, and you know it, and all those who today are horrified against one call because within 68 good, well not all, but most good roles, can participate only 6, with a successful 10 million profit, unhappy with me, which I am very unhappy, that also the other one waiting for us this year and means participating in possible castle reconstruction, but mainly castles, palaces, libraries, development centres, for research centres have 9 million fights. We don't sleep at the Ministry for such a cut. And we're sorry. It is even more unfortunate that this money, which you yourself said in 2007, was difficult to start because there were no programmes in 2008 even more difficult because it was getting closer, or even in 2009, when those programs where it began to think came out of them as mature pears. And the gentleman from Negova knows how the economy has not merged with investing in cultural infrastructure. In short, if anything in the use of funds, even in the light of the European Capital of Culture, which can now be listed for 80 million funds and a knock on the door at the Ministry of Culture, where there are 67 by 2013. Believe me, it's hard. Therefore, I can appeal that you can find real projects on a call that you will manage yourself within regional projects. And believe me, the applicants have learned to do projects. They're good, they're not good because they wouldn't have a building permit. They just happened at that time. But to put it this way, they're in the clouds when we meet a certain cut that we know is repeatedly in danger.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word is like Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers. Greetings to fellow Members and Members of Parliament. Today, there has been a clear statement in this hall that today’s session, including this item, is unnecessary and fruitless, and waste of time. This is unprecedented cynicism, I think, and thank God, this is not even detectable from today's debate except for some exceptions. According to some, the opposition, in particular the Members of the SDS, should be humble, because the SDS is responsible for the situation as it is, because the Government, in the previous mandate, abolished the tax on salaries paid, reduced the rate of corporate income tax, reduced unemployment, and because the pensioners were provided with pensions that were aligned with the increase in wages, as it introduced the vineyards and thus eliminated the imprudent types in front of the toll stations and could still be listed. Given that under the conditions of irritation of motor energy and, as a result, slightly higher inflation, abnormally high economic growth and overheating, the economy is, of course, not entitled to soak the minds of the current government today, unless, God forbid, make any proposal to alleviate the financial and economic crisis. The SDS Members' request to convene an extraordinary meeting with this point is a proposal for a decision on the Third package of crisis measures to mitigate or improve the economic and social crisis in Slovenia, which I think is legitimate and necessary, as we have already heard in the introduction, due to the lack or absence of an initiative by the Government, which is, of course, the first responsible. None of us, of course, should care about what the future of Slovenia will be, but it gives me hope and with little optimism an article in yesterday's Work entitled "It doesn't matter whose it is, only that it is effective". These are the words of Minister Gaspari at the Committee on the Economy. Since it is not essential to him whether the measure comes from the SDS or from the Government only to be effective. I hope that's what all ministers sitting in the government will think. That is why I am optimistic, and I am sure that the adoption of the proposed measures will help to strengthen mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed financial measures, which include, inter alia, simplification and upgrading of the guarantee scheme and the establishment of a so-called bad bank, to which the burden of poor claims would be passed and further measures to be taken in the tax area, are said to reduce taxes such as tax breaks, a type of tax relief, would undoubtedly reduce the burden of newly established companies and would not have any excessive losses on the state budget, since these companies generally operate with a loss of profits after a certain period of time. The introduction of an unlimited 40% reduction in the amount invested in fixed assets and the increase in R & D benefits to 100% would enable companies to invest as much as they can in financial capacity and thus move into higher value added production. Finally, let me touch briefly on the measures in the field of agriculture. The situation in Slovenian agriculture is undoubtedly worrying, since among the recipients of social aid, as the only source of survival, it represents an important proportion of the agricultural population. In addition to proposing current and early payments from all headings, from all agricultural policy measures, such as those in neighbouring Italy and Austria, we also propose that the Government prepare additional appropriate systemic measures to encourage people to produce agricultural production and to enable Slovenian farmers to survive. It's not just survival. They will also be able to process the land and thereby produce domestic Slovenian food. It is important that the Government prepares a law on the generic promotion of agricultural and food products as soon as possible and submits it to the National Assembly for its consideration. With the proposed measures, we want to make our contribution to the SDS Group in particular to help the development and innovative active part of the Slovenian economy, to strengthen, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and to maintain agriculture as an economic sector at the appropriate level, so that we are able to produce more healthy and reliable Slovenian food. Allow me to conclude with a remarkable river. It's not about supporting you, it's about getting up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Respectable. I still owe information on the credit crunch and credit activity, which I did not present in the morning part of our fruitful debate. As you recall, since virtually half of the measures in the fight against credit crunch have taken place through Parliament on the basis of government proposals, we have first adopted a guarantee law on deposits in banks, then a guarantee law on banks entering into the interbank market, then we have adopted a guarantee law on loans in enterprises, say banks lending companies, a guarantee law on loans to natural persons, and now we are preparing a special post-crisis law on the state guarantee to individual development-intensive or ecologically important companies. In this context, I would like to present, although you will receive a longer report of the results of the current operation, guarantees for credits to companies' banks. In six tenders, 534 million loans were granted, in 353 cases. The A were 42% and the B were 41% and the C were 17%. The regional concentration of credits was on businesses, most of which was from the Savinja region, even in Gorenje very much involved, and survival and its rise and current growth are linked to the success of our anti-crisis activities in this area. Then Podravska, Osrednjeslovenska and Goriška region. The rest were less involved. Half of this credit activity went to processing, 25% to construction and 10% to trade. In addition, I must inform you that the European Commission has approved or made possible a specific product, as they call it, a special service of the European Investment Bank for the financing of ecological and technological reconstruction or modernisation of the European automotive industry. On my proposal on Ecofin, an initial proposal was extended, which was intended only for the final producers, including for investments across the chain. In this context, we have jointly provided an additional EUR 160 million of credits to the European Investment Bank and also to the Slovenian Export Development Company, which are now running into development centres in this area, from Cimos, Hidria and beyond. In addition, by recapitalising the Slovenian Export Development Company and presenting its role in the European Union, where it has been recognised as a special development and stabilisation role, we have provided an additional 2 billion and slightly more credit potential. We are currently dealing with an exit strategy. The exit strategy is divided into development measures, to modernise our economic relations in specific areas. Especially in the field of labour market. I hope, however, that employment will be transformed into a more permanent form here for a certain period of time, that these temporary tasks will, however, be addressed through the regime of the so-called small part, with the modernisation of social transfers, in particular with greater transparency and control over them, the modernisation of the pension system, which will stimulate work for a longer time where people own human capital and also noble it, for all the time when we are healthy and ultimately modernising the health system with its greater efficiency. At the same time, and this is my great concern, here I will have to rely more heavily on this high assembly, we are adopting a stability plan here to ensure the return of our fiscal policy from fiscal expansion. Last year, we were one of the countries that solved the additional expenditure crisis - according to the rules we received from the EU. We fell into those we could find out. And with 1.2% of GDP, we have actually entered into those countries that have actively tackled the crisis. Our neighbour, Hungary, who had previously sold out all her economic pearls, could not do so, could only save and wait for the crisis to hit her deeply. Now we have a stability plan, a plan to return to fiscal balance. At present, we intend to implement it, in line with the conclusions of the crisis group of ministers, in a way that would save money in the public sector and not increase tax rates to a greater extent. There will be some modernisation of the real estate income tax, but not significant, a few will. [[Incomprehensible.]] a tax, a substantial reduction or a relative backlog of public sector spending. We're going to need broad support here. That is why I think that this debate is in no way harmful and we will have more such discussions in the future, to return to the most developed European economies or to get there at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, judging by the news just published that one of the companies that was the brand of Izole, Fish, Delamaris, the fish industry of Izola is moving to Notranjska, to Pivko, is something in this country wrong, they would say, the world is wrong. The fact is, when much is said about entrepreneurship and the need for tax facilitation of entrepreneurship, there is little talk about socially responsible entrepreneurship. Today, too, we are faced with a proposal where it is not difficult to find points of national consensus. There are also many suggestions in this SDS proposal that I would like to sign immediately. However, it is a common denominator of this alternative model offered by the SDS to the Government, notably the reduction of taxes, namely the reduction of social transfers, the reduction of the possibility for the State to intervene in order to preserve and develop infrastructure and so on. It was said that the country would become as weak as possible and, on the other hand, the economy would be as strong as possible. Of course, the point is clear, but it is not clear how such a scenario, suggested by the SDS, would address the main problems of the current crisis period, where social transfers are still important, are part of the social infrastructure, which is once again important and indispensable for a new start-up of the economy. So the recipe for tax reduction is very comfortable, especially if you don't calculate the financial, social and other consequences of such an operation. Of course, there is evidence in these proposals that some of the tax demagogies that are typical when you sit in the opposition are a little more complicated when you run the country and when you have to make sure that all social segments participate in the exit strategy. Unfortunately, the time I have is too short, but of course, most of all, I advocate a new grip that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Thank you. The word has magic. Sonja Bukovec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to also present the measures that we are implementing or the initiatives that you have proposed, and I would like to comment. The proposed agricultural measures are mainly already being implemented, or at least in the part where European legislation allows us to do so or where we do not jeopardise public financial sustainability. If we start with the above-mentioned direct payments or pay to farmers, the so-called first-pillar subsidies or direct support, I can say that in December we have paid 37 and a half million for the limited-factor area and 20 million for direct payments or that we will pay about 150 million for farmers by the end of January. Let me mention that in 2006 there were no such payments by the end of December 2007 there were 4 million for direct payments. I mean, in this area, we've got maximum engagement, we've organised a good deal, and, of course, payments follow what's right. Our farmers need these financial resources before the spring seed. As far as your initiative on the COP is concerned, in order to make immediate payments, let me mention that this European regulation does not allow us to do so. The measure shall be implemented by the end of February and further cross compliance checks shall be necessary to ensure that these payments are paid in March or April or May. As far as your initiative on deminimism payments is concerned, let me say that last November we paid around 2 million cereals, while aid to the dairy sector, which was also defined or enabled by the Ministry of Finance to provide 2 million, was not made precisely because trade unions and chambers wanted to extend beneficiaries and are now collecting additional applications for those who are voluntarily pension and disability insured and will be expected to pay in March. In addition, the dairy sector, which experienced a price reduction of about 25% last year, will add up to 2 million additional $143 million, as much as Brussels has given us additional funding for this area. As regards the initiative on the Fund for Agricultural Lands to grant farms in the hill and mountain areas to manage as many state forests as possible, mentioning that the Law on Forests was adopted in 2007 and, on condition that concessions can be properly distributed, of course, is a regulation that has set out the criteria for how to distribute this. This regulation was adopted by the Minister in December. On the basis of this Regulation on the conditions to be met by a natural person for the priority right to grant concessions, on the basis of this Regulation, we will go to the collection of public tenders in February and we count that by mid-year, the programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hilly world in Slovenia will be confirmed by the Government, and this will also be the basis for the distribution of these concessions that you have proposed. As regards the additional systemic measures that will enable the Slovenian farmer to survive, let me mention the changes in the rural development programme, which you are certainly aware of and have proposed in the previous year, Brussels confirmed them in November. On this basis Slovenia received an additional 11.5 million for new challenges, plus that million and 143 thousand for milk. In addition, the changes concern raising the maximum amounts per beneficiary, which was before 1 million in the programming period, now being a million and a half million and 3 million. The changes relate to extending the circle of beneficiaries, extending the cycle of activities to be financed. We have introduced new measures and the Commission has confirmed them for us. These are steep vineyards and karst pastures. It has also granted us more public funding, so that now instead of 50% of public funding in measures 320, 322 will receive 85% of public funds and the use of these public funds will certainly increase. Measures within new challenges have now increased from 50% of public funding to 60%. I believe that these initiatives will have a positive impact on the use of resources and on our rural areas, as I said in November. We have also introduced a new training measure for agricultural work, as I mentioned, steep vineyards, which will allow or the objective of this is to pay for additional work in this area, we have at our disposal 4.2 million for this new measure, and Karst pastures, where the measure will definitely reduce protection. Let me also mention the basic service measure for the economy, where micro-enterprises also have about 4 million resources at their disposal. Wideband Internet – the call will go, I think, in February now, and will allow more information in the countryside. Support to micro-enterprises, where we have increased public funds from 50% to 60%, also for an inheritance measure. In the Pomurje Act, we have provided development support to the Pomurska region of 10% of the rural development programme 2007-2013, or around 40 million for the region. We are responding to problems in the food-processing industry. For these measures, we have more than 90 million available during this period. Last year we managed to reduce excise duties together with the Ministry of Finance, areas with limited activity are exempt from taxation, higher refunds for energy consumers, the Minister has been hearing about the problems of our agriculture, general tax relief for those with lower income in agriculture and investment relief in this area. Besides, we are now preparing a law on generic promotion, which is more than necessary, and I think it will be on your bench by summer. The absorption of funds has already been mentioned several times. Let me say that, from a billion 176 million, as far as we have in the second pillar, it is said, for the rural development programme at the disposal of which the funds have been intensively pumped in 2008 and 2009, let me say that Slovenia is now ranked first among the new Member States and eighth among all Member States in these two years and that we have practically absorbed 28.2% of all resources in two years. With this intensity, we intend to continue in the future, which will also be assisted by this kind of organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u177	Nicely greeted. The document, called the fight against the crisis, is a struggle for new jobs, and much effort has been made in this document, and I also expect that with fair intentions. The SDS requirement after an extraordinary meeting is actually an opportunity for the current government to present its actions to the public, which are already helping to get out of the crisis and those in preparation and will be sent to Brussels by the end of the month. The presence of ministers at committee meetings also proves this. But I must say that populism and flirting with those groups of people who are in trouble are actually pre-election bombs that do not solve the economic crisis, so that we will not solve the problems ahead. Especially if they're not synchronized income and expenditure, and we see that there's about a billion and a half missing here, which is beyond normal judgment. Conscious that the Government cannot provide jobs with the highest possible added value, it can ensure that the competition between trade unions is better protected by workers. They do not accept, say, the reduction of employees in public administration but require a cheaper state. Furthermore, there are proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, which are, of course, an additional cost of the state and many other such cases, it would be possible to list here, which also via the media are quoted by citizens and citizens as having to be criticised, that it is necessary to wait for someone else to do everything for us and that we will be better tomorrow. Of course not. We also have some good results and good practices. Let me mention from the local environment, say, Iscro autoelectrica, this is the automotive industry that's back in business. He's hiring workers. We're getting new orders. Let me mention the Guestola, the mechanical equipment for the bakery industry, which is in the clearing market or in the eastern part of this continent is excellent and has a lot of work to do. I will not list craftsmen and small businesses that adapt very quickly to market conditions and do not wait for help from the top. The debate in the committees and also here in the National Assembly is useful and also to assist the Government in preparing documents, measures, exits from the crisis. And despite some of the shortcomings that have been said and the deliberate distortion of assessments of the measures and the Government's envisaged tasks in the period ahead, I am sure that this debate is not a waste of time today. I also expect that, when preparing the documents prepared by the Government, there will also be such an understanding on the part of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The crisis came suddenly, in fact right away. It's easy to talk and be smart back there and talk about how to do it. We know well that the crisis started in America. No one expected to include Europe and Slovenia to that extent, however. Why were we then taking these measures, such as a guarantee scheme, such as subsidising working time cuts? That's when I realized it was due to time-consuming and to mitigate the damage that could occur. And I think we have been successful in some ways, because I can't talk about how the guarantee scheme worked out, I don't have any concrete data on it, but I can talk about subsidising part-time. The specific information I have from my environment is that the entrepreneur who worked for the automotive industry has not forgiven, the orders have increased, the work and the extension of this subsidised time will not be requested. But then we also proposed in the Slovenian People's Party that the key should be found, how and how to trigger investments at local level, I speak mainly here in the construction sector, and we proposed: in local infrastructure, in water networks, in the development of broadband networks and so on. Because we are confident that these projects are ready and that they can start working immediately, because at the national level of projects, there is no information about it and it is very difficult to stop it immediately. And look, it's true, 1% growth is expected, but I'll tell you, if we don't take immediate action to trigger these investments, I think [[...]] [[Digging up the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Today's topic has the scope of the recommendations that the National Assembly can make to the Government to try to work more effectively during the economic and financial crisis, and this is somehow also the scope of today's debate that we can hold in the National Assembly. So far from what the public might expect was also the intention of the applicants. And if we also look at measures, it is more or less truly clear that this is primarily an additional public financial burden and that Slovenia, which is within the euro area, we must be aware of, however, that there are very important restrictions and that it is not possible to continue to increase the public financial burdens, but that they must also be reduced in particular within a certain period of time, in view of the measures we have taken so far. In fact, if all these proposals were accepted, debt would increase to 7% of GDP, and our goal is to reach 3% in 2013 in line with the criteria within the euro area and thus meet the condition that the most developed countries within the European Union must achieve. However, in those measures, it is important to note that everything is nice and just hearing how to ensure quality jobs and stop jobs in the administration and thus create new jobs in the economy. Very simplistic, but I think we are all aware that this is extremely difficult to achieve, but if we are also somehow imagining what has been happening in the last period of the Slovenian Railways, when in the previous mandate it has actually been employed and given additional benefits, with which wages have also been increased in this sector, and today it needs to be saved and prepared to be able to survive in the market at all. And if, for a moment, I touch on the areas of transport as well as the ones that the applicants see as one of the measures to improve this situation and measures in this economic crisis, but we can see these measures as on the income side, just and only sell our most successful companies, such as Luka Koper and Ljubljana Airport, and that this can be effective in the short term - sell, earn, but the new owner will certainly expect that part of this income, part of this capital, part of this transport created on this infrastructure, of course also comes to this new owner and not so much for the development of the companies themselves and, of course, not so much also in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So they are proposing, in fact, the sale of silver, state silver, if I may say so, and this is a very short-sighted and short-term measure, which certainly cannot be so facilitated and said, which is now the right solution that Slovenia needs right now. Nowhere in these measures is it still to be seen that the applicant would make it very clear that the system of vignettes for the transport sector is very questionable, that it brings loss, that it brings very major problems, and that this is one of those measures that needs to be amended as soon as possible and that the tolling system should also be improved, covering at least one part of the debt that we have because of the construction of road infrastructure or motorway infrastructure. This is one of those measures that is necessary in the field of transport and, of course, the Government has already taken measures in many of these areas, guidelines that will reduce burdens and, of course, bring matters into more manageable waters than it would have been and, as otherwise, are not to be seen in these measures proposed by the proposers. A large part of these measures, or part of them, are, of course, already being implemented. Many of these will also be processed in the new legislation, which is yet to come, and we will certainly be able to discuss more specifically at future meetings under individual laws or resolutions or national programmes on how to really improve the development situation in Slovenia. However, I still kind of miss these proposals, too, the fact that all regions in Slovenia have not been affected equally in this economic and financial crisis. And we are still talking about introducing some incentives and for all areas evenly in Slovenia. That's not right, that's not right. It was passed by the Pomura Act. We must also be able to discuss the adoption of the coherent regional development law, which will allow for a change in the content of development in those well-developed areas that have actually been most affected by the financial and economic crisis. Among them is Kočevska, also Bela Krajina, and especially those places that are not located directly next to the highway network. Well, there is no trace of this in the measures, so, of course, it is necessary to continue to focus your thinking on where these problems have arisen to a higher degree, to a greater extent than in other areas and thus to mitigate the differences that would otherwise become and will become, if we do not do so, irresistible, and this is something that we certainly cannot afford in Slovenia. Therefore, the recommendations of today's session are welcomed in some sense, but in some ways they mean an even more difficult situation that Slovenia would have experienced in the public financial field if those recommendations were followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers! When reading the government report or evaluating the Third package of anti-crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia, a number of issues and concerns are raised. The general assessment or opinion of the Government on the proposed measures is expected to be negative and is largely rejected by the Government or valued as weak or harmful by the loss of resources and the increase in public expenditure. At the same time, the authors of this report state that the proposed measures merely indicate the direction of economic policies and that different interpretations can therefore be made regarding the implementation of such measures and warn of the public financial consequences, the reduction of tax inflows and the increase in expenditure on the expenditure side, for example, due to planned large projects. Such assessments and interpretations of the proposed measures do not surprise me, however, because there is a consistent practice in the National Assembly that the coalition or the Government rejects, regrettably, sometimes, all the proposals for measures, amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the opposition do. And that's not good. The typically well-established explanations about the systemic, comprehensive solutions planned by the Government are not convincing and they cannot be trusted, because everything is too obvious that the crisis is still going on. The economic and social situation of Slovenians is getting worse every day, the number of unemployed is rising, as well as budget deficits, indebtedness and so on. Not to mention many other negative consequences of such conduct. So the general situation is sad, it's already catastrophic. If we just look at the unemployment rate, which is growing and increasing and will slowly reach the number of unemployed from time to time immediately after independence. And that's what has to worry us the most. There's nothing to show that there's anything better going on in this direction. The bankruptcys are falling apart, companies that were once proud of the Slovenian economy and the number of socially disadvantaged and poor people reaching a critical limit. Let me just mention as an example the particular Pomur region where such an economic and social policy has fallen to the test and has earned an assessment of one if we go from one to ten. What is even more sad is the continuation of such a stepmotherly attitude towards my region. It is true that the National Assembly and the Government, by adopting the Development Support Act, have shown good will, are still only valid on paper, but in practice there are many things that do not speak out of genuine desire to help and improve the situation. On this occasion, I would not be talking about the very launch and implementation of this law. However, I must certainly mention the passive attitude of some ministries towards the specifically proposed initiatives for projects in the Pomur region. Here I am thinking first of all of the project of the Aeronautics Museum, which was initiated by the Slovenian National Party. Preliminary talks with the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture were encouraging. Unfortunately, however, everything remained in place and was already stuck in the acquisition and provision of the necessary land for the project with which the Fund for Agricultural Lands is located. Obviously, the government is not taking seriously projects to ensure a large number of new jobs in the region, but its priorities are only saving, new taxation, and unfortunately increasing debt. I agree with the proposal or initiative of the proposer that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia carefully examine the proposed measures, with a view to improving the economic and social situation in Slovenia. I do not consider the proposed measures to be prejudicing the Government and the coalition, but rather as an offer of a hand and assistance to the Government in solving such a crisis. I recommend that the government accept the offered hand or in some way the offered partnership, even with a heavy heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. It certainly does not claim that the Pahor government has been passive this year in all areas. In some, she was extremely active and proactive. For example, in the human resources network of Slovenia, it has achieved outstanding results. It has also been very proactive in the area of indebtedness of our country. On Monday, Slovenia, the Pahorje government charged an additional EUR 500 million by issuing a new bond by increasing the state debt, together with government guarantees, from EUR 11.8 billion to EUR 18.1 billion in just one year. That is 6.3 billion euros in just a year. We're all on the same boat as the Prime Minister. I'd say we're on the Titanic. The rock is already rolling on its side, and the government orchestra is playing cheerfully forward and does not hear the opposition's proposals, which it has been constantly repeating for almost a year, while we are listening to predictions of such and different strategies that Slovenia is expected to take away from this problem. Unfortunately, in a year we have not witnessed some concrete activities that would have really favoured change in this situation, such as last spring, have also led to structural changes in particular areas, so that Slovenia would actually, given that the global economy and also the European economy are warming up after leaving this situation, be able to develop faster. Unfortunately, this opportunity was missed. In just a year, Slovenia fell by all indicators. It fell significantly faster than the neighbouring countries. If we have been at the summit before compared to the countries of the European Union, we are on the tail after a year. The public debt, which amounted to 21.5% of gross domestic product in 2008, was already 33% and will double by the end of the following year. While, of course, in 2008, we recorded the surplus, the public financial surplus, that from 2004 to 2008, we kept reducing this public down from 28% to 21.5% of gross domestic product. And these constantly recurring data on how the country's gross debt increased from €15 billion to €35 billion in 2004 to 2008, of course relate to a segment of the population and economy with which no government has anything. Above this, Banka Slovenije and its mechanisms are those that enable or do not allow expansion in this area. And if anyone is responsible for the expansion during this period, it must be the current minister, former Governor Gaspari and not the previous government, and the current government cannot be responsible. However, the previous government managed to reduce public debt, as I said, from 28% to 21.5% of gross domestic product, by creating surpluses, so that this was also the basis for an assessment of the situation at the end of 2008 by the OECD, where it stated that the favourable public financial situation was at the end of 2008, from the time before the crisis, allowed Slovenia sufficient room for fiscal incentives. So I think that this institution can be believed to some extent and that all the indicators that have been published on several occasions are the ones that confirm this assessment. And where are we after a year? At the end of 2008, we were the best in society; at the end of 2009, we are in the company of the highest-risk countries. The Wall Street Journal published a list of countries at the end of 2009. The ones that are painted in the dark are the ones that are troublesome, that do wood, if I simplify, to bankruptcy. Among them is Greece. We know Greece was considered on Monday. And there is, unfortunately, Slovenia among these countries. I think it's disturbing data and it's not good to close your eyes in front of them and repeatedly repeat one and the same mantra that doesn't hold: "We've taken the state in bad shape. If it hadn't been for that, it would have been better now. We've been taking measures, but unfortunately they haven't. And so on. I think that the opposition, in this case the Slovenian Democratic Party, has always acted constructively that it came with proposals. Unfortunately, however, there was no willingness on the part of the Pahor government to summarize the measures and proposals that were well-intentioned during this period. It was said we didn't tell you where to save. We told you. We also said how to save. It is not good to save in a way that maximizes expenditure at some level, as the tides can be further reduced. No one ensures that the tides will not be smaller and I think it is wiser that the expenditure side binds to a percentage of what is created. And here the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed a very clear and very realistic model, which does not mean any large numbers, but means a gradual approach to reducing the expenditure side so that these scissors do not increase, but to reduce and, on the other hand, to increase the inflows to the state budget by both fiscal and fiscal measures. It is not good to take a strict accounting view of these matters. Here it does not play the basic role of basic mathematics, but some reduction of taxes somewhere means greater activity and thus greater inflows. That's how it was all over Europe. At the time of the biggest crisis, most of the countries that have successfully overcome this situation have worked so well and have been successful, unfortunately not with us. If this government isn't saving anywhere, I'll just say a few cases. I don't have time to count everything, but there are a few. By the way, the vines were mentioned. Venetos have provided 30 million Euros of more inflows at the annual level. I don't know where you get the information that they're a bad move. Where there was no saving, the data are very simple and clear. For example, in 2009, the Kosovo Commission moved from state premises to rental premises, for which it pays 30,000 monthly rents and 7,000 euros in costs. About half a million euros a year cost us just the operation of an institution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u186	Please, peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u187	The efficiency, I think, won't be any bigger. [[...]] Only one authority for half a million euros a year. Not to mention a joke about Falcone, where it only erupted in a year about 3 million euros. Not to mention a number of vacant property owned by the state, where a few million euros will be blown up each year. Not to mention this systemic approach, which is not uniform when individual public administration institutions, individual parastatal institutions should be brought into different frameworks, certain functions that are repeated, and also in this area would be significant and significant savings. Wherever it is possible to rationalise without the content being reduced, this can be done. However, Pahor’s government did not do so. The Slovenian Democratic Party was clearly a populist party when it said that the number of employees in the wider public sector should be reduced by 2% at annual level and then reached this final figure after five years, which would amount to EUR 300 million per year. When Prime Minister Pahor at an economic forum stated that 50% of the employees in the state administration were too many, everyone applauded him and no one said it was populism. I think it's ultra-populism, and no one named it that. It's the president of the government who needs to know what he's saying at any moment. And at the moment that this populist statement was made, he knew that there was no real basis for it, because otherwise any master would have wondered how it would be possible to throw away so much money every month if you had 50% of the people too much, so to speak, those who contribute nothing to the added value. If such a decision is to be adopted today, as you have drawn up on the working body, then this debate is unnecessary. We have proposed amendments and it is imperative that these amendments, which specify what has been proposed, be adopted. They are proposing which things, which laws and what measures should be taken next month, and I hope that the coalition will listen to this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. For the beginning of my debate, I would like to say a thought which I think should be considered a rule: the Council did not start at the end of 2004 and the Council did not end at the end of 2008. The world started billions of years ago and I hope it will continue a few billion years. It must therefore be understood that many of the measures proposed or recommended by the opposition, as the main party of the Slovenian Democratic Party, have already been launched even in 2000, not in 2004 or 2005 and are, of course, gradually continuing. Not because public servants in this country are unable to do these things within fifteen days, but because some things, some processes take much longer. It is true, however, that at a time when the public financial and economic situation in this country was the best, I will say the most, conjunctural, something did not happen today, at a time of the deepest economic crisis, I hope to say in the last centuries, because I think that even in 1929 there until the middle of the thirties was not as bad as it is today. Because of the fact that this crisis has actually taken over the whole world, while the United States of America was mainly involved at that time. And what was it that didn't actually happen? What has not happened now has not happened, and this country must, at the time of the worst crisis, take and implement measures so that this crisis will not be the worst harm to those who are most vulnerable, is what the poorest part of the population, citizens. In order to take action at the same time and seek solutions in order to restructure the economy. Over the past four years, nothing has happened that from a labour-intensive, extensive economy, including agriculture, could move into a technologically highly developed, innovative and, above all, economy with very high economic value, in which young people with as much quality education could find work as possible, not with the highest possible quality education. In fact, a very good electrician, a very good electrician, can be a very quality education much more desirable and needed in the economy than many philosophers, lawyers or economists. We have at a time in the past ten, fifteen years, young people's education at university level has focused solely on social orientations, while natural and technical orientations have been greatly underestimated, not only in the study itself, but also in the economy. That is why I would say that, while it is very useful, the work that has been put into the recommendations or proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party has in fact focused on thinking about all possible directions and paths in all areas, in particular the public sector, which could help to get out of the crisis. Many measures, of course many recommendations, have not experienced the stage in which the financial consequences of such measures would be assessed and fortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has found it useful to take into account such a concentration of different types of measures, evaluated them. Unfortunately, we have found that, while measures are useful among them, they may even be implemented in recent years, but unfortunately in today's financial situation they have an impact on the public financial situation by tremendously reducing revenues and, of course, by dramatically increasing the public financial deficit. This, of course, is the situation in which the European Commission is considering us alongside, it is said, Greece. I would say that we are not yet far from Greece, but it is true that we are exceeding the deficit allowed and should therefore be remedied within a certain period of time, by 2013. I think we're capable of doing this. Of course, not by taking the measures necessary to restructure the economy and also by implementing many measures that will make our economy more competitive on the international market, so that we will have to start implementing them when we come out of this public financial hole. And not that a person would like to report that in the past, in the past, but up to one year ago, a positive, good situation was not sufficiently usefully used, but today, at the previous point, there was a lot of talk about lying. Even now we've heard one fat lie a few minutes ago, and I think when we talk about documents, we're waving them to show how there's just one document from one bank that goes about how someone is a chronic liar who should go to treatment, etc. I think that such chronic liars are also here as permanent users of parliamentary seats, not just among ministers, if anyone is talking about it. I mean, I don't think we need to trust the government, but we can trust her employees. And that to people who are employed and who work in independent institutions of this government. In 2008 he was not, we did not go through without a public financial deficit. In 2007, it was slightly less than nothing or slightly more than positive, it seems a surplus, but in 2007 it would be good for the person who likes to look at some of the data to look at it was minus 2% of the gross domestic product. In 2008, we finished, the ones you don't want to hear, with a minus 2% gross domestic product. And that is not what Mr Franci Krizanic has found, nor Borut Pahor, but Surs has. And I think that there are some people here who believe the data of Sursa and those who don't believe them, you're just going to have to prove the opposite with accurate calculations and credible data. So there's a lot to talk about lying. When we talk about saving at the expense of the public sector, we need to know that there are two parts of the public sector. One, which is the narrower public sector of the state administration, is the civil servants, the military and the police, who are currently together about 34,000, but we have a wider public sector, without which, I hope, we cannot survive, but which is now about 157,000, is us, pardon us, because there are 90 of us included here, and there are 157 thousand of us and a little less than 400. It's nice to talk about cutting pay costs by 2% every year. The public sector will be reduced by 2% this year and 2% by the second year in order not to divide the performance of 2%. Of course, the problem is that the idea that you are talking about in your material to reduce, so to understand, the number of employees by 2%, of course, is that there is a whole range of activities in the public sector, in these 157,000 people who are too few: doctors, schoolchildren and many others. And all I'd say is that I won't be too long, yes, I'm sorry. That's all I'm gonna say. We have received one proposal to amend the Basic School Act, where the SDS proposes to increase the number of teachers to teach foreign language at a lower level in the first triad. How does this correspond to your proposals for reducing the number of public sector employees?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u191	I was talking about the state budget and this deficit. Mrs Breda Pečan spoke about the wider sector, including health and pension bills and methodologies are important in these matters. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. It is not true that the Government has not expressed its readiness to examine the proposals made by the SDS. It expressed this readiness and this is also the proposal for conclusions proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups. Whether it is your suggestion that certain things be properly dealt with or not, frankly, is another issue. I will, because I have to let everything else go because of the time I have at my disposal, just ask if we can believe in the sincerity of your proposals, if you are not satisfied that certain issues are being examined, that a particular issue is being financially evaluated, because there is a comprehensive responsibility on the government, not just for an individual measure, and that certain things are being taken on the basis of the report on what the assessments were. This would be understood as a willingness to work together as a willingness to find solutions. However, if you have a proposal for amendments to this Decision, which foresees, I think that together more than 50 paragraphs of the concrete decisions that we must take as you have proposed, then let us understand that this is difficult. For the time being, according to the results of the elections, there is still a ruling coalition, not the Slovenian Democratic Party. And if, in your first point, you propose the adoption of 17 laws within one month, including health care and health insurance, pension and disability insurance, income, social security contributions, employment law, employment law, systemistic matters themselves, which also require some harmonisation, and any opinion other than yours, then the person really doubts that this is not primarily so that you can explain and speak in the coming months how many proposals this ugly coalition has not adopted. We're prepared to cooperate, not to dictate on your part.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me now say a few sentences in these more concluding thoughts and express the hope that many measures and debates around them will not further separate us than would be necessary. There can be no doubt that we cannot all think the same way about 70 proposals for action. Not in particular, given that this is already the third package in the series proposed by the SDS, that several packages have also been proposed by the Government and that many employers' organisations and chambers have proposed at least once more measures in the past. Today we may regret that, at the beginning of 2008, we did not take into account some of the warnings written by employers, and we preferred to distribute pre-election concessions so generously at that time. That wasn't smart. Then it would be better to stop, think about it, and perhaps today we would have fewer problems than we have. I am judging, however, by the discussion that took place on the Committee on the Economy, as in the material prepared by the Government in its response to the proposals, and by today's discussion that the Government's representatives were mostly eligible for these measures, which were presented. In this way, they have also found out what is already being implemented. In such a way that they have correctly stated what they do not accept. And I hope that, even in this way, the thoughts about considering these measures have been further frank. Therefore, I have no great regret about the first proposal, with the amendment proposed by the SDS, which speaks of the State Assembly's support for a fundamental orientation and suggests that this be examined thoroughly and carefully. As I understand today's debate, we are very much in agreement. Especially in basic directions. If there are fundamental guidelines for structural change requirements in all areas, both in the State Administration, both in the field of health care and pension insurance, if there are fundamental guidelines for requirements to allow for greater competitiveness of the economy, faster technological reconstruction, etc., if we are united in the need to amend or modernise labour legislation, etc., I think we are united in the basic guidelines, however. Such a proposal for a decision does not present a great deal of embarrassment to me. The second is that perhaps for prestigious reasons this is not a true diction. As for the second amendment or the 17 - law amendment within one month, it is likely that the demand or hope is too much and too optimistic. And if in many things we agree on what is at stake here, it should be pointed out that in some, however, it is not. I would find it very difficult to agree, some have already stressed this before me by weakening the social and pension allowance. It doesn't seem like where we would draw on the funds, except from the budget, because we have a binding system for this funding, and I wouldn't be attracted to it at all. As opposed to attracting some of the solutions already proposed in the context of the modernisation of the pension system within the Government, I do not think that individual things should just raise their hand. However, I am pleased to support that exit strategy, which I hope the Government will prepare as soon as possible, which will take into account a number of these proposals, which will take into account a number of warnings on how to change our culture or pay discipline over the medium and long term, how to make a major change in the black work, the grey economy, which ranges from 20% to 25% of the gross social product, and which will also take into account some other important comments, given at a number of meetings or meetings of our committees that we cannot take into account today. So, as far as I'm concerned, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] With regard to this proposal, which we have before us, it is a desire for the Government to take the best possible proposals proposed into account in the exit strategy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u197	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and colleagues and colleagues. I estimate that no debate on anti-crisis measures is too much in this House and I would expect the unification of one party and the other to be slow. I think that the opposition and the position have the opportunity to concentrate and focus at this moment on the serious problems we have in Slovenia in terms of getting out of the crisis. Finally, I expect that we can do something useful together. It is true that my opinion is that the opposition also has the right to propose measures, but of course they must be positive, they must be useful, they must go in a direction that does not harm Slovenia, so that they do not "collect" the budget, as it is now clear that their objective is not a measure or a bankruptcy of the financial system in Slovenia. Taking into account the opposition's proposals, we have heard several times today that this would mean €1.5 billion in deficit for Slovenia, and of course this is not acceptable at this time. Again, we run into a lot of perceptions, such as what the current government sees: railways. That's bullshit! To read the railways when we know what it means, what the procedure is, to even get into space and so on. You're also getting a minimum wage. If I try to stop a little bit at this minimum wage, the minimum wage means that at this point we have a big problem and I am also the one who supports the minimum wage that should be increased. But what does minimum wage mean, what does that even mean? This means that those companies that currently have a minimum wage need to be restructured. And whose task is this restructuring? Of course, it was the mission of the former government. Restructuring is a process that lasts a few years, and I would expect the former government and the former economic minister, who was so flying today, to deal with it a few years ago and not have these problems on the table anymore. I just want to support the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusions of the Committee on the Economy of the Republic of Slovenia, of which I am also a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Today, the Health Insurance Office at the press conference, the first man of the insurance company, Mr Sam Fakin, said that last year's loss was lower than expected, with only €75.7 million in deficit this year. However, it says that they can still cover this from what they have saved in previous years, that is to say in the time of the poor Janša government, but now it will go, indeed, the collapse is threatening in 2010 and 2011. The budget of the health insurance company is EUR 2.2 billion for compulsory health insurance. That's a lot of money, that's about as much as the government did last year. This is the deficit of the state budget as announced or published when we adopted the 2010/2011 budget last December. I believe that the anti-crisis measures must also fall into this area where so much money is going on. Here we have proposed some measures that can be quickly implemented or needed. The first problem is the systemic problem of limiting programmes. The Health Insurance Office limits the programme to any public health service provider, which is why, at the end of the year, November, December, operations are cancelled, are postponed to the following year, although the Clinical Centre could also implement this additional programme but is limited. And then it happens as you read in the papers that our patients are sent abroad because we have a longer waiting period. With us, however, contractors are constantly fighting for an additional program because those who were sent abroad last year, that was 265 patients, could be delivered to our home. Such transfer of services is costly, as the patient’s condition is getting worse and not only will the service that has been postponed have to be performed in the following year, but this service will also be longer if we do not take into account at least the patients who are so long due to the waiting period. Secondly, what we point out is competitiveness. Any economist who knows the economy as much as he knows the economy will say that public health services will not be rationalised until we establish competition. And what's going on with us? We are predicting legislation, not the legalisation of competition between health operators, but the legalisation of a monopoly. Monopoly! This is predicted in the new Health Act. What does a monopoly mean? We hear from the latest news what is happening in Lekarna Ljubljana, where they want to put out concessions even to those individuals who have received the concession, they have nicely equipped it and competed with the Ljubljana Pharmacy by offering other, better medicines, not only Galenska, which are produced illegally, Pharmacy Ljubljana. In all areas, this monopoly, which is in the field of health care providers, is melting away as a very poor path for entry into the crisis process, is called rationalisation. Not to mention how harmful the monopoly is and, above all, how negative the attitude towards a private initiative, to concessionism, you could also read in the last newspaper, it seems to me that Saturday's work, an annex where the interview with Professor Dolence, the only provider of the best neurosurgery in Europe, is going to a private activity, to a private institute, because he said, "I have enough of this." If we do not introduce a more marketed relationship in this area, and until we are freed of that socialist mentality for an ideological one, I will say, a hysteria against all privates and a private initiative, we will not be able to rationalise for that long. Let me just mention these few concessionaires in basic health care who are and work, have invested from their resources in health care, in public health care what the founder must invest in health care and hospitals, that is, the municipality or the state. And these funds were over €60 million out of their own pocket, not to say that policy is not satisfied, but one of the policies is not satisfied with the work of concessionaires, and all the research shows that patients are more satisfied than with ambulances carried out by exclusively employed doctors. And until our policy frees itself from such entanglements in ideological thinking and also from entanglement in its internal conflicts and takes a sincere approach to resolving the crisis, we also believe that all such comments that are coming will have to be taken into account, there will be no way out of the crisis for so long. At least here you can admit and you must admit that our actions are not a copy of your actions, but they are contrary to the measures you are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u201	It is important to fear those who have solutions for all problems and who are able to do them overnight, even in difficult and complicated times as they are now. I believe there's still a lot of stuff in stock and we could experiment on something else. They used to say that when the farmer was sick with a cow, they called an ideologist from the previous regime who prescribed prescriptions. And next time, the cow was no better. Here comes the third time and so on. And then the next time he comes in for a long time, he says, "How's the cow now?" And the farmer said, "Alas, the cow is dead." And this ideologist said, "Oh, my God, I've had so many good recipes available." Here is actually the key point and Mr Tsukjat has said the essence. The elections in Slovenia were just one message: we want to change the system, we want to change the recipes offered to us in four years, which, despite the conditions they were, did not produce results or people with these results were not satisfied. And there's no dilemma: programs against the program. And here Mr Sugar is right, I agree with him. However, when this change takes place, it is only necessary to recognise and allow those who have legal leverage to exercise that authority. It is possible that 160 laws or acts produced by the Government in the previous year and worked with members of the coalition, as well as some other laws, could be insufficient. Some of the measures may not have been the best. But anyone who is just monitoring the situation in Slovenia and around us, whether when it comes to the countries of the European Union or those that are not yet, will be able to see that many of the acts in this set, over 160, do not talk about government regulations, measures and so on, which are within its competence, but about the National Assembly, have been "acquired" as some would say. If we really want to go from case to case, from area to area, then it would be right to do these things this way. If someone writes, quickly or not, or takes a package out of some stock and says, here I have solutions that should otherwise be contained in a series of policies being implemented on subsystems in that country, where it is necessary to look individually or collectively at whether it works or not - such an approach actually prevents dialogue, it makes it impossible to find solutions that are appropriate for that time. And how can I escape from this what is the essence of these measures? Is it really the point to tell people that if there was another power, there would be fewer taxes, more benefits in what areas, jobs would open up, less labour and the like? Yes, such debates mean psychological pressure on the public, meaning to create situations in which they are trying to prove that the Government is not competent, that it does not know that it cannot and must do something else. That's what this is about. I have not supported one of the proposals by the opposition, but I will support it in many ways, but I will not agree that we can pull a rabbit out of the bag today or out of a hat, a rabbit and all the solutions will be known. Hocus experiments don't work in these crisis situations. We monitor the situation both abroad and at home, and some comparisons show that we are somewhat better, sometimes we are the same as others, and sometimes we are lagging behind. But it's on this government and it has to be able to suggest whether you accept it or not. The individual measures contained in this set will be taken, certainly, and we will probably have an understanding, but not in the way of saying you have here, and now let the government operationalize it so within the laws that it will work in its entirety. There's no way to do that. At least until now I didn't believe that I could, and I don't believe you'd convince me today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. President. I welcome the minister, the minister, the ambassadors and the MPs! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have put forward a proposal for conclusions on the third package of crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia. The fight against the crisis is the fight for new jobs. It is true that the crisis is a state of the world, but Slovenia is such a small country that this crisis could be avoided much better. Even in the economy, this principle applies to micro-enterprises and medium-sized enterprises, not large ones. So it's our big advantage, not our weakness. We've really been going back quite a bit this year. For I speak from the standpoint of the economists, for every day I am with them, I come from the economy myself. What does the economy need? The economy needs liquidity, and this must be ensured by the State, the banks that are actually state-owned. How will banks ensure the liquidity of the economy? This way, it has to go down somewhere. State bureaucracy must be reduced. I have already proposed to the President, Mr Pahor, that he should reduce the ministries by 2008 to reduce state bureaucracy. I must say, in 2009, he was very brave and optimistic about the decline. I'm sure that doesn't work, like he said, 50%. But if we set ourselves the goal of reducing national bureaucracy by at least 2% every year, we will do a lot in five years. This will create a greater opportunity for developing the economy that we really need, which is needed by the whole of Slovenia. We have major problems with employees mainly in education. We have to admit, there are a lot of professors over 70 years of age and over. I've told you once before, and then let's get to the age of 35 people retired, not 70. I don't know what country we live in and why we allow it. In these measures that we have proposed, we see a lot of positive, positive direction, because only a positive attitude for the economic and even local community is then the fastest way out of this situation that we are in. It should be possible to provide the nine economic centres, which are somehow a series of years old and do not in any way achieve development or birth. I'm sure they won't be for a long time. We should encourage or give Morituring to companies for the new establishment of companies or companies wishing to invest in industrial development zones for development that would bring new added value to employment, the necessary employment for Slovenia and Slovenia at the present time. It is necessary to set up a moratorium here, but not that at the beginning of the idea, at birth, if I may say so, it is impossible to be a liquid company and it is not possible for a company to start to be surprised and develop in the years to come. The Slovenian Democratic Party has, for good reason, demonstrated these measures, with a view to joint cooperation, with a view to accelerating the development of the economy. If we do not accelerate these things, then believe that in 2010 we will be able to count the companies that will create them in two hands. And the state bureaucrat will have to start wondering where they're getting their salary from. I hope and I believe you understand that the appeal is very urgent and must be reacted quickly. And I understand that we will all take one step towards a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Joko Godec. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u205	Thank you. Correction in politics requires first to be said if someone is doing something extremely well. This Government is confidently carrying out an extremely good implementation of the South Script as a whole. What was the characteristic of the South script? An exceptional debt without any investment cycle being completed, money has disappeared unknown where, without a particular effect. At the same time, unemployment actually increased, and we all know how it ended. And let's see what this government is doing. In just a year - I'm talking only about what taxpayers' money actually stands for - it spent 6.3 billion euros of taxpayers' money for debts and guarantees. That's what taxpayers' money is all about. If we convert it into a former brand, almost 13 billion marks, that's how we sometimes calculated in the time of Yugoslavia. You will not believe this, it is more than half of the total Yugoslav debt at the time of the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, in just a year. And let someone else say that this government is not extremely successful in implementing the southern script for Slovenia! The biggest problem is that there is no new development cycle, that there is no restructuring and, above all, that there is no opening up of new jobs. Moreover, the Prime Minister of the Government stood before the public and at a time when almost 100,000 unemployed have been inherited, it is said, more than half, that in a year, 120 000 unemployed will be reached, pre-defined as a remarkable success of the current government. And interestingly enough, in our environment, it survived peacefully, in the Balkan way, "and nothing." Like it wasn't for 120 thousand families, for at least twice as many specific people who were threatened to stay on the road. This is about money getting as far away from it as possible. In fact, the whole problem is that at the moment everything is just pushed under the table, but this way the problem is accumulated and also this was the characteristic of the south scenario. Earlier in words and actions, like the ever - red thread of the current coalition, there was a great difference. On the one hand, the main debaters, in particular of the largest government party and the entire coalition, said, "Yes, because we will listen, we appreciate this effort, we respect the work done..." But when one of my colleagues, from the SDS Group, spoke, it was clearly a direct mockery. One thing you do in a public microphone is when you do things, it's something else. One face for the public, and one face is a reality that the public should not notice. But those of us who were in the hall, we noticed that. I therefore argue why it would be a good way to adopt the proposed deadline and the measures that have been put in place by the Slovenian Democratic Party Expert Council. The key argument is - one image says more than a thousand words - actually captured on this graph. Earlier it was said, but seriously misleading or deliberately misleading, "yes, because by the end of 2008, there was only a crisis in the United States." No, no, no, no, no! Ladies and gentlemen, as early as mid-2007, the financial crisis had yet to plummet across Europe, as the European Union had already released over a hundred billion euros in resources in order to maximise the impact of the coming crisis. And the US Central Bank has done the same before. But the European Union has also actively participated with hundreds of billions of euros. This, of course, says that this was the period when the crisis was already here. But look, the entire previous term, here means the blue - average of the European Union, the yellow - average of economic growth in Slovenia. We see that the big difference and always positive for Slovenia, because the average of a community that you belong to, is certainly something that is an objective circumstance or, if you want, a reflection of the sum of objective data at that time, from an economic point of view. What has been added, however, can be the subject of analysis. And if this government, certainly because of its exceptional success in implementing the South Script, deserves to be introduced into a new political concept, we can call this added value expertise and knowledge. This upgraded that average in the European Union and the previous mandate. But in 2009, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer this added value, which was maintained even in 2008, as you can see, although Europe has already fallen considerably in economic growth. There's a surplus of economic downturn. And if we can call it expertise and knowledge, there is clearly an added value of inexplicability and ignorance, which includes mainly contentions in the ruling coalition. Instead of worrying about development, for the economic concept, the coalition is arguing between itself - once Mrs Kresalova makes sure that one of its rounds is heard, the second time from Mr Golobic's circle comes the information back, the third time it is Mr Erjavec's turn and it goes on forever. And the country is waiting. The time wasted on these arguments in the ruling coalition can't be restored, and you all know that very well. And at least they would accept the hand offered to you by the opposition, who has already prepared several packages of real measures that have been put on the table, and again, unfortunately, with a laugh. Since time does not allow me to answer many questions, only three brief points as arguments why it would be good to consider your actions. There was talk of vignettes, numbers demeaning you. More funds were obtained from vinjets than before the introduction of vinjets. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the vinjets have made it possible for the traffic across Slovenia to actually flow, that it is no longer the summers of those columns from Austria to the Croatian border. Guilts have made it possible to increase road safety, and security is a value that is not supposed to have any special price should be above the price. But all this obviously doesn't mean anything to you. A mile along the highway is much safer than a mile along a regional or local road. But obviously, the safety of people is no value to you or their lives. Minister Golobič spoke about centres of excellence, which flourished, but he forgot to say crucially that we have already dealt with this in the Higher Education Committee. Why? Because only three institutions received all the centres of excellence. And look at the miracle, all three with a seat in Ljubljana. However, centres of excellence were thought to have been prepared for longer than a measure to provide additional regional development incentives. All centres of excellence have been awarded, you can check if you want, three institutions: the University of Ljubljana, the Institute of Joseph Stefan and the Chemical Institute. Everyone has their seats in a few hundred meters round the centre of Ljubljana. Whether it's performers, subcontractors or tied-up partners, that's another story. However, the fact remains that this idea was born into centralisation. Just as everything in this coalition is born because it is only worth Ljubljana and buying the votes of certain groups. That turned out to be the last time. Now that we have considered our amendment in the so-called deleted, when we have only proposed that we eliminate from the possibility of obtaining compensation those who were aggressors to Slovenia or speculators and have caused this situation by their own conduct, in which they were found to be purely by their own conduct. Even the coalition wouldn't accept it. And never before has this picture been so clear as to be true. Previously, it has been said that we are dealing with questions of price and wages in public administration. I should like to remind you how the story of the current government, which at the beginning of the day, increased the salary of as many as 45 of its high-ranking staff by as many as five grades of pay grade. And speaking of business, the policy of pay is a lot of confusion, because it's more than obvious from this concrete action that I don't mention the various laws of Squeaks and the like: that there are one criteria for theirs and one criteria for everyone else. In Slovenia, it would be right for everyone to be equal before the law and to think in particular about the economic development of Slovenia, which is the basis for all the same. This can only be done by small and medium-sized enterprises and the appropriate measures that are before you today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have little time left, but the fact is that Slovenia is now in bad times. And in times of distress, it is right for the coalition and the opposition to come together. I really don't understand some of the coalition's debates when they criticised what we actually proposed in good faith. It is a package of measures, good measures, concrete measures. A lot of work has been done. Of course, excuses are that it is unrealistic that there are no calculations, but the government in the same breath is talking about that some or most of these measures that we have already proposed are already being implemented, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On the other hand, you speak of being thoughtless, incomprehensible. [[...]] I'm counting on you in a month to prove exactly what it is you're really gonna take into account or what it is. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, DeSUS? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. [[He's out of time.]] On behalf of the government, any of the ministers want to speak? Mr. Lakhovnik, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Very little time is available, so I will try to be as exact as possible. The proposal for measures proposed by the opposition must be acknowledged, and it would be unfair to say that everything proposed is bad. There are many good things in this proposal, many of which are being implemented, many of which are already in preparation, either in the form of laws or regulations. It is part of such measures that they simply cannot be implemented because there is no financial space for this. As has been said today, the Ministry of Finance has issued a grave assessment that the implementation of all these measures would generate an additional billion euros and a half. This means that the budget deficit would increase by an additional 3.75% and would actually agree on the Greek scenario, which today is the biggest problem in the European Union and is actually ahead of the financial collapse. What must be said is that we are also very supportive of this initiative in terms of drawing on European funds, which is more effective, helping the economy. And this government, this has to be recognised and the data show, has, for the first time, achieved that we have a net position of € 165 million. We get so much net money from the European Union, the difference between what we pay there and what we get from the European Union for the successful withdrawal of funds from Brussels. In the Ministry of Economy alone, we have made eight calls, of which we have supported 1,800 projects with 260 million euros, 1950 companies together, because more companies have participated in individual projects, and we have increased funding by more than 100%. What I would like to point out in particular is that I am running out of time, and the fact that we are talking about proposals, as far as economic stress and facilitation are concerned. What is paradoxical in some way, because we saw a reform that was good by the previous government and based on a reduction in taxes and linear reliefs, is called linear unloading. But there was no selective relief. And then you reasoned reasonably that this is not good, that it is unsystematic, and that this is how we encourage those who are only finding themselves well. There are a lot of selective benefits in this package, for which there is no financial space, because there is an additional burden on the co-financing, and on the other hand there is a shift from what was previously good. We think it would be the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like a word with the motioner? Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Before I respond to some of the allegations made by the representatives of the Government on the third package of anti-crisis measures, let me reiterate once again that this is not a proposal for long-term reforms. Many members of the coalition have said in this sense that we agree on what needs to be done in the long term, and this also says clearly. I'd expect it to be read at least. What we have proposed is counter-crisis measures, not a reform proposal. The proposal for reforms, economic and social, exists and would be right, as I have already said in the introduction, that this government also pulls it out of the drawers and at least identifies itself as to these short-term anti-crisis measures that we have now proposed. So we are not talking about reforms, we will talk about reforms if the government decides to propose them, and if it decides to coordinate them. That'd be right. We're talking anti-crisis measures. I think it's right that when the house burns, first we put out this fire and then we talk about what the new roof will be like. First, it is necessary to put out anti-crisis measures. As it is said, yesterday the government formulated a third response to this third package of measures. That's a compliment. This is a different behavior than we were given last year when we proposed another package and when the government rejected all this arrogantly, if it is not worth doing at all. Some movement here is seen in this material that we have received today on the bench, although the government has quickly, yet it has gathered views from various sources on the measures that are proposed. Some of these views are complete, well-founded, some are written over the thumb and if I were the Prime Minister of the Government, I would very much consider what to do with those who have written things so superficially that it is in some way unworthy of this parliamentary debate. But it doesn't matter, and there's no time for that either. As proponents, we got half the time we had to save the government for the key things, so we wouldn't be talking about it right now. What is crucial, and what we can draw from this material provided by the Government, from the statement by the President of the Government earlier, some members of the coalition and also representatives of the government, is that the Government has great difficulties in arguing some principled position on these proposed measures. This dilemma was expressed very nicely by a journalist who in Dnevnik, who, although owned by members of government parties, wrote yesterday's government meeting: "The government has examined the assembly of the opposition SDS for a way out of the crisis and found that the measures are largely hidden with the government, while the opposition document does not follow the objectives of consolidating public finances by 2013. That's, I'd say, logical nonsense or some hidden self-criticism. First of all, we are accused of having copied everything from the Government, and then we are also criticised that this document does not follow the objective of consolidating public finances by 2013. We've been copied by the government, it's said, the government is not pursuing the goal of consolidating public finances. Also at Monday's meeting of the Committee on the Economy and at least ten times in today's debate, the following were heard from the coalition members: "The SDS measures are mostly prescribed by government, many of which are already implemented by the Government, and the measures are incomplete, without calculations and are financially unsustainable". We'll have to make a decision and make a real assessment. To claim in the same breath that the measures are prescribed that they are bad, but at the same time government measures are good only because they are governmental, and this is the substantive approach that we received last year in the second package, when our measures were rejected because the SDS were written on them. And even now he's trying to take this approach, so you've gone into logical nonsense. If you have already taken half a step further by experiencing a concrete definition of concrete measures, at least in part, then I suggest that we take another half step forward and not judge these measures by what it says in the applicant's position. The measures should be assessed as they are. They are good or bad, but they cannot be estimated by whether they are governmental or opposition, whether they are from one party or another. If any tax relief is proposed, this measure should be assessed irrespective of who gave it. This is also less important than an important fundamental gap in approach and also in effectiveness. Previously, I said that the main problem in the current situation in Slovenia is that not only we, as the Government and the opposition, but also much of the profession and civil society, are significantly different in terms of the approach to take these counter-crisis measures. The Government's approach to these responses to our proposals is in fact the same as the previous government's anti-crisis measures. At the same time, the Government argues that it is successful and effective in finding a way out of the crisis. The President of the Government has repeated this word many times. I expected this full-blown debate on the government side for the first 15, 20 minutes of the debate on this point, that this would be some serious debate and that we would exchange views. After 30 minutes, this enthusiasm gave in, and we almost gave in to gratitude when we finally heard even the Minister of Economic Affairs say a few sentences. There was no debate about this. However, it is claimed that we are successful and effective. Reality shows something else. Almost 10% of Slovenia's gross domestic product decreased last year is catastrophic data. The years were rare in the former Yugoslavia, where gross domestic product fell by 10%. Even in the former Yugoslavia, this was rare for years, and they were already referred to as crisis years. This gross domestic product fell more than once more in Slovenia last year than in the European Monetary Union or in the euro area where we are members. How it is possible to assess reality on the basis of this key data, please answer yourself. We've told you what our opinion is. Now let us see what others say about this. The OECD report on the pre-crisis situation in Slovenia on page 14 states: "A favourable public financial position from the time before the crisis allowed Slovenia sufficient room for fiscal incentives." That's the response of the OECD, the one you were talking about, what a bad legacy this government got. Some of you have laptops here, go to the website of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. On the website of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is certainly not an institution of the opposition, is run by a member of one of the government's parties, exposed in one way or another, is a barometer of government measures, anti-crisis measures. The Chamber of Commerce has proposed some measures, following the measures proposed by the Government. There you have a barometer of 62 measures, which the President of the Government said were successful and effective. The Chamber of Commerce in this barometer - you can open it and look at it - notes that out of 62 measures 41 do not work. Two-thirds of the measures are not operational, 10 are partially operational, 8 are partially operational, because they are mainly in the planning and 3 are in operation. This is the state of the barometer of the action of crisis measures on the Chamber of Commerce website. On 30.12. last year, according to the European Central Bank of the euro area, in which Slovenia also belongs, the Wall Street Journal classified three groups with regard to the stability of public finances: to countries where public finances are not at risk where public finances are not threatened, to a group of countries where stability is partially threatened, and to countries where public finances are highly threatened. And Slovenia belongs after this division - I think that colleague Cernač has already shown once - to a group of highly endangered countries, concerning the stability of public finances. Data from the European Central Bank are used. The situation in Slovenia, according to everyone except the Government and the government coalition, is not good. This is also the opinion of independent institutions in Europe and beyond, where they are assessed on the basis of real data, not on the basis of wishes. The situation is indeed serious and worrying. And that is why the government's response to this proposal for anti-crisis measures is fundamentally flawed. Why? This response, like the Government's action against the crisis, is overcome by one-dimensional accounting logic. This logic was earlier, and thus disappointed me, the Minister of Economy also confessed here. This logic says: higher taxes are more collected in the budget. If we cut taxes, I'm going to take less into the budget, and we're going to put the social state at risk. You have collected much more into the budget, excise duties on motor fuels have increased Mr Pahor's Government by 50% in one year. So much for not getting any reserves. The MP of the government coalition had earlier said what a flawed measure the introduction of vinjets had been. A few days ago, Dars published a report that last year, 30 million euros more were raised from vineyards, 7 billion former tolars and something else, as planned. 30 billion more assets. I don't know what's gonna happen in two years, because you changed the system at the time, and you charged your domestic drivers instead of transit. For once, only 250,000 year-old vignettes were sold. We'll see what the buyout of your new system will be like at the end of the year. Let's hope it's not catastrophic. But for the one accepted by our government and our coalition, the bill has now come and is better for 30 million euros than planned. In its follow-up to accounting logic, the government cannot easily calculate, on any side of this response, how much does the national economy and public finances bring a new job in the economy? It was only calculated how much was budgeted if these tax reliefs we proposed were introduced and you charged a billion and a half. You have not taken into account that we have also proposed many other measures past the tax system, which means saving, I have already mentioned 70 million already in the first year of the five-year phase-out of public administration employees and so on, but this is not essential. It is essential that these measures have a different side and that we propose not an accounting but a dynamic approach. And this approach is exactly the opposite, and it is: the more we create, the more we invest, the more we employ. And with this we get more in the budget, because even though taxes are smaller, if more is generated, with a lower percentage of tax you get more in the budget, this is also the logic of the success of the tax reform that we carried out in part together in 2007. Furthermore, this logic goes on: there are more employees, less social support and compensation for the unemployed. Is that right? Yes, it is. There are more employees, more people's incomes are higher, more consumption is higher, so we also get more inflows from value added tax. Come in. More people are employed, more people are paying income, so the inflows to the budget are also higher by income. There are more employees, higher inflows of contributions to the pension fund and consequently transfers from the budget to cover these losses are lower. There are more employees, more people pay health contributions, so transfers from the budget to the health treasury are lower. Reducing taxes, investment incentives for higher employment, of course, is a risk, but it is reasonable, as this risk allows for a new start, new growth and also new jobs. A mere increase in the budget deficit and public debt for the maintenance of social peace, which was a government strategy last year, is a Russian roulette tactic that counts for a short period of crisis. This account has already partially failed, because the crisis is still going on, and even if we can talk about partial recovery, today it is not an economist in the world and even less in Europe who hopes to predict a rapid recovery. The main talk is about a longer period of stagnation, which means that for a long time we will dream about a gross domestic product than we have created in 2007 or 2008. And now we're going to grow slowly if these forecasts come true, from a state that is almost 10% worse because it was such a fall in gross domestic product last year. So, at least now that this speculation that the crisis will go on its own after a few months, due to the increase in foreign procurement, we should at least now take seriously on the government side by accepting some reasonable risk that gives hope that we ourselves will start creating new jobs. But this in these answers received by the Government, until the end of this final debate, is nowhere to be expected. This, by the way, is also pointed out by all institutions of the economy and crafts sector. At the end, I would also like to reject the division which, since we proposed these measures and also in today's debate, has somehow suggested that the Government has implemented and is also now proposing a social approach to the resolution of the crisis and the opposition, or the SDS, proposes a liberal approach. This division, not only does it not hold that it is simplified, nor does it hold, but it is just a political or ideological excuse. This is not about dividing into a social and liberal approach, but it is about dividing into an effective and inefficient approach. It is also a matter of dividing into a sustainable approach and into an unsustainable approach, which is simply committed to prolonging the existing situation. We could also say that this is a division into a development and stagnation approach. Otherwise, to be perfectly clear, I also ask here present members of the coalition, rare representatives of the government: What do you think is more social: to have a job and a good salary or a social compensation for the unemployed? What do you think is more social? You may find it more social and better to have a regular job and a good salary and afford it to others, especially those who do not have it today. So, the best social policy is a policy of creating new jobs, and I hope that this debate will also bring something into the minds of those who are planning anti-crisis measures in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on the complementary proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Committee on the Economy's home working body and to the amendments tabled by the SDS to the first and second points of the proposal for conclusions and to the title of the proposal for conclusions. According to my review, they have the opportunity to discuss the drafter, the DeSUS Group and Franz Križanič. We stayed or used your time to discuss. Anyone want a word on the motion for conclusions? Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u213	We have deliberately drawn up proposals for conclusions. I am referring to the proposals that we have tabled and which have then been slightly changed by the Committee. As such evidence was at the time of the first proposal of anti-crisis measures that no one, even if he was looking at the matter in such an unwarranted manner, could consider it a populism pressure on the government. In short, we have designed them in terms of recommendations. When we introduced the first measure, we also proposed some legislative proposals and then the government said, because we already know that - to draft laws. Now, we haven't made the laws, though we can. Our Group of Members has some experts. Our expert council does not have any professional staff, but within these deadlines that we have proposed for the Government, we can make proposals for laws ourselves, with all the instruments that are needed. If the government couldn't do it with 1,000 employees, I don't believe it. Of course, there was more or less the same administration in the government, and I know that they are so capable, despite the fact that the current President of the Government says that half of them are superfluous and incompetent. In short, we have proposed some real hands. The Committee has now amended this decision into a general recommendation. This is also a slight improvement, given the conclusions you adopted last year, when all of this was rejected. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this legislative assembly should already be brave and demand some more concrete commitments from the Government. That is why we have proposed additions to these conclusions. As the debate on them later may be a little bit more detailed than the time on each individual, one would like only this, in general, that this argument today by representatives of the government and also members of the government coalition, czech, because we do not need this in some way because the government is preparing an exit strategy. This is not an argument, this is not a reason to oppose our conclusions and proposals. Why? If the Government is preparing this exit strategy and we recommend to the Government that it recommend these measures, it also means that those it thinks are good can use them. And given that there have been quite a few assessments from which it is possible to understand some support or affection for some of these proposals, there should probably be no problem here if there is no re-revelation. For this reason, we propose that the National Assembly commits the Government a little bit more than to some general conclusions that the Government should only consider. Because the government is going to say that she studied it yesterday when she gave a formal answer and it was done. We will be in the SDS Group and our expert council in a month's time, according to the deadline originally set for some of these measures, which can be prepared at this time, to examine for ourselves what has been done. We'll leave things to a general decision that we will or will all forget. So let's not let the government take it too easy. We will also look at these discussions that have been held and get this material from the Government and compare matters. If, in fact, as the Committee on the Economy has said, the Government needs significantly more time for some of these laws, which are relatively very simple, because it is a simple matter and many of them have already made calculations, we will also table these bills ourselves. So, this right that we have as part of the legislative body, we have not given up. But we are giving the opportunity to the Government, which has better access to infrastructure and because it says it is, and in fact it is the first responsibility for this situation to do so first. For this reason, I propose not to support the general decision, but to support more concrete conclusions [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which bind the government more.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment and the proposal for conclusions. In order to vote on the proposal for conclusions and amendments to these decisions, we will pass by 20.55 in accordance with the timetable. I ask that we meet again in the voting room for both items of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u215	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - discusses the Proposal for a Decision concerning the proposal to the Bank of Slovenia to report, within the framework of the constitutional and legislative provisions of the National Assembly, the suspicions of corrupt financing by companies whose shareholders are holders of public functions in the executive and legislative branches of government at state level, by commercial banks in majority state ownership, at the time of the worst credit crunch. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20.1.2010. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to the decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u216	Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Finance wanted to defuse the original intention of the applicants of this extraordinary meeting in order for the Bank of Slovenia to deal seriously with the situation. This is due to the fact that more than obviously loans are granted to undertakings on different bases and on different criteria than to ordinary economic operators. So when it comes to important political officials, societies whose co-owners are obviously treated differently and the criteria are adapted to the influence of these people. Since May last year, when she has made an anonymous call to the public on inadequately secured loans to the Ultra Group by the New Ljubljana Bank, what has been published as the data of the New Ljubljana Bank has not been accurately explained and demarcated to date. Even the New Ljubljana Bank has never refused to do so. So it remains more than reasonable to suspect that the data is accurate. The parliamentary committee for the supervision of public finances also failed to prove itself because it did not receive data. And, look, new data is coming, of course, on the basis of the misleading and inaccurate statements made by Minister Golobic. Today, in particular, we have obtained new information that these loans approved by Ultra have also been reprogrammed. The minister denied it here twice today, then repented at five at the press conference and admitted that he did not know. Here before the parliamentarians he claimed that the loans had not been reprogrammed, but finally he said that they had been reprogrammed because he did not know about it. How can we trust such a minister with any statement? We take him for Laska, we have the paper, and then he believes us. You know how many times he's lied to you, and since there's no paper, you can't prove it to him. I don't want to sit alone with such a minister in any government. And, with due respect, we propose the original text of the proposal of the applicants to this decision, which is why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support this decision. Today's debate revealed who the liars are in this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much. A respected magus. Vizjak, I did not interrupt you because I would interpret this as protecting the Minister, but you abused the explanation of the vote and disputed with a man who cannot answer you at this stage of the consideration of the proposal at the assembly. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, but please, no controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members, I really say that we will vote against this amendment because today's debate - I have to start where it just ended - has proved who was right and who was wrong. The papers of the New Ljubljana Bank showed that Ultra's loans were secured, although there were eight or six months of speeches that were not true. On the basis of the data we received, we have seen that the credits have been adequately secured and have also been properly recovered. Obviously, many times more will have to be distributed, not on our part, but because we will be drawn to the language and will have to answer some things that are not true. That's why we're going to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 30, for 44. [[It's 30 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u220	The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this amendment. There are several reasons for supporting this amendment. One of the essentials is that the data to be obtained under this amendment was requested by the Commission for the supervision of public finances which it had not received in a long time by the Commission six months ago. In drawing up this question, the Commission has drawn up a questionnaire on several pages for the supervision of public finances and there has been no concrete answer to any of the specific questions raised. The second reason why the Group of Members will support this amendment is the statements made at today's meeting, and I will quote one: "Today, when these loans are about two million euros and a half this insurance is three times the value of these loans. None of these loans have been reprogrammed." The end of Mr Gregor Golobic's quote, which he stated as Minister in his capacity as Director of Ultra, was at least what I thought. For the second part of the statement we heard his public apology after the closing point, but we did not hear an apology for the first part of the statement, which does not. In short. Not only continues to mislead the National Assembly and the public; more! What has led the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to request this extraordinary meeting and to consider this item on the agenda has happened in the most plastic manner today, here, in the National Assembly. It is therefore essential that this amendment be supported and supported by the Group of Members. There was an unequal treatment when someone, on behalf of a company in a ministerial chair, could explain certain things that had nothing to do with its ministerial function. This has shown in the most plastic manner that some in this country are privileged and that they are subject to different rules of the game than all other directors and co-owners of different companies, which you have repeatedly been unduly discredited in this or other way in the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to support or, with the proposal of this amendment, enable all information in this matter to be presented in a transparent manner to both the National Assembly and the public. If this amendment is not followed by broader support, then I think that what we've been talking about for a long time about talking about a new policy, about the fight against customerism, and so on only empty words by some. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, you are given the same warning as before for the Mag. A visionary. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Melita Župevc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats of this amendment will not support it. Why? Because this amendment proposes to the Bank of Slovenia to act contrary to the law. Those who have raised their voices before me are well aware of the Bank of Slovenia Act and know what the Bank of Slovenia Act imposes on the Bank of Slovenia. And it is not possible to report on specific cases in plenary session of the National Assembly. The Commission of Inquiry has certain powers and the Commission of Inquiry may come up with data that have been exposed today. The National Assembly in the manner we propose or demand from the Bank of Slovenia to this data, unfortunately, cannot come. As he said well on the Finance Committee of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, the key question is: Where will this end?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Vito Rojej on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I listened to today's debate, and we all know that Gregor Golobič didn't speak as Director of Ultra, because he can't be, because he's only employed in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u225	Colleagues, without polemics [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u226	I'm explaining the facts. And that fact, of course, should be known to anyone who has at least ever read some paper, whether it's a fake or a real thing. Today the truth was not sought here because it is similarly evident as an obvious directorate. Although if I'm quoting a colleague of mine, that's what I thought, maybe that's true. And it's not really a problem, it's a question of expectations. Of course, speculation is not a matter of what this high assembly should be dealing with, but these expectations should be used in other professions. Unfortunately, the last expert in this field is no longer a member of the National Assembly. That is why this amendment cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u227	Mag. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will not support the amendment at the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It was clear in this debate on the Committee and today it has been found that, of course, the politicisation of the banking system and the demand for the political definition of the Bank of Slovenia to that country, to these taxpayers, and especially to those who give and hire credits, is causing great harm. And what we did on the basis of political pressure in these two days was certainly not good for Slovenia in its search for crisis exits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell in his own name. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This amendment cannot be supported because the proponents of this point and this amendment are not concerned about public finances, but have used some information that is less important in terms of borrowing banks and loans in order to disqualify one of our ministers. I think it is right to reject such amendments, which are essentially harmful, because the only added value of today's debate and this amendment is the enormous cost of this meeting, which was unnecessary, politically motivated and contemporary action of the opposition, which in all ways interferes with the functioning of the National Assembly also with such unnecessary meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u232	Mr President, I didn't mean to come by, but I have something important to say. It's amazing, it's amazing that I'm listening to the discussions I've been hearing here today. And you'll probably say, Mr President, that I can't argue. And I'm not going to embalm it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u233	Right, Mr. Pojbich, right. Please proceed, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u234	It is amazing that individuals who have been shown to have abused this law are defending the law. At the very least, what I would expect of those responsible for adopting legislation is that if they find that individuals can abuse legislation to change this legislation so that it cannot happen. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u235	Peace in the hall, no comment!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u236	Mr President, the ladies who have just challenged me would only say the following - that what she has done now is irresponsible from the MP to bother me with explaining my personal position, why I will support this amendment. On the other hand, Mrs Pečanova is in a group of people who advocate the law, which can be abused by the Minister. Mrs. Pecanova, if this is your post. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u237	Mr. Pojbich, the controversy is impossible. Please! Please, Mr. Pojibich!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u238	In the legislative branch of power, then I am very sorry to be sitting in the National Assembly. [[...]] And believe me, Mr President, that you are a correctional person, that I cannot allow those who violate the law to behave this way in the National Assembly. Nobody in the National Assembly has that right! Neither does the minister, and it doesn't matter who he is, which party he's from; he can't and can't break the law! But if I go back a little bit, I would like a very clear answer: Who has adopted this Banking Act? You know exactly who was in power - it was the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. All those who sit here [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Respectable. Today's debate has shown very well the power of the public word. What the minister said about 12: 00 p.m. or even later, he had to demente himself and spill his ashes a few hours later. Even though he said that everything was a lie, all false, he accused journalists who had already answered him today and so on. And look, you still want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u241	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u242	Still, you want to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u243	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u244	To defend irregularities, to defend the crimes of economic crime and so on. [[...]] You're setting up a national investigation office for cover, but don't let things clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u245	Mr. Jerovšek. We're really going too far from explaining our voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u246	And it's clear that inadequately secured loans "tulle" if I paraphrase a poet who said something else about what he was saying. And "trouble" will also continue these loans if today you bypass the possibility to transparently put on the table what has been done, what and how - because it is in your favour and in the interest of Slovenian society to clear things up as soon as possible. For if you persist so long as you prefer to sacrifice that the Ljubljana Bank and other state banks will need to be rehabilitated at the expense of protecting the irregularities committed by politicians or those who have functions in this country. So, make up your mind. Unsecured loans "shut" and will "shut".
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, in a six-hour debate, we heard a lot of different information about what Ultra's credits are and how they are secured. There were figures from the Minister, data from members of the coalition parliamentary groups, the parliamentary group, including some of the data that were made available to the public and clearly there is a major conflict between these data. Also, what is particularly interesting is that the minister, who was very vehemently claiming and speaking here numbers, spoke about the quality of the loans, that he himself got involved in certain claims and then apologized to the public. Dear fellow Members, in order to avoid these different interpretations, it would be right to call on banks in Slovenia to actually get real information on what the actual situation in this area is for that group. I think that, in fact, all matters would be put on the line that the Bank of Slovenia is also the one who, both by the constitution and by law, is obliged to report to the Members of the National Assembly, on its own initiative, it has this written down, but can also, at the request of Members, also at the request of the National Assembly. And I suggest that you support this request, that we get the right information and that we can also give the right comments and the right interpretations. I don't think what you're doing to one of the actors, one of the groups of systematic protection, is a suitable approach. Such a selective approach, such an exceptional approach to some, does not go well in the Slovenian public. To avoid this, I suggest that you support this amendment, so that Members and the public can also get what actually happened with this group and in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members, 30 to 45. [[It's 30 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present for 55, against 7. [[It's 55 votes.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the Third package of crisis measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia: The fight against the crisis is the fight for new jobs. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled, of 20. 1. 2010 We are moving on to decision-making at Amendment 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Member Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u250	We will, of course, support this amendment and appeal to all other Members and Members to do the same. With this amendment to point 1, we propose that the key decision of the National Assembly regarding the consideration of the third package of anti-crisis measures should also be substantially defined. Because we propose that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to support the direction of the proposed measures and recommend that the Government study them carefully. We have tried to explain earlier what is the key difference between this third package of crisis measures, given what we have adopted so far on the basis of the Government's proposals for a solution to the economic crisis. The key added value of this third package of anti-crisis measures is that we are also trying to change the situation but not just to preserve it. For in one year, when the situation was only preserving, the government has dramatically increased its public debt and Slovenia will not be able to withstand such a pace of indebtedness. Although we have increased this public debt, the number of unemployed has increased by 50%, depending on 2008. With only the artificial maintenance of the existing situation and existing jobs, it is obvious that the Government, despite spending billions on it, has not been successful. Of course, not all these social policy funds went as they had tried to show up, but it was easy to increase public spending on the basis of a coalition contract in the year when the crisis hit with all its force. During the first eight months of last year, consumption is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u251	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u252	increased by 10%, although revenues decreased by 6.5%, at a time when the government also said we were in the middle of a crisis. [[...]] This happened on the basis of the budget rebalancing, which was one of the first measures to deepen the crisis. We now propose in this third package that we finally start doing something different, that we start creating conditions for growth and new jobs, because this is the only way to increase the resources that we also need for social measures to mitigate the crisis. It is a recent time for us to take the development path as well, and for this reason, we propose, [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] that the National Assembly should also define those measures in order to support them. We are not making any more concrete commitments to the government, but we are expressing some willingness to finally address this direction of crisis resolution. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to point 2, on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Janez Janša. Please. It's probably been a while, just a moment. Let's wait! We need a minute. Please, Mr. Janša, I think it should work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u254	We will support this amendment. By means of this amendment, we propose to the Government that within one month it propose amendments or additions to certain laws that can also be drawn up at this time. It is the Public Finance Act, the Guarantee Scheme Act, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act, the Insurance Act, the Compulsory Traffic Insurance Act, the Road Traffic Safety Act and several other laws to amend it with this third package of measures. The list is a relatively long one, but it is a matter of, technically speaking, minor legislative additions where the content of the proposed measures, including explanations, is already written. As I have said before, our Group of Members, although having at least 1,000 times fewer resources than the Government has, will do so if the Government fails to prepare these changes and complements at this time. However, we will lose if we follow this path, of course more time, so we suggest that the National Assembly commits the Government to this deadline. This is not an unrealistic deadline; in fact, it is too late for some of these measures, so it would be good to hurry. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We're voting. [[...]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment myself. It may not be particularly necessary to say that these proposals, which are listed here, are such that we can also draw them up in the Group of Members. However, I certainly expect Mr Križanič to take this action at least as much as for the doctoral dissertation of his staff in his office. I hope that we will also be able to get proposals for solutions to the laws that Slovenia urgently needs by engaging in the academic sphere, college and new PhDs in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-20-SDZ5-Izredna-18.ana.u257	Mr. Tanko, I think your explanation for the voice was very incorrect. Minister Križnic can't answer you and I don't think that's right, and in some developed parliamentary democracy. We vote on the first amendment of the SDS Group to the second point. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to point 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SDS Group to point 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to point 2. We're voting. May I have peace in the hall, please? There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment of the SDS Group to point 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth amendment of the SDS Group to point 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the title of the complementary draft act of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for an amendment to the title of the draft act has not been adopted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night!
