ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole, Bogdan Barovic, Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlich, mag. Branko Grimes, Janez Janša and only Bevk from 12 o'clock on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LITTLE PART, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 12 Members and Members, with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Small Work Bill, which regulates occasional and casual work of pensioners, students, students, unemployed and inactive persons. This means that everyone will carry out this work as a complement to their basic activity or status, which they maintain or do not lose in a small way. With the introduction of small work, we want to increase the flexibility of the labour market, while ensuring adequate security for all who perform occasional and occasional work. Employers have been warning for a long time that rapid response to labour market needs is a condition for maintaining the competitiveness of businesses and therefore are increasingly being used in such forms. More and more people are already doing work of a temporary or occasional nature, so a clear framework should be set for the performance of these works, standards should be set and comparable labour rights and social security rights should also be ensured for these workers. The bill on small work also regulates the occasional and occasional work of students and students. In this area, we have been seeing the need for radical changes for years, and we have been warned by the European Commission on several occasions, even this year, by the current system of student work which does not have time constraints and is not included in the social security system and does not provide students with any rights. In the preparation of the Small Work Act, we have come from the objective that small work should also continue to allow for flexible first contact between students and students with the labour market. The basic idea of this work is to complement studies, to gain practical experience and to acquire funds to finance the student’s interest activities. Small work is defined in the bill as paid temporary, occasional or longer-term work of up to 60 hours per month. The exception applies to students and students who, due to their study obligations, are allowed to do little work for several hours a month, but must not exceed 720 hours in the calendar year. By limiting the number of hours of small work, a clear distinction is established between the small work institute and the working relationship, which is important in terms of the protection of the working relationship, which is the primary form of employment and gives the worker the most rights. The time-limit is also in line with the OECD Standard, which defines small work as one that lasts up to 14 hours per week. However, restrictions are also imposed on employers who cannot build their activities only on small jobs, but they must also base their activities on offering regular working relationships or employment. From a small part, contributions for pension and disability insurance and for a total health insurance of 15,5 % will be paid and the employer is obliged to pay a small part benefit of 14 %, which is the same as the current student and student concession fee. The amount of the levy shall, as a maximum percentage, be allocated for the financing of scholarships and the construction and maintenance of student homes. Part of the benefit will be allocated to the risk fund, the functioning of student organisations, the implementation of projects aimed at students, pensioners and the unemployed. All recipients of the levy will have to take into account all public funding rules, including procurement rules, in the use of these funds, which also means a more efficient and cost-effective use of these funds. The small work will be carried out as a non-profit activity, the small part will be carried out by the travel agency, which now applies to student work, but with built-in fuses, which will ensure the regular payment of employers for the little work done or the more effective recovery of unpaid obligations. In the event of non-payment by the employer, we introduce special protection for the person who will do little work in order to ensure payment of work from the common risk fund. It is also important that the Small Work Bill establishes an effective way of monitoring and control in this area, and also lays down significantly higher sanctions for employers and individuals who violate the provisions of the law. In order to effectively implement, monitor and monitor small work, it is also crucial to establish a centrally informed register of small work to be carried out by the Slovenian Employment Institute and to provide ongoing data on the work done for the individual and the employer, and direct access to the records is also possible for the supervisory authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! The proposal for a small work law is based on the flexibility of the labour market, which is now under student work, while guaranteeing basic social security rights. It will also lay down the rights and procedures for the implementation of the possibility of occasional and temporary work for pensioners. The law will also significantly reduce black work, which is also one of the objectives of the proposed law, which will also allow longer-term limited work of students, students, pensioners, unemployed persons and other inactive persons for a maximum of 60 hours a month. For students and students there will be an exception to perform several hours per month, but not more than 720 hours per calendar year. There is a question of the difference between small work and part-time work. The difference is only detected in the part where the law refers to rights arising from a working relationship. This is presented in the bill itself, where it is said that little work does not burden labour costs from a working relationship such as retirement, transport to work, summer leave and the like. The proposed hourly limits of small work are also defined in the part that talks about employers with a different number of employees, small and micro enterprises. Of course, there is a dilemma about the possibility of breaking up large jobs into small jobs and lending passengers under another name, especially when an individual reaches the limit of hours, only so that he can continue his work. The employer, who employs up to 10 workers, will be able to employ 6 small workers according to the proposal and there are 92.4% of such companies in Slovenia. According to media data, the number of full-time workers in countries where little work has already been carried out has decreased significantly and the proportion of small parts has increased by three times. In view of the profit figures that say that the gross hourly item is EUR 4 and the annual earnings are up to EUR 6 000, we can ask ourselves about the possibility of small-time survival. Gross salaries of all employees in Slovenia at the annual level amount to around €17 billion, while all regular, extraordinary, students and students earn about €300 million per year through the student service. The student and student benefits are thus about half lower than the cost of transport to work and about 30 times lower than the assessment of the scope of the grey economy, which is only 2% of the total Slovenian market. However, students are highly competitive in their work in the labour market, as their average remuneration for businesses represents only about 55% of the cost of an average paid worker. However, they are not competitive with those who work for minimum wage. 70% of the students' work is less difficult and physical, some of which are also done by students who use theoretical knowledge, and only 17% are those who represent and fill very difficult work, where knowledge is needed through studies and will also benefit from later employment. The purpose of the law is to include all forms of work in the support mechanisms for social stores, so that everyone has the right to social security and adequate safety in the labour market. Trade unions, of course, have concerns, as unfair competition has been strengthened, and the pressure of socially disadvantaged people should also be exploited. They also point to the abuse of the law by employers who prefer to work through small jobs rather than for a certain period of time. This is the story that I mentioned that the countries that already have this are facing just an increase in small work. The fact is that we need a small work law, so it would be right for all participants to take time in the process and to prepare a law that will be acceptable to all, both for students and for employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the LDS Club, I would like to point out that, in our view, the proposal for a small work law needs to be understood together in a package of proposed amendments to the labour law and must be viewed and evaluated in the framework of this whole in order to be fully understood. At the LDS Club, we positively assess the decision of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs that all forms of occasional and casual employment will be uniformly regulated by the Small Work Act, which will be carried out by half of the students and pensioners. This will enable everyone to have equal access to shorter jobs and to increase monthly incomes to improve their material position. We understand the common treatment as the application of the principle of solidarity between different generations and different stakeholders. The aim of the new law is also to reduce work to black and reduce the grey economy, as it is a small job for a legitimate, possibility of additional earnings. In doing so, we would like to remind you that little work is not a perfect novelty, as it has already been introduced by the law on prevention of work and employment in black. In doing so, it should be noted that the solutions in the law did not allow social security to be applied under a small work contract, which will now be clearly and accurately regulated in the Small Work Act. Small work will continue to maintain its flexible character and benefits for the employer after the proposal, as its burden will be around 29.5%, which is less than the burden of a regular working relationship. Furthermore, contributions to the health and pension allowance will be paid more than in any part, which we consider to be the right and just solution. In doing so, we point out that contributions to medical bills are being or are not knowingly mixed with student health insurance. Students are insured through their parents, and it is money in the health department that makes such insurance possible. However, contributions to the small-scale health care facility mean ensuring the scope of rights at a higher level and thus improving the health care of all. The employer will pay a new contribution in case of injuries at work and occupational diseases. In this way, they will be better insured than they have been so far. The implementation of small work will also be counted at the retirement age, as these solutions, in our opinion, bring positive improvements to the regulation so far. We would also point out that student work represents only 4% of all working hours, but in the employment segment up to 30 years of age it represents as much as 15% of all active young people. The 2010 study entitled Economic aspects of student work proves that the student population is not only unfair competition for its fellow graduates, but also unfair competition for young unskilled workers up to 30 years. As a result of the benefit for employers, students continue their undergraduate studies and maintain their student status by copying between educational institutions. The student's salary represents only 55% of the cost of an average paid worker. It is therefore extremely important for us to propose other appropriate and necessary solutions to this law. In the opinion of the LDS, one of these must also be the necessary arrangements for the single entry record to eliminate those anomalies. Due to student and student protests and their disagreement with the bill, it is clear that students with a new law will not be deprived of the opportunity to work, but it is true that a small proportion of students and students, which is limited to 720 hours a year, is limited. Already, 80% of students perform fewer hours than is foreseen in the law. During the course of the study at the LDS Club, we view the work as positive, as students are taking on work experience and liaising with prospective employers. However, we are convinced that the main student obligation is to carry out study obligations. Therefore, in the LDS, we insist that the State should create such conditions that will enable all those who want to study, regardless of the social status and position of the individual. We therefore support the implementation of the Small Work Act only as of 1 January 2012, when, according to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, already established state grants will be higher and higher. On the basis of these assurances, we also give support at the LDS Club in the first reading to that law. At the same time, we stress the positive changes to the granting of a state grant, which means raising the award price to EUR 600 per family member. We also make a positive assessment of the additional elements and criteria for raising the amount of the scholarship according to the success of the studies, the deficit study course and the distance from the place of residence. They will also allow the scholarship to reach over €400. A lot of controversy and conflicting opinions are linked to height and, above all, to the division and purpose of small part duties, which together represent 14 %. We support the solution that small work benefits will be allocated to scholarships and new student homes to the greatest extent possible, with pensioners and the unemployed contributing to this fund. With the scholarships already mentioned, they would stress the need for the following conditions for the implementation of study obligations. This is the need to provide the necessary accommodation for students, so we support the defined purpose of these funds. Part of the funding will be intended to create, in our opinion, the necessary risk fund to be established to cover employers' defaults, court fees and recovery costs. Part of the funding will also be devoted to the interesting work of the students, which we consider necessary and necessary. Therefore, in the LDS, we advocate the autonomy of student activity, which is not limited by law, as the funds for the operation of student organisations are maintained, and a different system for the distribution of work for which other youth organisations can run after a new one will also enhance the diversity and diversity of projects of student, student and youth organisations, which will contribute to strengthening the entire Slovenian youth sector. By limiting the number of hours that may be involved in small work, the possibility of abuse will also be reduced in the event that a regular working relationship is needed in a job. Since a number of warnings have been heard that the consequences of the introduction of the law will be quite the opposite, in LDS we also expect more effective work from the inspectorate for work, as the abuse of the students' travels in the field of work has been found very rarely, although a number of warnings of abuse have been heard in the public. In order to prevent abuse, the law also introduces restrictions on the number of persons involved in small work with an individual employer according to the number of employees. Due to warnings from employers that they will be very limited in the recruitment of labour for larger and shorter events, in the event of fairs, events, in the LDS Member Club, we support a more appropriate solution where the restriction is recorded as a monthly limitation of hours of small work performed by the employer. In view of the eager responses of the public and some of the social partners in view of the comments and opinions that have been made, much attention has been paid in the LDS to the exchange of views and views on the content of the law with both the proposer and the stakeholders. We've done a lot of talking, looking for acceptable solutions and answers to exposed dilemmas. In doing so, we have been warned by representatives of student services that 2% of the duties are too low for labour. In view of the arguments of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which, in proof of the correctness of the calculations, offers the functioning of the Employment Service, which provides more services for less money, it will certainly be an opportunity to exchange additional arguments further in the adoption of the law. In this regard, the warnings relate mainly to the payment of health checks and their number. During the debate on the law, fear was also expressed on the basis of the experience of other countries in order to make a certain layer and a certain number of workers totally dependent on the small work they would do with several employers and thus become trapped in a small circle without the possibility of regular employment and thus trapped in the trap of poverty. In view of international comparisons, we agree with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs' assessment that our system is different, that the wage line is linked to the minimum wage. In doing so, it should be stressed that the unemployed will be included in small jobs on a voluntary basis. Their basic objective, together with the Employment Service, will continue to be to seek regular employment and active employment programmes. It is important that the unemployed keep in contact with the work, with employers, so that they will be working with little work to find a employer for regular work through small work. Now they're looking for this job in black and gray economy. Since warnings from students, unions and others seem very important to us, we support the proposed solution in the law, which provides for the establishment of an expert committee to monitor the implementation of small work. It will monitor the implementation of the law in practice and, through its work, it will be possible to address possible problems and derogations from the stated objectives of the law. Since the Small Work Act has stirred up a wide range of stakeholders and because there are still very negative views on the proposed content of the law, in the LDS Club we also see today's debate as an opportunity to find the best solutions. In doing so, we have a positive assessment of the improvement of the legal text so far, and we will be able to complete it by the second reading. In doing so, we want to continue to agree on the content of finding the best solutions in the context of social dialogue. At the LDS Club, we will support the proposal of the law at first reading, while at the same time we expect answers and solutions to the open dilemmas by which we can upgrade the legal text accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dejan Levanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u8	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Small Work Act is an integral part of the Slovenian exit strategy for 2010–2013 and, as such, is set up as a whole in the anticipated changes in the labour market. As there are today different forms of casual and occasional work, which are also defined in several laws, their implementation is also very different. It also varies significantly according to the rights and security of those who do. Employers are increasingly using non-standard forms of work, and more and more people are doing work that is of an occasional and opportunity nature, so it is imperative to set a clear framework for the performance of these works, set standards and ensure comparable work rights and social security rights for these workers. The inclusion of non-standard forms of work in social security is also important for the maintenance of the social state. With the introduction of small work, we also want to reduce the scope of work and employment in black, as this introduces some legal possibility of carrying out paid work, which may also have elements of working relationship under more favourable conditions for the employer. The bill on small work also regulates the occasional and occasional work of students and students. We want the law to establish a system that will more effectively protect the rights of students and students and provide them with adequate security in the labour market while maintaining some positive aspects of the current regulation of student work. According to data from the Eurostudent study, Slovenian students on average break into lectures and other study obligations 18 hours a week and take up individual study work for another 17 hours a week. In addition, they devote 17 hours a week to paid work, thus taking the average student 52 hours a week. The Bologna process requires even more intensive work of students, according to a higher education study, so the burden of students with study obligations has increased in recent years. The Eurostudent also notes that the workload of students affects studies when the workload exceeds 15 hours per week. Students therefore spend a lot of time working in the study, so studies take longer than they do. Social Democrats believe that it is necessary to create the conditions for a student to be able to study more and less. The student work, as we know it today, is certainly a social correction that has allowed many to afford it at all. Although studies in Slovenia are expected to be free of charge. And student work today is one of the most neoliberal forms of work, because it does not offer any security for students. That is why we all need to answer the key question together when adopting the Small Work Act :Does the Small Work Act harm the student? When we examine the arguments, we see the answer that this is not true and that this is not the purpose of the law. On the contrary. For students, this law means a lot of gain. Let's see why. By means of this law, we will meet the two objectives that are necessary. The first objective is the social security of students. The student will be involved, according to the law on small work, pension, disability and health insurance, his working hours will run and his work experience will be recognised. This is particularly important because a young person is required to have a job experience when he is involved in the labour market, although he does not have any work at the time of the study. And the second goal is to give him the conditions for a student to study. These are scholarships. In the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, Slovenia is receiving the number of scholarships that it has not had in history. The price of 300 euros per family member increases to 600 euros per family member, which represents a 100% increase of about 10,000 scholarships. By the time of the biggest crisis, in 2009, we had increased the price to 68% of the minimum wage, to 70% for children coming from single parent families or children with special needs. So we've already increased the scholarship censorship, and now this censorship is changing from minimum to average pay. Unlike the other two groups, which I will talk about a little later, i.e. the pensioners and the unemployed, the student will also be able to adapt his study process to work for 14 hours per week or 60 hours per month or four months per year. In doing so, he will be able to make 6,000 euros. Already today, more than 80% of students are below this earning margin. Such a financial law on the small work of students will not limit, and on the other hand we will have many more scholarships. The minimum hourly rate is also set. This is recorded in the Small Work Act and amounts to 4 euros. According to the current system, the labour market was completely abandoned, ranging from 2 euros to 35 euros per hour. Abuses are also being eliminated, as there are no restrictions and checks in the process of issuing travel tickets today. However, the Small Work Act has built-in security guards that will act primarily preventively. Students will be protected from those who don't pay. This is happening to a lot of students, and unfortunately they're running out of money and no protection. Every student service is supposed to have its own risk fund today, with its rules, which means the unequal position of students. Many of the student service of the risk fund did not even have or was exhausted in the first half of the year. The Small Work Act provides for a common risk fund to be managed by the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, where students, in particular those who will not be paid by employers, can also recover this payment from the Fund. The financing of student organisations and student services is also a big apple of the dispute. These are gradually decreasing in the small work law, but they will still have so much, and this, of course, ensures that they can act, maintain their autonomy so that projects for students can function smoothly in the future. According to the Small Work Act, the funds are allocated to finance scholarships and the construction and maintenance of student homes as a percentage of the total. On the basis of the principle of intergenerational solidarity, the funds for their purpose will be provided by both students and students, as well as pensioners, the unemployed and other inactive persons. The smaller part of these funds will therefore be dedicated to the risk fund, the functioning of student organisations, the implementation of projects aimed at students and, of course, pensioners, the implementation of an active employment policy and support, recording and monitoring of small work. With stricter rules on the use of the tax resources, we want to achieve, above all, a more efficient and cost-effective use of these funds, which have been used today without supervision. And it is right that the funds are controlled and that the state has a say in this. The Small Work Bill provides that the pensioners and the unemployed will also be able to do little work. When we talk about unemployed people, it must be said that it is imperative that the unemployed person be given the opportunity to maintain active contact with the labour market and employers during the period of unemployment, while maintaining some working habits and enhancing knowledge and skills, while at the same time earning at least partially replacing the loss of regular income. Active inclusion in the labour market will make a person less exposed to the trap of long-term unemployment and, at the same time, strengthens his self-image with activity. It is also important that small hours of work are counted for the unemployed, including during retirement and working experience, which, of course, will help them to find a regular job. Small work can also lead to regular employment, as this way the employer can learn and test the worker in the workplace and the institution can, through active employment policy measures, encourage the transition of the unemployed to a regular working relationship, of course. While doing small work for an unemployed person will not constitute an obligation or a loss of the rights enjoyed as an unemployed person, doing small work must not prevent the unemployed from finding a regular job. The RS Employment Office will not travel the unemployed to a small job, but rather will decide on a voluntary basis. The possibility of carrying out small jobs is in favour of unemployed persons, giving them the opportunity to earn additional earnings and also increasing their ability to obtain regular employment, I am talking about new work experience, social exclusion, without affecting their rights arising from unemployment insurance. So far, the unemployed have not had this option, so much work and services have been done in black, including through student travels issued to other students with student or student status. During the period until the second reading, however, we want to carry out some more coordination with the ministry, because we do not want the good idea of including the unemployed into a system where they will be in the vicious circle of small work and will not come into regular employment. Protectors already exist in the law, but we have a view of trade unions that reminds us of certain traps. Therefore, additional measures may be taken by the Social Democrats to reduce the possibility of abuse and the negative effects of small work on the unemployed, such as the fact that only the competent employment unit can issue to the unemployed, thus maintaining full control of the job seeker's activity. The institution may also refuse to issue a travel allowance if it considers that the unemployed will not improve the employment opportunities with the intended small work. Another such proposal is that the time of work, the hours of work and the end of work should be precisely entered on the low-employment tickets, thus reducing the possibility of abuse of small work for black work and also of inspectoral supervision in this case. For all of us must be in our interest, especially in these times, that as many people as possible are employed and that they have the fundamental rights they belong to them, so the Social Democrats will support the Small Work Act in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The law, like many laws prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has a good purpose, but it is very poor in implementation. In addition, the ministry has traditionally poorly planned financial consequences, and we do not know on the basis of which some of the analyses have taken place or take into account certain periods of so-called fat cows or years when some things have been at the highest level, and on this basis they are also planning for the future. Again, like some others under the same umbrella, the law brings together three different groups, with different needs and characteristics of each group, i.e. pensioners, students and unemployed. We estimate that the law can be much better if it is written and prepared for one group, as it covers all variants and also the specifics of a particular group. Above all, the Ministry would be expected to conduct interviews with all three groups it is preparing, to listen to their proposals, and then to Parliament with at least about a harmonised proposal for a law. This time, however, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs ignores those who are appointed by law. Some say that social dialogue has died, that there is no dialogue between the social partners, despite the fact that you have written in the coalition agreement: "For the effective implementation of security flexibility it is necessary to ensure the active cooperation of the social partners and the willingness of stakeholders to adopt legislative changes." In the talks, representatives of students and pensioners, trade unions, except that the pensioners did not once participate, or the talks were held at different levels when someone was speaking and the others were listening, but they did not hear. Someone writes laws that they say are intended for these specific groups, but they don't invite them, not listen to their arguments. This apparently also brought them together to oppose and continue to oppose the small work law. We had a similar case in the law on subsidised working time. It was not agreed by employers, trade unions, and protested before parliament. The Minister insisted, we have reduced resources in the budget several times for this purpose, in some companies extended the agony for several months, as we receive daily information that companies receiving these subsidies are closing down, bankruptcy and workers are being fired, straw companies are being set up and so on. The social agreement adopted during the previous government has already expired and we would expect the new government to agree on a new social agreement with the social partners, agree on how they will talk and negotiate with the social partners. However, this agreement is not, which obviously means that there is no need for the Pahor government to talk and negotiate with the social partners. This is not what we agree to in our Group of Members. In the previous mandate, we have made a lot of efforts to coordinate proposals, not only with the social partners, but also with the opposition at the time, because we believe that a social agreement on key reforms and solutions is needed and the only guarantee that solutions are then appropriate and best for most people. The work of students is today regulated by the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. I guess marriage would really need some improvement. The changes in the past have significantly increased the control over the work of student services. Certain anomalies and irregularities have been corrected. Years ago, he even had a way of reporting, and additional reporting on all the instructions issued to the Labour Inspectorate. This was later abolished, however, probably due mainly to the fact that it was re-reporting rather than possibly electronic, which would have caused less red tape and less documentation, which the inspectorate probably could not even process. However, this was a good way for the inspectorate to be informed at the beginning before the student work was carried out, that such work was taking place, and that all the key information needed to control it was good. It seems inappropriate for us to limit student work without at the same time regulating other areas. The Ministry promises new scholarships, but the law is not yet, despite the fact that the Government's normative plan has been entered in 2010. Following the initial proposal, it is expected to enter into force already with 1. 1. In 2011, the implementation was then postponed to 1. 9. 2011. In the light of experience, it is likely that there will be further withdrawals in the future because we find that the laws are poorly prepared, and then we extend their time of enforcement so that in those short months we can ensure everything that is necessary to enforce the law. In advance, the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, the law on social transfers, will enter into force, by which you abolish a scholarship for underage students. According to this logic, scholarships would be smaller, but not more, as an important part of these students are receiving scholarships today, and they will obviously not be available in the future. In our Group of Members, we believe that the field of student work is urgently needed to be regulated, but we are wondering whether this is the right way. We also support the proposal that student work be more taxed, that it will not constitute unfair competition, and that students also have certain benefits from this title, that their working hours are running and so on. However, such things and such fundamental changes are being done gradually. You can't actually increase taxes by 100% overnight, because that means a problem for both employers and students themselves. In our opinion, the law will not in itself restrict student work and regulate this area, at least not in the part where the most abuse is committed. I've already said something about it. This would be much more effective by making an appropriate register of enrolments in higher education institutions, by linking and tightening the conditions for status also by amending tax legislation, says the above-mentioned higher taxation, but not by 100 % or more. We might be thinking about more taxation of revenues over a certain amount, because by overly restricting student work we will again trigger the lending of travel tickets or it will be paid back in other less taxed ways, it is said, at travel costs or something like that. In particular, with stricter supervision, if students are working full-time and continuously for several months, there are elements to the working relationship and the employer should conclude employment contracts in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. As it is said, if reporting student services directly to the inspectorate remained in force, these things could probably be identified in time and the first-hand inspectorate would also have this information. Control is where we are best in this country. Although we usually have sanctions and appropriate criminal responsibility in our laws, we are very poorly realizing this. The ministry should probably also ask how it is possible for 47 student services for 12 million euros in 2009 and 250 employees to carry out all the procedures for student work for 150,000 students and students, while the employment agency, where we are now carrying out this work, with 900 employees for €45 million, is carrying out procedures for 100,000 unemployed. We are now putting an additional burden on this institution, despite the fact that they are always saying that they work with too few people and most citizens recognize it as inefficient or at least less effective. Even now, it is possible, under the current legislation, that employment agencies also provide student work, but this is not happening, because efficiency is, as it is said, very poor, and whoever decides to do this will decide on the service or on the organisation that does it the fastest. And perhaps we could make better use of the system that we have and strengthen, as it were, the control that would not be misused. Trade unions point out that the small work bill is not intended to regulate student work, as it could be arranged differently, they have also made several proposals, but will allow employers in particular to exploit workers, pressure on regular employees and lower the price of their work. We are following Germany, where only 10% of the so-called small workers have been employed, which means very few payers in both cash registers that are more empty every day, i.e. pension and health bills. The law also allows pensioners to work through the small work institute. I'm sure they'll need it when you freeze their pensions so they can come from month to month, but they'll probably have a little trouble standing in line in front of a three-hour neighbor's office employment window. You're burdening the employers again. You're charging them with a bunch of jobs, and you're saying the law's gonna burden businesses. In fact, as with many others, we are increasing the administration, which will require additional capacity and new people in employment institutions. We anticipate the rebuilding of the new information system for EUR 2 million. That's what we meet in every marriage. While annual maintenance will not burden the budget further, it should be financed from a small part. However, experience, if the information system doesn't work, isn't started in time and at least experimentally it doesn't run for a while, there's a computer eclipse, or what do you call it, and let's make and pile up more problems. The draft law also sets out in very detail what should include the text of a call for proposals for candidates from organisations wishing to receive the status of an authorised organisation for the intervention of work. Everything about how the Commission will open up applications and similar minorities, while other very important things leave to the rules of law, such as the rules on the conditions for carrying out small work activities, which will specify in more detail the conditions for obtaining a small part authorisation, the conditions for extension, the duration of the authorisation, the way in which the costs recognised to be borne by the organisation, the method of financial and other reporting are dealt with, in short, with a whole set of other matters in the sub-legislations. The proposal also provides for the establishment of two new institutions or funds to be managed where revenue from concessions intended to co-finance scholarships, the operation of a student organisation, the implementation of projects, the implementation of an active employment policy and so on. That the Fund will not only be the custodian of concession funds, but a new institution suggests that the revenues of both funds, in addition to small part benefits, may also be revenue from public funds, from European funds and donations. We are also setting up a new risk fund, an expert committee, which will do so on a proposal for a law during regular employment and will not require additional employment. However, after experience, this usually turns into something else, so we wonder why we need three more funds and an additional commission. Is this again some new simplification and rationalization? The law brings about a new administration. In Article 36, we have a whole bunch of records and what's going to happen in these records. New institutions, a complicated way that will require several times as many operations as we have today. Instead of simplifying the system, it complicates it, which is probably why employers will probably not make this decision to the extent possible, just as they do not revive other forms of working time, and so on, because we also burden them with a whole bunch of administrations. There are two things that need to be said in the Small Work Act. In our parliamentary group, we agree that it is absolutely necessary to arrange student work in some way, to better monitor what is happening on student services. In this regard, we have taken some measures ourselves when we have had this opportunity. These measures and these steps should be continued. Above all, it bothers us that the social partners are excluded from the talks. Surely the law would be much better if an agreement were reached with all those for whom the law is written by the Ministry, i.e. pensioners, students and unemployed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the bill we are talking about is the uniform regulation of the various temporary forms of work. Thus, after the new pensioners and the unemployed, i.e. the inactive, as well as the students who will perform occasional and occasional work or small work, will be allowed comparable rights from social insurance and thus adequate safety in the labour market. I stress this at the outset because I am surprised that trade unions do not support the proposal of this law, which, in fact, gives much work to the labour market segment, greater social rights. These measures should also reduce the share of employment and black work; they could also meet the interests of the union here. These measures do not impose a monthly but an annual hour limit on the adjustment of students to study obligations. I would like to stress this in particular because it is said in public that this law means a short-term suspension of student work. Everyone else will work for a maximum of 60 hours a month, which means that the quota for students is significantly higher. Unemployed persons can do little work only if regular jobs remain active. I also find this to be an important security guard in any kind of play. However, additional conditions for carrying out a small part of the unemployed are governed by the Labour Market Regulation, which will also be discussed at today's meeting. In the Group of Members, we really believe that little work enables activation and a jump point for regular employment for unemployed people. There is also an opportunity for active retirement age and the possibility for an occasional study is adapted, stressing, the study adapted, work for students. The purpose of the law must not be to trample and open the door to new forms of exploitation of the weak. Therefore, we must not allow, and we must also be vigilant in the further processing of the law, so that, for example, there is no small work chaining, which is likely to be difficult to deal with, as a result of the limited number of hours, as well as a reduction in the number of full-time jobs. In order to avoid any possibility of unemployed persons being caught in the trap of poverty, we can expect to accept further supplements as additional restrictions on employers, for example, that after a certain number of hours, workers should no longer be allowed to do small work with the same employer, or that the employer could offer him regular employment or transition to a working relationship. The most heated discussions and objections to the law were due to changes in student work. Many are convinced that with the proposal of the law we are abolishing student work, which I have already talked about and absolutely not true, and we will also seriously cut into the social situation of a large number of students. Is that true? Let's take a look at today's system. According to data from the 2007 Eurostudent survey, Slovenian students averaged 18 hours per week. For the next 17 hours, he took away their individual study work. In addition, they spend 17 hours a week on paid work. So it takes 52 hours a week for an average student to work together. The Bologna process requires more intensive work from higher education students, so the burden of students with study obligations has increased in recent years. Thus, most students work occasionally in addition to studies to obtain additional financial resources, gain experience, profit from study activities and so on. They are not now insured for this work, nor are they considered to have a working experience, nor are they considered to be in retirement. However, there are not many who often exploit student work. Student work is actually useful for everyone, so there are so many anomalies in this area, because it benefits everyone, employers, students, those who reduce the costs of their organisations through travel. Therefore, it is also a persecution of work and the idea that it is only possible to control this area, an illusion, because interests are always on the sidelines that this is as much as possible and control is actually doomed here to failure. Where does the use of student work come from? Also when it comes to applying to college, where we find that many want to work and not study, and the university is just an alibi, covering this matter. It works with students like that in the first place. Whether they study part-time or not, we find that some study up to 10 years in Slovenia. On average, at this point, it's been seven years. In doing so, employers, labour intermediaries, some even serve well by reselling and commissioning the fees they give to others, including pensioners for 10% of the commission. With this, we put on the head of the whole system in which it should apply: the student should study and the worker should work. And what news has the student organization left the negotiating table, and unfortunately some windows were broken at the head of the National Assembly and a granite cube thrown into it? Let me also take this opportunity to express my indignation at how much the organisers of the student protest appear irresponsible, as it is now clear that, at the moment they should take responsibility and also cover the account for the damage caused, for example, Mrs Katja Šoba declares that she is not responsible for this. But let's go back to what's bothering the student organization. Small work still retains to a large extent the positive aspects of current student work or its flexible character in the labour market, while protecting the rights of students and students and also providing basic security. First of all, the amount of time that a student can devote to this work is prescribed for 14 hours a week or 720 hours a year, where flexibility is enabled, which I think is fine. The Eurostudent survey, which I have already discussed, notes that the workload of students, so as not to have too much impact on studies, may cover about 15 hours per week. So we're getting close to what they're advising somewhere for the upper limit. For the social security of students and students it is very important that little work will be counted during working hours, contributions will be paid for pension insurance, including insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases, and health insurance. The annual earnings of EUR 6 000 are limited and the lowest figure is set. That's six euros an hour. For those who have lost a number of payments, and these have been increasing lately, a risk fund is also being introduced that will pay all those who do not receive payments from the employer. This fund will also be financed from this quota of funds received. Here I think the major problems probably weren't the student organization with these solutions, but she had them elsewhere. The painful point is the allocation of resources from duties. Following the new regime, the percentage of funding allocated for grants is substantially increasing. Is there anything at stake in this? The percentage for the construction of student homes is also maintained. Is there anything at stake in this? For scholarships and student homes, half of all benefits collected from this work will thus be paid. Personally, I think that's a good solution. On the basis of the principle of intergenerational solidarity, both pupils and students and others working in the field of small work, including pensioners and the unemployed, will contribute their work. A significantly smaller share of the funds than now, and I stress this as probably the centre of the dispute, will be intended to cover the costs of small work intervention, i.e. covering the costs of student services. The student organisation will also receive fewer funds directly. Here I think those two are the most painful points. As far as student services are concerned, I think we will find an appropriate level of where the costs are justified, but as we are now observing, there are huge profits there. We see what kind of assets are available to people who own these services, so that there is no need for great solidarity in this area. Throughout the years, however, the student organisation has been shot at with constant own struggles within it. In every election, we watch the real war for the student chairs. Last time, we saw that they could even bribe each other, not with such small sums, for such or different voices. I don't know where that money came from. A smaller part of the funds will also be allocated for the purpose of carrying out the inspection, which is also fine, maintaining and maintaining the records of the small part and also of the risk fund I have been talking about. Part of the revenue will be earmarked for projects intended for students and pensioners. These resources, divided according to the size of the small work per target group, will be distributed in a public tender where all organisations, all student and pensioner associations and other operators of the activity for that target group can run, but with separate calls, which I think is important. The project approach will ensure a more transparent and cost-effective use of the resources derived from these benefits. However, the same percentage of the revenue generated by the small part of the unemployed and other inactive persons will also be earmarked for the implementation of active employment policy measures. In the Group of Members, we are sure that the new transparent way of allocating funds must not detract from, but only threaten the activities of Radio Student, student publications, such as Beletrina, other publications and other market entities that have an important cultural mission to Slovenia. We therefore support the solution that a representative of students and students and a representative of the Ministry of Culture are also required in the Commission, which will prepare calls at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. We do not see any reason, however, for political minors to participate in the division of the benefits. For there can also be a core of a lot of negative things when politics is involved in these matters. With precise criteria and procedures, and with the supervision of the relevant institutions, it might be perhaps even best, and I hope that we will also consider this in the further stages of the consideration of the law, whether students themselves or not, on their behalf. The apple of the dispute in this regard is precisely a reduction in the direct allocation of funds to the student organisation, which has proved to be a key aspect of the dispute in recent days. Therefore, we are not surprised by the peripety at the ŠOS and ŠOU Ljubljana regarding the new student constitution and the reduction of funds for the Ljubljana organisation. On the one hand, drafting changes to the Constitution without dialogue and cooperation between partners, on the other hand, suspected bribery of votes and even worse. What do you say to the conclusion? The law provides for the introduction of a central record of small work and an expert committee to monitor the implementation of small work. It is likely that after a certain period it will be necessary to determine what the results of the changes in the law are. I think it would be good to incorporate mandatory evaluation into the law and then perhaps to make changes if it were to show where the law fails to achieve its objectives. Work experience, skills and competences acquired through small work will also be recorded, making it easier to demonstrate experience in job search. This, in our view, will be key elements that will enable the implementation of the law, greater control and effective evaluation of the positive or negative effects of this on each social group individually. Some of my fellow Members look at the individual solutions proposed with doubts. They wonder whether the law will indeed allow greater social security, especially for students, to remain competitive in relation to other forms of employment, whether the independence of student organisations will indeed remain intact due to the new allocation of benefits. Therefore, the possible adoption of the corresponding supplements will have a significant impact on their final decision on the support of the law. A lot of work has been done in preparing and coordinating the bill, many hours that have botched the text before us. Therefore, I think that the criticism of this backlog of social dialogue and of some discussion on this law are also somewhat unjustifiable and simply potential in the light of the current situation. I think there have been a lot of discussions in this marriage, a lot of dilemmas, a lot of discussions, but social dialogue ends where someone can't do everything he wants. However, in the parliamentary hearing, as I have already said, there is sufficient room for us to supplement the law, because today we are actually considering the law at first reading. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear, distinguished Secretary of State and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we wonder what can be said when considering the law, which is opposed to practically everyone who is intended for it, and on the other hand, we are aware that student work needs to be better regulated and better controlled. In view of the uncertainty about what this law will bring, and in view of the long-standing protests of both students and pensioners, we can say that the law does not have the essential element of the most successful negotiations with the social partners, which is a fundamental rule in deciding on social rights and in adopting labour legislation and also the commitments made by the coalition treaty. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this law could only be passed along with the new law on scholarships, so that it will have no disastrous consequences for young people, especially rural students who have significantly higher study costs and family incomes are generally lower in rural areas. If we read only an explanation for the law, we could even attach to the principles and objectives, as even students themselves point out that everything is not right in the field of student work. I also point out several times that in Slovenia something is seriously wrong with the system of study, scholarship policy and student work. The problems of scholarship and student work are matters that are very complex and important, since they have a fatal impact on the future of young people and thus on the future of all our societies. Preposterous moves to find solutions in times of crisis, the desire to fill social cash registers and the apparent aid to the economy can therefore have fatal consequences. We therefore expect the Government and the Ministry to take the time to fall, find improved and more coordinated solutions based on the analysis of the situation and on comparative calculations of the consequences of the law, and step up social dialogue with the affected groups whose law is intended for them, and prepare improved solutions. The Small Work Act seeks to uniformly regulate the form of work which, due to the occasional nature and dynamics of work, cannot be considered a working relationship, although such work may also have elements of a working relationship in individual cases. According to DURS, in 2008 more than 117 000 people received income from the second contractual relationship, of which 33 000 and several other pensioners. The purpose of the Small Work Act is also to include occasional and occasional work in the social treasury support mechanism and to allow comparable rights from social security and thus adequate safety in the labour market to all those who carry out this work. It is certainly true that order should be made in the field of student work, and we believe in the SLS Group that a way must be found to encourage students to complete their studies as quickly as possible and to allow them regular employment in accordance with their education. We are convinced that the scholarship policy must enable all those who are able and want to study, fair and equitable conditions of access to the study, regardless of the status or distance from the larger centres or colleges. One solution is certainly the proposal of the students themselves that a single register of enrolment in higher education institutions should prevent manipulation, as it would put pressure on students to take more regular exams and complete their studies as soon as possible, and order in the field of student work, since it would prevent manipulation or temporary or fictitious enrollments. On the other hand, young people argue that this bill is a cover-up for non-working students, or as one of the student officials has expressed it, a cover-up for living, as they will study even longer because they will be able to work, even though they will have no status, under the law on small work, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 3 of the bill. On the other hand, young people will be exposed to pressure from their employers after finishing their studies because they will not want to work regularly. They are also afraid of trade unions that workers and unemployed employers will not offer the right work, but that due to lower costs, there is little work left to do. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group expect an improved proposal by autumn, based on an analysis of the situation and the actual calculation of the consequences, and in parallel to the law on scholarships. However, it is certain that the law of 1 was enforced. 1. 2012 enables the implementation of a better scholarship policy, which is one of the conditions that there will be no negative consequences of this law or that all those who are able and willing to study will be able to have at least the same study conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the Ministry! In opening, let me say that the Members of our Group agree in principle with this proposal and we will also support it at this stage. Small work should be defined as paid temporary or occasional work or longer-term limited work of students and students, pensioners, asylum seekers, persons with temporary protection and other inactive persons. We are pleased that this law sets formal boundaries, so far as little work can be done, to include those groups of people who have little work to do with a number of aspects. First time. That pensioners are involved who would like to remain active even after retirement and within their means of enabling decent and active ageing. We know what their contribution to society can be in this sense to impart their knowledge and experience to those who do not yet have it. That among pensioners there are also those who are forced to earn an additional euro because of their low pensions in order to go on vacation, to the spas, to help their children or even to break through from month to month. To include students and students who are enrolled in schools, colleges, because they want to study and study, and with occasional work they will also earn some euro to cover the costs of study or allowance and get in touch with the labour market and with the aim of becoming the first ticket into independent and parental financial independent life. However, it is important that some other groups of beneficiaries remain more marginal in small work due to their innumerability and that they also have the opportunity to have some regular income and labour market integration, which for various reasons, even for existing legislation, at this point may not be available. The aim of the introduction of small work, which is not new in essence, is to reduce and prevent work in black because the latter is too much of a problem of the Slovenian labour market and because of the high level of incidence, according to our assessment, it also has a very negative impact on the picture of unemployment as we have today in the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the economic crisis and the political decline in the needs of employers for workers. I do not know if in activities such as transport, construction, catering and tourism, as well as certain production and other service activities, there is a company today that is adapted to the actual number of regular hours and overtime. Not only is labour legislation in breach, the consequences of full-time work outside the prescribed limits are also negative in the payment of those hours spent in black, since, last but not least, the state has nothing but a deficit in the pension, health and social register. Workers spend more or less time working overtime than they did later on as a result of more hospital leave. The next obstacle to regular forms of employment is also student work, because their size and abuse have exceeded all reasonable limits, of course because the current regime also largely permits it. The unemployed also do not have the above mentioned anomalies and do not get a job and remain a burden on the country. That is why our consideration refers to one single word in this bill, which, according to our assessment, is very important. Unless appropriate modifications to the draft law in this part are made in the next stages of the legislative process, further support on our part will also be questionable. The thought has been accompanied by a good time throughout the entire period of creation or the drafting of this bill, and we have also constantly warned about it. As you heard me a few minutes ago in summarising the definition of what little work is supposed to mean and which beneficiaries are supposed to be modern and very flexible, so-called small workers, I missed the unemployed in the title. So slippery ground that this proposal is intended for a small job and a standard of living for the unemployed is not acceptable to the Desus Group. The proposaler himself says that such a form of work from the employer's point of view will be much more favourable in terms of lower labour costs, less administration and, most importantly, in terms of rapid response to job needs. Of course, it is possible to agree to this and to attach to the aspirations for adapting employment to the economic situation, but should nevertheless be careful about the traps that the proposed flexibility of the labour market can cause at such a high level of unemployment. Little work will undoubtedly have negative consequences for the unemployed group, according to our assessment. Although the limits laid down for both beneficiaries and employers will certainly be limited, this leads, of course, to nothing more than that this form will replace the regular form of work. Unemployed young workers will become prisoners in this new form of work, which does not even offer the most basic rights from work and does not mean any opportunities for a quality and decent life of the worker and his family. And what is even more ironic about the purpose of this law is that there is a risk that the grey economy will not be disturbed. The concept of safe flexibility has two plating medals. The explanation can be very different. At the moment, with this package of labour legislation, it is certain that it is mainly for employers. The messages of the European Commission and Parliament speak of both aspects and are clear on the issue of safe flexibility - flexibility "yes", but not in the sense that businesses should be given more freedom in employment or dismissal, while also calling for the creation of a employment policy that prevents workers from being exploited through the accumulation of non-standard forms of work that do not contain the same set of rights as full employment contracts, and for the tradition of an open employment model to be maintained for an indefinite period of time that forms the basis of social security in the Member States. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that there is more than enough room for manoeuvre to improve the bill's proposal to continue the procedure in terms of seeking more appropriate solutions, so we will support it at this stage, as our assessment of most of the solutions to the proposed law is also positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! Mr President, a team from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Small Work Act regulates something that has so far not been regulated or regulated in a weak way. That's what it says, either through college work or through black work. It means temporary or occasional work, or a longer-term limited work of students, pensioners, unemployed persons and other inactive persons, which in itself means an addition to something else, which is the basis for ensuring social security for the active in the small part. Many words were spoken about the student work itself, and to a large extent it would have touched the small part for unemployed or inactive persons, because I think some serious European studies have, however, drawn attention to certain concerns that we need to pay attention to. The fact is that, above all, the experience from Germany, where such activity was severely deregulated, has been burdened by significantly smaller contributions, has led some research, such as the 2006 research by the Institute of Economic and Social Research and the 2009 study by Calienda, Künna and Uhlendorff, to indicate that mines often become some kind of blind spot or point for people who were previously unemployed and who were not adequately employed and to doubt whether they represent a stepping stone for the unemployed to regular employment. In particular, this has been linked to concerns that small works can be chained and thus to smaller rights active in the small part as well as their lower remuneration. This was research, which, in a way, also encouraged the European Parliament, which in its report on what the common principles of safe flexibility are, stated that policies must be put in place to prevent the exploitation of workers through the accumulation of non-standard forms of work that do not contain the same set of rights as full contracts of employment. The question is whether our small - work law responds to these challenges or concerns as to whether it has adequately calibrated the protective devices that would prevent it. Unlike the German model, our law places a limit on the number of hours and wages of small work and limits on small work for employers. There is also a clear line between regular work and small work. In some ways, monitoring and monitoring of what is happening to small parts is also envisaged. However, we still believe that there is room enough to reflect on whether the fuses are sufficient and mean actually preventing these negative effects. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that German studies, particularly the last study in 2010, based on the data of the socio-economic questionnaire, show something else that, on an individual level, little work serves as a stepping stone, as a step from unemployment or inactivity to employment, as well as changes from flexible forms of work to full-time employment. The benefits of the impact of the bouncing board should be reflected in particular in low productivity workers. These are new research, which must be taken into account in our consideration, although, of course, they also point here to lower wages for those who are active in small work. The indisputable fact is that little work for the unemployed is meant as a form of activation, as a form that should mean the possibility for an individual, whether on the basis of unemployment or later social assistance, to be able to improve his socio-economic situation, enter the labour market and, in fact, actively assist himself in solving his situation. Before that, however, we had a situation, or until the law regulated that these people were doing black work, but if the revenues were registered, they were denied their rights. That is to say, the current regulation certainly means progress if you are active, if you contribute something to the resolution of your socio-economic situation, so you are rewarded by not deducting this from your rights. I personally think that this solution is positive, but it requires even more serious reflection and a search for common agreements with the social partners, in what way the potential for abuse in this case could actually be limited. I am convinced that there are some ideas here on how we can solve this, especially with the greater integration of the employment agency in terms of control and who is actually issuing the guides and how these guides are being monitored. The second point I would like to touch is the small part for NGOs. NGOs are the pastor of this Slovenian company. I have already quoted many times that, following the level of development of the non-governmental sector, which is now made up of 24 thousand NGOs, according to the sector's development indicators, according to the proportion of GDP they create, by the proportion of employees in the sector we place on the European tail itself, that only Slovakia and Romania are below us. But little work, as studies show, in most of these I have been involved, shows that little work in NGOs is an important part of their work. And research says that 40 % of paid work in NGOs is done by those who could be identified as active in small work. Since most NGOs are small, they fall below the limits laid down by the law for small employers, that is to say 360 hours. I therefore raise the question of whether non-governmental organisations that are clearly defined, but here I do not know why we have problems with understanding the non-governmental sector, by definition they belong in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia society, institutions and private institutions, including those church organisations that deal with charitable activities. Would it not also apply here to consider some exceptions that we also have for large employers to allow a certain, larger quota of work that can be done in these organisations? In particular, because they are exposed to the greatest form of flexibility constantly seeking opportunities for their operation. Here, however, flexibility is the greatest and it is also the greatest for those who work or work in this sector. My initiative is to amend Article 4 in order to consider a slightly more unvoluntary treatment of work in these organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I suppose or I believe that we all come from a strong belief that it is necessary for less wealthy students to have the conditions to complete the study, whether it is with an appropriate system of scholarships or whether it is with a system that will allow students to carry out additional work in order to be self-financed as far as possible without having a negative impact on the course of the study. I am convinced that the purpose of the government and the purpose of this law is to find the right balance between all these possibilities that the law actually regulates an area that now operates at least seemingly, but also practically, very inappropriately or even at times chaoticly. The purpose of the law is good. I think that just the fact that we support this first reading of the law does not preclude further improvement of the law itself, so that in the course of the debate it is possible to hear many initiatives and suggestions, the possibility of amendments, so that the final product would be better than that which is not fully satisfactory for the population concerned at present. But it is also important to ask whether they are not satisfied students who are dedicated to this law and also offer some important news, not only to regulate the situation, but also to social protection, or whether opposition to this law is primarily part of the wishes and accounts of the student nomenclature. It turned out exactly after those infamous protests, the dimension of the relationship of interests which, at least in my opinion, is quite distant from real student interests. I used to be a student myself, and I know why we fought back then. However, when I listen to some of the arguments and demands of today's student February or student leaders, I no longer recognize any principles, no ideals, but, above all, the struggle to control a huge amount of money and even in some moves, I imagine some desire to create student tycoonism. I am aware that we are all aware of the need to ensure the conditions of study and also work for all students, especially those who need it. But the fact that we're going to reduce the scope of the schedule is logical, on the one hand, if we give and if we know that the priority is the study. Demanding contributions is also a logical requirement. Of course, there is probably room for further negotiations. One of the preoccupations, one of the fears directly affected, is that by reducing the competitiveness of small work, these options could be significantly limited. I think these fears need to be heard. And there may also be a place where, by appropriate amendments, the price of this work would be a little strained and relatively high competitiveness maintained. Even though I believe that we will not solve the problems of students and their work, it would not be right to create Chinese workers from students. These are workers who will be used to work for employers without social guarantees and protection. Of course it's unacceptable, too. And if the purpose of this law, and I believe that it is, to arrange in a fair manner, this purpose is to support, of course, by negotiating. The space for negotiations exists until the final product and until the final vote, I hope that these expected changes will also take place. That is why I will support the law at this stage, I will listen to all the arguments and, in the end, I will also decide on the arguments and on the initiatives that will be explained here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to the danger of a chain of small jobs for unemployed people. When a small worker completes his monthly quota of 60 hours in the employer up to 10 employees, 6 small workers can do little work. This means that two regular employees will be able to call the employer, second, third and so on to number 72. How many will he be able to use every year if he replaces them monthly? One small worker could be employed in the company through a regular full-time job of about 4 months, given the monthly or annual quota of hours. The need for small workers will be very likely to be present throughout the year, given that such a form of employment is very favourable for the employer, because it is very flexible, without restrictive fundamental rights from the labour relationship, and therefore very cheap. Approximately 140 000 are just these small enterprises, which will be able to have a total of one million small workers per month in the final one-year calculation. There are already too many people working through very flexible forms of work today, given the fact that most of the jobs they have concluded in recent years have been concluded for a certain period of time, but they do not provide sufficient economic, social, family, housing security, which are the first condition for the decent life of our citizens and citizens. How will the introduction of small work in the long term affect the unemployed themselves, not only in terms of their standard, but also in terms of mental state? What does small work mean, last but not least, in relation to all changes to social laws and labour market regulation for state-of-the-art cash registers? I wonder what the 49th and 66th articles of the Constitution of our country already say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said several times today, this law falls within the framework of labour law and does not go to be seen as one who will solve all problems and all problems, and all of a sudden everything will be fine and right. But it must be one of those laws that just doesn't give, but it does. And when things are settled and put in place, some dust rises. We have witnessed all of this in recent times. Whether that was good or bad, I believe that students express their opinions in different ways and that there is nothing wrong with these views sometimes being a little more firm. Of course, the moment will come when things need to be settled and things put in place with perseverance and slowness. As the law will not experience today's vote and the end, today we will only vote on the first reading, and there is still a great opportunity to regulate everything that some groups are not satisfied with. There is no doubt, however, that if we did not go to the Small Work Act, there should be other regulations, because, as the area of work and student work is now regulated, it could not take much time. If you look in this law, in his, if I may say so, preface all the statistics and data that I do not repeat, because you all have them in front of you, you will find that in Slovenia with student work we are somehow world champions and that the student work has become, you do not want, not for all, for some, more business than welcome financial assistance in the study itself. But it can also be taken, as any student can consider whether he will complete his studies quickly, efficiently and on time, or whether he will turn in these circles to his own, I don't know which, years and then at the end of his studies he will finish or not. So I think it's very important that this law regulates these relationships, somehow puts them in its place. In my opinion, it also regulates something that in our country is decommissioned to disability, and it is a grey economy, a black job, a job that is uncontrollable. It's always hard for me to talk about these things when someone is unemployed because they don't get enough resources to survive and they have to improve their standard with extra work. This is especially convenient in the border areas, I am home from Kopra, and our people are doing a great job elsewhere. But it is time for these things to be arranged so that people can also work at home, legally, without fear of getting anything for it, but the payment for this work, as envisaged in this law, although the grey economy will never be avoided anywhere, in any country, nor are we. If we look at it from the perspective of the regulation of this labour law, we will soon find that everything that is trying to be regulated is also regulated according to the situation. Since honey and milk are no longer leaking anywhere, things need to be arranged so that it is able and durable for all groups in this society. I'm sorry, but when I read the numbers, the finances they had the students with, I was really horrified. I knew that over the last six months, various articles of mutual accusation, discrediting began to appear in newspapers, and there were really strange things and numbers about various companies, circuit companies and so on. So, like I said at the beginning, this story somehow got out of hand. This does not mean that we have to force anyone, at least the students and the unemployed, to do absolutely differently and in the way anyone thinks. No, but to arrange things so that no one will have to worry about not being able to survive the study, and on the other hand, that for the 270 euros that an average student in Slovenia gets today, this average is not so high, but if you look at the numbers with the student service income, the others, these are enormous numbers. A million 180 thousand passengers were issued, 84 million hours were spent, 341 million euros went to students, and then all the fees to be paid, ranging from concession fees to student homes. If we look at the part in the marriage that deals with the little work of pensioners. Today, unfortunately, we have a very large number of young pensioners in the country. After 1990, we generally retired whole groups of professions. And these people are still useful, they still have a lot to do and do. And I see no reason why we should not do this legally and why we should not earn it without fear of enriching our household budget, because the pensions, as we know, are not so great to scream with joy. In my first reading, I'm going to support the Small Work Act myself. I will support it with the aim of continuing the debate in a kind of patient atmosphere and environment, where we will be able to reach some of the changes that will satisfy these target groups with sound arguments. It must be understood, however, that without this labour law, things simply cannot go any further. That is why it will be necessary to make an effort not only to exercise your will, to threaten and even worse, but it is a matter of attitude towards things and culture that has apparently disappeared completely in some segments of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! From the very beginning until now, some of the debates were very interesting and also the position of one of the groups of Members. At this point, one gets the feeling that students and student organizations are responsible for the abuse of a student’s work. That's the feeling he was trying to make. However, I say that this is currently the responsibility of legislation that makes this possible. It was adopted 15 years ago, and abuse occurs only because this law allows. There's no control, and that, of course, is being exploited. But they use student services, they don't take advantage of students. And that's the key point that needs to be said that we wouldn't point fingers at students all the time. We're all against the abuse of student work. I'm sure there's no one among us who doesn't feel the same way. We know there is, and it's right to settle this field of student work. This is where we are. I think we're all completely united. The large mark on the proposed law, namely the Small Work Act, represents a social dialogue that, according to trade unions, students and pensioners, is dead. This has been stated by representatives of all trade unions, all trade unions, and should be considered. This law is opposed by all unions. This law is opposed by students, student organisations. This law is opposed by pensioners. This law is opposed by everyone concerned with this law. Everybody. Everybody says, we stop the horses, we sit at the table and we start talking again. It is not enough, let us amend the law in the following cases. The law, they claim, all three spheres, is fundamentally wrong and is conceptually unacceptable because we all talk about unions, pensioners and students, are found in one marriage. I think that these solutions should be applied for each group individually, not together in one law. And these are also the comments of all three of these, which I have been talking about, about trade unions, pensioners and students. If I touch students or students or students first, or those who represent students. The student organisation opposes and claims that the approach itself to adopting this legislation is wrong. First, the scholarship policy should be regulated, and then let's work a little bit. And I absolutely agree with that. The law on scholarships is still far from parliamentary benches, although according to a normative plan it should have been on the table a long time ago. He's not here. And we're doing a little work. I feel like we're playing with students, we're playing with the unemployed, we're playing with the retired. And that's not acceptable to me personally. For the same amount of work, it will decrease further, given the situation we have in Slovenia, students, the unemployed, students and eventually pensioners will compete for these works. We need to be aware that a lot of people are working to study. A lot of people. And we can't overlook that. But it is true that abuse is also taking place. That's what I was talking about at the beginning. I'm afraid that this little job could become some kind of replacement for a regular working relationship. I'm really afraid of that, and that's what the unions are alerting them to. Employment in negative forms of work may be increased. Little work brings a lot of danger. Mrs. Črnak Megličeva spoke earlier about Germany. I read this study, too. But interestingly, in the material, I have a feeling that there's only one part of the study that's positive. Where is the part that speaks of the abuse of this small work that they point to in Germany? And these are the facts. And it would be good to get this study until the second reading, but not only what is written in the government's paper, but a complete study that speaks of a small part that was in Germany. Student work only makes sense if it is social corrective and nothing else. I think the Government is not sufficiently concerned about the impact of the new legislation on the social situation of students. For the sake of our understanding, I have no objection to getting the opportunity to do this work, including pensioners, unemployed people, etc., to understand each other. But with little work, workers' rights can be reduced and employers' rights increased. I don't know if that's in our interest. The adoption of legislation itself is also very carefully timed. Last meeting before the summer, we're going at all costs at first reading. When the first reading is done, the exam is no longer available. Students, unions and pensioners warn that the concept itself is wrong, so amendments will not be possible to correct it. It is pointless to say that we make this law by first reading and that we will finish it by the second reading. We're not gonna finish it. And even if we do, these three groups will still not be satisfied. I don't know if that's in our interest. Social dialogue in the country, in the crisis we are in, must be. That must be the priority of that government. And if we don't have social dialogue, we can get a lot of things going. And I'm afraid of that. I'm truly afraid. Why? Because we are Members and Members of Parliament who adopt legislation, not the Government. The government has stopped the dialogue with all three groups. There's no more dialogue. I cannot afford as a Member to adopt legislation that is not coherent with partners. And we as Members are obliged to resume this dialogue if the Government is unable or unwilling to do so. This marriage also has some good solutions. We can't say they're gone. It will increase control over the intervention and management of student work. That's absolutely good. A single registration record will be established. I welcome that. Life-long career orientation is established. The establishment of a common register of entries will reduce the scope of student work. I'm sure she'll bring it down. As a result, the average period of study will be reduced, which is also in our interest. It will also be possible in some way to abuse these directions. But that's all. This is all that is good in this law and what students and unions and pensioners agree on. But what this will mean for these three groups of people who are being debated in small work. What does that mean for pensioners? Reactivation of pensioners in the labour market is a solution to the existing crisis of a large part of pensioners. We have seen recently that pensioners are in a major crisis. They have as much as they have, even in recent years, the matter has settled as it has done when there are no more such coordinations as it has been. And I think it's kind of a wrong approach. Re-entry into compulsory pension insurance will take place. If pensioners manage little work, they will re-enter the market. What are we doing with this? This undermines the concept of solidarity. They should enjoy the rights they have acquired and the state should take care of them in a different way. Not by calling them now when we adopt this legislation, if you don't have enough pension, but go to work. That's the suggestion of this marriage to pensioners, if you have too little, you have the opportunity to go to work. I think it's wrong. As far as students and students are concerned. A student who will not work over a small part will, on the basis of the status, be entitled to a subsidised stay, to a diet, to a transport and to a scholarship. However, if he accepts a small amount of work, he becomes part of the active population and is burdened by the payment of his pension and health contributions. That's a fact. That's what's gonna happen. I call that the wrong approach, and we'll take it anyway. As far as the unemployed are concerned, little work will certainly increase the pressure on safe employment and the erosion of employment for an indefinite period in order to extend the possibility of flexible forms of work. I think it's for a long time, too. I agree that all these matters, which are in this law, must be settled, but for each group individually, by no means for all three in one marriage. I think it's time for us to stop this moment, given that this law is really opposed by all those involved in this law, to stop, we say, once again, we need to sit at the table, find solutions that are acceptable to all, and then we move on. It is not enough to say that with the amendments we will correct this law to the extent that everyone is satisfied. That's not gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is clear that at a time of crisis, every society must ask where else it has any additional resources, and that is what ours does and is looking for them wherever possible. I am not sure that the law we have today in our first reading is the largest reserve our society has, in order to be more competitive with other companies and global economies. However, it is also a time when every society has to ask itself whether its social contract is correctly written and the relationship between generations is such that it is fair to every generation. What does our society offer a generation that is yet to come? It is offered by a changed higher education system, which we do not know exactly whether it will bear fruit or not. It offers them a perspective that they will have to borrow student loans to complete their studies. It does not offer them any regular employment, since given the current state of the economy, this is unlikely. He's offering them the opportunity to get a life loan and take a mortgage so they can live somewhere. And he's offering them a pension scheme that's insanely unpredictable to them. In short, a bunch of reasons against anything. Our job, of course, is to write on this new intergenerational contract, this social contract, and to arrange things so that life for generations to come is worth living in this country. I am not sure that the proposed legal change is the one going in this direction. At least the study generation was offered by the current legal system, and I would argue that there was some kind of security. She offered some financial security that gave confidence, some relative financial autonomy, and it meant one of those, if not steps, I'll say, steps into adulthood. And if we want to break this staircase now, at least some other emergency exits should be shown. I do not see that there would be any housing law on the agenda of this Parliament that would tax the fifth, sixth, seventeenth property that would arrange for the placing of rooms on black. There is not yet a pension reform that would allow for a young generation's perspective and so forth. And while this is not the case, it is of course difficult to expect that a generation will be willing to give up something if it does not receive anything in return, especially if it is a generation from which it is expected to give added value to this economy, that it will be the one who will make this quality breakthrough between the global competitive economies. Figo will do this if the conditions for this are not created! But why would I do that if generations before her are not better, but in what she is better, more forced and more responsible for the future of this country than generations before her? Therefore, some of the changes that are being proposed are, to say the least, strange. I agree that in the field of student work there is an unfortunate insurance policy, and it is also good that people are at least partially insured. It is logical that work must be limited so that it does not give birth. Most importantly, it is important to establish a single registration record and that those who are allowed to do so do so. These are changes that could be made without as radical an intervention as this law foresees. Whether there is a reasonable limit to the amount of work for larger, small, medium-sized enterprises, especially NGOs, is particularly a matter of reflection; this has also been mentioned by Colleague Črnakova. As regards the alleged argument that this is an anomaly, it should be said that for the OECD the anomaly is also a one-year maternity allowance that we have in our country, and this does not make it possible for anyone to reduce it in terms of a more competitive economy. This country has simply decided in its past to grant certain concessions to certain parts of its citizens because it believes that this is a good thing. We also pay concessions from gambling, for example, for disabled organisations. There is probably also an irregularity, irregular spending and so on, but this resource has not yet decided to cut down, although I do not know why not, although I estimate it is a greater resource than the one we are discussing today. The scope of the student work itself is expected to represent around 3% of the labour market and the tendency is to translate this work into regular employment. Regular employment is the only job we compare this to. Of course, this is possible, but it is unrealistic, because in as many forms of work as we have in our country, we need to look at how student work is and how little work will compete with all forms of small work in the future, and in particular with one form of work that is least loved to us. It's work-on-black. And the black work is what I assume most of this student work can be poured into, because most of this work is in service activities, easier physical work, less demanding work. And this is not about any competitiveness for those who could be regularly employed in this activity, because no one, at least from Slovenian citizens, wants to be employed in this activity. Here we must ask ourselves whether we are ready to move, whether it is clear to us that workers, especially from poorer countries of the European Union, will then do these works and that much of this work will flow through work in black, that there will be a little more travel tasks. In particular, independent entrepreneurs will be set up, as this way of carrying out work for a wide range of Slovenian companies will mean a smaller administrative cost. The current legislation proposed provides for one set of administrative costs that will reflect this mode of work. Of course, taxation is also more and in some ways criminal to a generation that should do this little work under such conditions. Why would current students and future students pay for health insurance if they are doing such work, but if their parents, when doing such work through the student service, did not have to pay extra health insurance. Is this generation that will now work sicker than others? No, of course not. What generations now use the services of this health insurance? Those who used to work on student travel without this job being as expensive as it will be now. It's unfair. Is that intergenerational solidarity? That's intergenerational solidarity! Of course, we are not the first and only to make such changes. As already mentioned, we do this through German experience and it would be good to see if these experiences are really what they always appear to us to be. It is also clear that this is one part of this legislation and the other part concerns the organisation and use of the resources resulting from this concession fee. I find it difficult to agree with everything that is being done today in the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its entities. At the same time, because I have also created this system at the local level in student clubs and many organisations, I cannot say that everything financed by this money is bad. More. I believe a lot of things are very good. The experience of NGOs will also tell you that a number of youth organisations receive a lot more money for their activities by the entity of the Student Organisation of Slovenia than by the Office of Youth. And that no one would have thought that any other division of this concession by the Youth Office or anyone else would be less transparent. The student organisation in Slovenia has no problem with its business being reviewed by the Court of Auditors. Then let's do this because it's money that the state gives up for the purposes set out in the student community law. These problems, these anomalies, which most of you warn about, do not need to be solved in this way. That is why I cannot support the first reading of this law either because I have already said what I have said before, because it seems to me that some other chapters of the Intergenerational Treaty must be written before this chapter can be completed. I doubt that the generation from which so much is expected in the future is expected to be the first to give up its rights in writing a new social contract. She will when she gets the feeling that she's being considered equivalent. However, as its work is valued, it has also been seen in the adoption of insolvency law. I have proposed that student work also become one of the priority claims in the bankruptcy process. This was not the case, of course, because we have a government ultimatum of regular jobs for an indefinite period of time, but for the generation to come, science fiction. Until they start writing a more real story, I can't support this story that's just ahead of us in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have already raised a lot of questions in this debate, and allow only a few comments and clarifications. First of all, when it comes to comparing student work and small work. Interestingly, many of today’s forms of student work are not concerned. However, it is unlimited for both the employer and the individual, and it is carried out by students without any rights, unless they receive payment. Most get it, some don't. And as you can tell, he's out of control. The only control seems a little problematic to everyone, but nothing else. A small job, as proposed, involving student work, on the other hand, places restrictions on students because they are primary students, and is their first task to study and then do what they do, and puts restrictions on employers, because today we also have cases where an individual - an entrepreneur has a registered company and the whole activity justifies that I say, in using such a form of work without offering one regular job. And it's about employment, some of you said. And we are also concerned about more jobs being offered. Through a little work, we offer social security payments rights. There are no such payments today, and I will return to that at the end of this discussion. But if there are payments, there must be justice. There's not one or the other today. We know, however, that we are going through what is called an increasingly broad, more flexible form of work, that more and more of this work is escaping from the regular employment framework, which means that individuals also have incomes but do not contribute to common needs. That's why we have problems in the pension register, we have problems in the health treasury, which will be even bigger if we don't change this philosophy, that every job is considered that everyone who earns must also contribute to the common needs in which it participates through public services. We do not have these philosophies today, and that is why this gap between those who are always more burdened within their working relationship, who are always harder to contribute and even make their businesses uncompetitive, on the one hand, and those who escape from this system, is increasing. And even in an unequal situation, we have one or the other who participate in the division of labour in this society. If I claim that every work counts, this should be taken from this point of view. Students use health services. You say their parents pay for them. But if they deserve their work. What is the reason why they should not participate in the coverage of these services? There's no valid reason for that. If a person works under a contract, why should this profit not be burdened by these contributions to cover the common needs? The pension period seems to be of little importance to the students, but when we talk to the social partners today about the need to increase work activity, especially with those who have only a few years to retire, it is still important every year. And we're talking about whether we're going to make it through the year, two more jobs. And that year or two can also be obtained in the way they get it today when they are actually doing student work. From this point of view it is also necessary to take a comprehensive view of this social contract that you have highlighted. I very much agree that a new intergenerational social contract is probably necessary in the new situation. Little work here is only a small contribution in this direction. And we're working in this direction. The second part of the social legislation, which we also adopt, the pension legislation, I have already mentioned, can contribute to this new social contract, and probably some other, housing, I fully agree. If we really want to evaluate or achieve a more appropriate position, the more equal position of individual generations. After all, we will also come to this issue in a slightly different way in the debate on the labour law. The second issue you have raised is the issue of social dialogue. I must say that this dialogue runs at different levels, running between employers and employees directly. It runs between the Government and individual social partners directly. It runs through the economic and social world, also through other bodies, including the student affairs world. His committees are intended to do so, and we have also worked with them to prepare this law if the students were willing to cooperate. We have invited them for more than a year to put forward proposals for the text of the law, unfortunately we have not received these concrete proposals from them up to the last, and there is still time for some addition, for correction, as you said. We don't have any problems taking them into account if they come. It is true, however, that we need to say that social dialogue is understood in a way they do not understand, at least that we have been able to verify, in other European countries with the tradition of social dialogue, that every matter must be achieved with full consent or nothing. Between nothing and total consensus, there are several options that are taken elsewhere as legitimate, normal. And we also take this option as legitimate and normal. Of course, it is difficult to expect to reach consensus and full agreement on the proposal of this law when we hit with a monopoly on intermediation of student work or with the considerable benefit of representatives of students or student organisations. EUR 30 million is being converted into these two structures, which is not a small sum. In this case, it is difficult to expect agreement to be complete and constructive dialogue is possible. And we are in favour of leading it, at least for us to come to a transparent use of these funds, which they have insight into, because they are parafiscal assets, in fact also public institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, which does not see this moment as a sharing of these funds. Clearly, little work does not and does not promise, does not provide survival for anyone. And in this sense, no one offers it or establishes it. However, it can be a complementary activity for those who maintain their primary status. The pensioner will remain a pensioner, unemployed unemployed, student, while doing this work, each with his own purpose. It is not just about additional financial resources or about improving one’s material position. That too, but that's not the only purpose or primary purpose. For older people, it is a possibility of prolonging, as we call active ageing, because we know precisely that those who are active have for a long time maintained their psychophysical abilities and also the ability to take care of themselves, to care for their needs and not to depend on others. For students, it is a matter of contact with work, with the labour market, to gain work experience, which will now be formally recognised, so far they do not. No one took this into account in their application for employment. They will now have this opportunity, as a reference, to present these experiences to the employer, who will also be able to evaluate them accordingly. For the unemployed, it is the same purpose to stay in contact with work, because in the unemployed we know exactly the curve of their psychological perception of their own position, which quickly, if they do not have contact with the working environment, with the labour market, begins to descend in the direction of so-called passiveisation or disappointment and also to stop looking for employment. This is an effect that is very well known from all possible research. And that's how we let them do it. But they will be unemployed, if that's the concern, left unemployed in their primary status. They don't lose that status if they work if they decide to take a little job. No one's gonna force them to do that. However, we will take into account their activity, and we can also help them through the institution further to activate so that they can move this activity into employment with a particular employer. Of course, in the case of the unemployed, each activity is better than passiveity. We know this from experience, we know this from all the studies. They are expected to be active as job seekers, after those involved in training, and also in certain work activities. If these are work activities, then let them be formal, be legal, not black work. Today, we have many cases in the case of the unemployed, where they are eligible for a passive employment policy in terms of receiving monetary compensation and some work in the grey economy, which is undeclared and which gives them additional income. Little work also allows the legalisation of this activity through the labour market regulation law, of course, we allow the unemployed to legally receive additional resources from employment on a cash-reimbursement basis. A small job is a suitable institute for this. What they point to in this German study is of course relevant, but the German system is different from ours. The German system allows everyone, including the employee, to do this work, and when he does this, he no longer has the status of an unemployed person. There's a big difference in that. So in this system of things, someone can be trapped in these activities, in our system it can't happen to him, or it's likely that something like this could happen, much less. It should be pointed out that small work is not the only form of work that can either be used by the employer or by an individual, particularly by employers, who have so far mainly used student work as a basis for their activities. From small work forward we get to work for a certain time. And what we can do further is that we will encourage employers to employ those individuals who are engaged through a little work for a certain period of time. And those who have seasonal work for two months, three months on a continuous basis, today have a completely legal, normal form of work that they can offer — a work for a certain period of time, a regular working relationship. If we are concerned, this law will contribute to the possibility of more of these offers, not in the form of a work that does not contribute to anyone’s social security. If it is problematic to put three different groups in the same law, I must say that this solution is perfectly normal from this point of view, that we establish through a small work equal access to this work to all individuals in this country who already have something and retain some other primary status. And this is where the older generation, the middle generation, the younger generation, some form of intergenerational encounter can also happen here. And if you're asking for a special law for students, a student's job, and a special one for pensioners, I'm asking you whether we have special laws for individual groups as a regular working relationship. We don't have them because it's a completely unusual solution. We come from labour market arrangements. Little work is starting to contact the labour market; employment for shorter working hours is second; for full-time work is third. And by doing so, this rainbow of different possibilities that an individual has is also concluded. The question is whether the scholarship has been arranged. It's arranged. And I hope that all Members will vote in favour of the law on eligibility to public funds tomorrow evening, which allows for more scholarships and higher scholarships, state scholarships, for all those who do not have the opportunity to obtain resources from other titles in a materially poorer position. The poor 600 euros per family member is a criterion for obtaining a state grant. That's more than a minimum wage. And if this isn't a wide-open door for anyone who has a poor material position, then I don't know what we're talking about in this country. Taxation of this work. Each work counts, and if each work counts, we will also pay for the contributions. It's lower than it is in a comparable regime in Germany if anyone cares. And the employers with whom we had dialogue on this law and did not essentially object to this law in any way, except in the point that they would still have more options, which we are now somewhat holding back because this is a compromise solution, had no comments about the contributions being paid from this title, had none, at least until now, which they would have written down, which they would have explicitly expressed. This work is not done, as has been said, at the employment agency. The call will be published, individual institutions will apply for this call, concessions will be awarded, contracts will be signed. We expect that the experience of student services can be usefully exploited in the future for this same activity as before, but on a non-profit basis. This is a change that I think deserves special attention because the intervention of work in itself is a profitable activity, and especially in the way that the state regulates it specifically and it is here that access to so-called parafiscal resources is fundamentally problematic. The Fund was mentioned. This is not a special fund in terms of what we know about public funds, like a scholarship or something. This is a specific item, a budget item within the Ministry, at the request of the Finance Ministry, so that the flow of all these concession funds can be controlled better through this institution than has been monitored so far. This is about greater transparency of business. I'd even mention the autonomy of a student organization. There was a lot about that speech. We have always advocated a solution, after which even through a little work, through concession fee this autonomy can be maintained because we see a positive side in the autonomous functioning of students and students' organisations. The proposal we had on the table by finance was to forget about concession fees, to simply do a little work, as they do in Germany, to tax it with a single rate and this goes into the budget, and then students will run for their activities in different ways. We have negotiated that the solution, as it is now, remains roughly the same, only to make the review and use of these funds more purposeful and even more transparent. And we have no problems, we have offered this to the Student Organisation, we still offer it to be included in the mechanism for the distribution of these funds that will go through the tenders. We see her as a constructive partner in this solution. Unfortunately, there was no constructive response to this initiative. So much for once, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Rozej, do you have a procedural proposal? Mr Rožej, I have not noticed that you have been quoted as having been appointed by the Minister, but the Minister has indeed answered the questions that have been raised by Members on the same topics, and this is actually the characteristic of a proper debate, so you will have to wait for the time when the time will be shared at the end, and you will be able to apply for the debate. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and co-workers from the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! I will not give in to the temptation to explain my direct and indirect experience with the student work, but I want to discuss the small work law, encouraged by some discussions this morning, as well as all that has happened in this law. First of all, let me say that I fully support the concept of the Small Work Act, because I see that this law regulates an area of work that is not included in the work relationship, either in the full-time working relationship or in the short-term. The excessive work mentioned by the OECD as a form of work is also linked to the existence of a working relationship, and outside this context there are occasional forms of work that enabled many in this country as a grey economy to improve the status or financial situation of the family. Therefore, it seems to me that the law is an attempt to regulate this particular area, but I do not imagine that working in black with this law will cease completely. There are probably always those who find ways to make circuits, more than those who can predict what kind of circuits could be formed. I agree to the concept of this law, so I will also support the law at first reading. I would also like to respond to two other concerns raised in the debate, which were cited in Articles 49 and 66. And I see this marriage just like the realisation of these two articles. Article 49 of the Constitution speaks only of freedom of work; it no longer stipulates that everyone has the right to work; it speaks of freedom of work. And you see, if I think about one of the critical solutions in the law, if I think from the point of view of unemployed people who are registered at the employment agency and who receive unemployment compensation, they are allowed to decide freely whether they will work in the small work and what they will do, because there are no guarantees that the job offered must fit the level of education and anything else, so they will freely decide on this work, and I see this law as a realisation of this member. However, when I speak of Article 66, which speaks of labour protection, this article is very clear, "the state creates employment and employment opportunities and ensures their legal protection". And it is in this law that I see an attempt to regulate the legal protection of employment for shorter working hours. And in this context, I also see that every work counts. And I understand that if my work is taken into account, then I must, in addition to this privilege, take my work into account, also agree that I have an obligation to settle from this work. And I'm on what's called a small-job contribution. These are the two things I thought I needed to mention in the beginning. But I'd like to have a few more comments on what I'm listening to. I cannot help but over the years and years we have discussed how the student work is, in particular, a field of multiple abuses, both of employers and of those who work through student travel. And if there is now some possibility in this law to regulate more control over small work, I support it; I still do not say that it is ideal because I have already told you how I look at things. However, I find this to be important in some other respects. Keeping a register of small jobs also seems important to me because if students are exercising the right to be regarded as having a small job as an experience of further employment, then they need to know officially what this person was doing, whether he was a night watchman, whether he was a carrier of furniture or he was doing some such work, which means training for later employment. Here it seems to me that the benefit is greater than what will require regulation of this control, so to speak, or register. I also support the redistribution of resources from the concession fee for work. It also appears to me directly to meet the requirements of the Student Organisation in order to increase the number of scholarships. And if the current levy of 3%, which is a fund for the development of personnel and scholarships, is increased to 5%, this is a thing that I can only support. I feel good that it is shrinking, but I understand those who will have to intervene and will have to deal with the lower costs of the organisation. Also, the item "projects for students and pensioners and funding for active employment policy measures", which has not been taken into account so far, will be welcomed, with a new 4%, which is 13 million euros, I think, at all. In view of the fact that I am an adhering to literature, it seems good that, for example, the Maribor Litera or the Ljubljana Beletrina will be able to apply for invitations to allocate funds for their activities; by the way, Litera has issued a book that she received this year’s crusader. You could still tell me what's in it for me. Otherwise, I understand that some who do not agree with this law do not want to read the law in detail. However, I find it difficult to accept the fact that we do not follow the legislative procedure in the National Assembly as legislators and that we are problematic when we discussed Monday's law on remuneration from public funds and set out beneficiaries and the amount for scholarships, which also needs to be provided for. And I regret that this is another way of blurring the actual state of things. I'm not saying that all things in this marriage are so that they can't be better. I understand the legitimate concern of the unions that the small work of the dumped employment will increase, but if we are already referring to the German model, "Minijob" is supposed to be called there, a small part, then it should be borne in mind that the Germans do not have an unspecified circle of beneficiaries, not a limited or set time gauge for a little work. This is said to be some of the improvements in our marriage, so I think that energy should focus primarily on finding the things that would protect people from custodial jobs. In particular, I am very supportive here, when they pointed out that they are alerting less social security, less job security, more exploitative jobs. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to me, on our part, what was happening at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, where those who, in my opinion, demonstrated and knew why they were demonstrating, because things were clear to them and because they pointed out abuse by employers, that they wanted some to attribute responsibility for vandalism, which had taken place in student and student demonstrations. I think it's the Ministry's job to provide the legal basis for protecting everyone. Now there's something small about social dialogue. Representatives of student organisations came to our group before they fought each other and even before there were demonstrations. But their position was hard. They said, "We oppose the Small Work Act, we will not comment, for us the Law is unacceptable, we want to have a special law on student work". Here the dialogue is disabled if one party closes the dialogue. Then we met with four or five union representatives. I cannot say that they were exaggerating on this law, but they were not opposed to this law, they were not opposed to the small work law, but I know that the Free Trade Unions are opposed to the small work law, so there is no single position between trade unions. Now, just a word about the pensioners. I strongly support the inclusion of pensioners in the small work set. Why? As the German experience is such that the number of jobs in the small part of highly qualified services and jobs is increasing. It seems a shame to take advantage of the accumulated knowledge and experience of pensioners who are still able to work and who are willing to work and who have so far been suppressed in this situation, to work on ethical grounds and to receive no payment for their work, or to do so in a purely regular form of work without bad news to work in black. Once again, I will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For starters, I would say that I welcome evolution, especially in a positive direction. If we remember, two, three years ago, we were just about to shut down student services and student work, so we were in the mood because we said that students and students were to study, not to work at it. That's how I've been supporting this evolutionary positive charge in the last year. In the course of this debate, I would like to make two observations, such as this very quickly. Why would the unemployed and pensioners, through their grandchildren or their children, go to a student service and receive a guide so that when they need some money, they can earn more. That is why, of course, this bill, which in some consistent way legalises what is now going on in an illegal way, in this respect of course I welcome, and somehow combines in one law all the forms of this additional work and earnings. As I said earlier, many critical words, comments, opinions and also judgments on student work have been made in this Chamber in recent years. The fact that there was something wrong with the student work, not least of all times, was mentioned today, and the Court of Auditors noted that in some legal persons, a number of state institutions and certain companies operating with public funds, it was found that fictitious travel was used, that calculations on individual commissions showed that some students were also working 18, 20, 22 hours a day and so on. So the subject of criticism was mainly student services, which have been changing more and more in recent years, and we must admit this, from student work intermediaries as well and, above all, to entities strengthening their capital power at the expense of the work of students and all those others who used or abused student travel. The result of such an approach and the way workers work, according to these student services, has also been the conduct of all those who have been eligible and shareholders of the funds from these concessions. Not least in the last month we have the opportunity to read how some of the participants in the student organization have used this money, which students have earned with hard and hard work, for things that have nothing to do with the student standard. And all of this is and is still being done under the thesis that only in this way, by offering student work is it possible for a large part of the student population to study. I have to say that I partially agree with this thesis and I'll tell you why. In fact, two major groups of students and students are doing their work. The first is the one who really needs this earned money to be able to make social adjustments and to be able to study. However, we also have that other group, which is not so small, that this student work or this extra profit spends on so-called so-called groups, I will say under terms, student superstandard, which, last but not least, has its own visual forms outside. So both groups devote part of the study time to work and earn and thus extend their study time, but the interests of these two groups are completely different. It is therefore appropriate to make some changes in this area. The bill on small work in this first reading, which we have before us today, is a form that allows these changes to be made. In particular, in order to break the cord when the intervention of the student's work and not least to work, I will use this difficult word of students, while studying abuse and exploitation for the acquisition activity of individual groups, and not least, as I mentioned earlier, that some preconditions are also being created for some tycoons who, within this student organisation, abuse these things for their purely personal interests. I therefore support the proposal for a law at first reading with the expectation that, in the next hearings, the law will be even clearer and not least, under quotations, firmly identify, really prevent intermediaries who will receive concessions in public contracts, write for five years in the law and then renew every five years, really prevent this gainful activity from actually having the costs they will receive from this concession, only in order to be able to act as if the central record would really prevent the abuse of fictitious performance, but not just the student work, but ultimately all forms of small work, and not only that logistics itself will need to give the greatest emphasis to logistics and travel control to prevent the abuse that has taken place in connection with the operation of these student services. On the other hand, I think it is high time that, as has been said many times today, every work can also have some positive results for the future, I think there can be no better solution than for students in particular, but now I speak for students that they have paid pension, disability and health insurance to be considered during working hours, that if the study time has already extended with five, six and seven years, they have to do this extra work to not least know them. Work experience is also important when it comes to first employment. I will draw attention to why the former Minister of Public Administration would give students a job as a job with work experience under special law and an interpretation of why all those working through student services can later benefit and use this credit rating.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u36	Dear Minister with co-workers, and before that, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I will not state everything that has already been said about the law, and we can read it in the Minister's explanation and implementation. But I'd like to point out some open dilemmas. This does not mean that I do not support the basic concept and direction of the law. I also believe that it is appropriate to have different categories: pensioners, students, workers involved in a single law and not in different. Not only because there are not so many different situations, they are specific, but because we come out of the field, they are occasional, temporary jobs, not from the status of persons who are. These can be regulated by specific chapters in the same law. With such an approach, we have a more complex field of employment relations and the labour market. The basic concept of the law introduces some very important issues. In addition to including the category of pensioners, students and unemployed, the minister has introduced what he has repeatedly stressed, the principle that each work counts. An extremely important matter which has so far not been regulated in the current arrangements. Each work is considered, and it also means that everyone contributes to the common sector, that is to say to the public sector, with contributions and taxes, but not only those who have been involved in regular working relationships have paid virtually everything, have also covered other forms of work for which little or nothing has been paid. So every job counts. This will also result in increased contributions from labour relations and, on the other hand, burdening the tax obligations of work, which we know is excessively burdened in Slovenia. It's too expensive. Not due to wages, wages are too low, given the living conditions in Slovenia. And gross wages are too high. Also because if we say, according to the famous Balkan saying, "the gajila of the horse that is towing", that is, those who have been recorded, visible, those who have paid, this has been given additional obligations, additional taxes, those who are not visible, but we have not dealt with them because they have been difficult to record. Social dialogue. The dialogue was the way it was, and everyone evaluates it in their own way. The unions say he wasn't good enough to be inadequate. I think the communication was going on, but it's true that maybe we weren't listening or listening to each other, all the arguments. One of the trade union's warnings would also be accepted in this direction, in fact, by the fear shown by this repeated German study, that relatively few workers who do little work are later involved in a regular working relationship, especially for a certain or indefinite period of time. This is a serious concern, and especially as regards unemployed persons. I would not repeat all of this because it has already been said and is known from literature that it is also good for the unemployed, that in some ways he is active in finding a job, that he is involved in active programmes or active employment policies, but that he is also involved in a certain, smaller scale of employment. And it's not just about making extra money, it's about everything that we know is useful. The worst thing we know is that the worker stays at home and waits and thinks about his fate. It's hard to get out of depression. It's going to depend very much on where this worker works. If he works for a self-employed entrepreneur, there are possible major abuses, but he would not be moralized now, simply because, a sole entrepreneur, a singer, has a significantly easier way of obtaining cash, has cash, d.o.o. can't raise cash without a reasonable reason, there must always be coverage. Here this work will be able to stretch from one hour to five hours, but we know that under such conditions the country does not have the opportunity to monitor any employer. One will be written on the passport, and in practice another will happen. In d.o.o.'s cash payments are a little difficult, but they could still be misused here. We might consider including the unemployed in a more limited sense as to the nature of the employer. I am not afraid of any greater abuse when it comes to working in the public sector, where they are not actually motivated to serve with this work, in public enterprises, in public institutions. And something else, which is the reverse position, the work in the non-governmental sector, what Mrs Andreja Montenegro has already warned about, and here, as it is said, is actually the reverse situation. A society rarely provided with resources can plan its revenues. Employment for a regular working relationship, there is almost no fixed time. It's perfectly understandable because of their status. However, if they were only more open here to allow for greater accessibility to small work, they would open up this work because of the flexibility of their activities and unclear finances and planning. With current restrictions, we are essentially closing this option because they do not meet the criteria for employment. So that would be one of the open dilemmas I mentioned. And maybe, as I've prepared a little bit here, a completely conceptual thing that I've wanted to point out for years and years and even propose. We're talking about more jobs - a little job, a job for a time and then that, I'd say, traditional work, regular full-time work for an indefinite period of time. We know that after all the analyses, this last category, which has become the highest safety of the worker, is declining. Perhaps we would approach, only now in this context is not the time in this law, but perhaps in another area of tax policy, in order to stimulate the transition of tax legislation to these most secure and permanent forms of work, by taxing these occasional, temporary works in fact, not only by taxing them, but occasionally, temporary work would have the highest tax rate, work for a certain period of time was slightly lower and this rank of employment for permanent work would have been indeterminately taxed. This would also somehow stimulate employers with taxes in order to use these occasional works only occasionally, in order to actually be an economic invoice, so that employers are paid to work with those workers who work occasionally and temporarily so that this job is actually the most expensive job for the employer. A student's work, which has been mentioned many times. Syndicates and student organisations have come a little closer to these demonstrations. Both are critical to the Small Work Act, but the Syndicate know that, at least to a certain extent, this excessive amount of student work has affected the labour market. That the scope of this work was disproportionate, excessive, as I am aware, not only in the European summit, but even in the world summit, given the scope of the student work. And no one will convince us that this did not have a certain effect. I even read some numbers, calculations on how many jobs students cover, because these numbers were very different, and I'm not going to quote them because I don't know which ones are the right ones. To also calculate, depending on what our starting point is, whether it is an average salary or a minimum wage, how many jobs are covered by student work. Much too much. Also this scheme, research, how many hours it takes to study, how many hours to work, obstetric activities show that there are imbalances. Another imbalance, on the one hand, we are recorders by number of years, when students work, I think we are just on top, so on the one hand, the largest volume of student work and the number of years to study. Somebody's gonna say it's not connected. It is probably not too disproportionate, but purely statistically we will now reduce the volume of student work by 10%, and therefore 10% will reduce the average time of study. That's certainly not too disproportionate, but it's proportional. That's not gonna convince me that these things aren't related. Of course, they are related and these anomalies need to be eliminated. Studies have been conducted, but I usually cite one such vivid example from real life. Here near me, where I live, in a store with textile industry there are 10 students employed, 2 regularly employed, the manager and the deputy, so to speak, ratio 2:10. On the vitreous ad "We are looking for a worker to work in the store – a student", call and a guide. It's a young boy. Real managers: "I don't have any travels, but I do have a certificate of school graduation." What's going on? It's a classic case. Overruled. He was a salesman, probably the only one with a commercial school in this facility, but he didn't get a job. That's what they say. We probably all agree. Student work will have to be limited. We also agree on this, in general, it has been possible for trade unions to agree on this in order to establish an intervention on a non-profit basis. So we're on strike. One of the motives – some explain it, others say it was a strike because of people’s social vulnerability, I don’t know, I have mixed feelings, it was both. Again, I would like to illustrate: there were also bottles and some sandwiches among the cubes. So it was different. Texts coming from student services also show that it was the one they most responded to under the Small Work Act. Commissions and earnings are likely to be reduced to a greater extent, and I believe that lobbyists, because this "call" is very modern, will still do much to mine this law, especially because commissions will no longer represent the area of earnings. So much because my friends are already looking at me, I spent all my time. [[background advertising]] But I've been doing this for so many years, and the mayors are dealing with other areas. My colleagues spend half an hour sometimes, but don't mind me, you'll have time to tell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar. He's not here. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. It's interesting to hear the other way around, but it's not dark, it's a little bit of work. In general, Mr Minister, I am not talking about the topics with which you come to the National Assembly, because somehow I do not feel that this area would be the closest to me. This time it's not so, for a fundamental reason, because somehow you're dealing with a small job, an area of students, which is also close to me. So I'm going to say, the solutions you're proposing in marriage, at least as far as small work and students are concerned, have my principled support. They absolutely have the principled support because, you know, when you come to the classroom, you look at the list of registered students and you see there are 40 students on this list, there are about 15, 20 students attending classes, and it's the final draw, that these 15, 20 also make exams in the first or second term. And when you're wondering where the others are, when they'll be coming, you'll find a very clear response from the students, "Yes, but they're due to their status." So if they're due to status, then something's wrong in this country. There's a study to be done in this country. Let them study to have the opportunity with scholarships to study everyone and to have colleges end up in some normal time. I stress, in some normal time, I also stressed, with appropriate scholarship policy. 60 hours a week, insurance, 14 hours a week, you're offering insurance that's not available today. 6,000 euros, if you divide it by 12, it's 500 euros. For this, gentlemen of the students, it is necessary to live, but also to study. 18 hours in college, the workers are 40 hours in jobs, if we say that the basic work of the student is studying. So my support goes in this direction and it would be wrong if I said anything else, because I also have someone at home who is a major critic in this area, and we talked a lot about it, and he put it through the whole study process and he also made it very clear that this is the right direction. And I think she's right, she's right. But there's something you need to say. We also face some other issues. The students come to me when they write their diploma in January, and I say, "Yeah, now we're going to go to the defense in February." And he says, "No, no, let's wait until September, because I'm going to lose my status." Yeah, look, it used to be different. Once, if you graduated in this case in January or February, you got six more scholarships, what was meant to be. It would also suggest thinking about things like this, because today the fact that we're quitting his scholarship on the day of graduation is, at the moment, without a scholarship, I don't think it's right. We're stimulating him to be up to 30. 9th grader. So, it would also suggest that we think about these things and see what time it is. What escapes me, however, are these other provisions relating to pensioners and so on. I don't have the most elaborate opinion. I will listen to a lot of further consideration of this law, because it also raises the question whether it is right for pensioners to work in some way, but at the same time we have unemployed people who know that they can also serve small jobs. But as far as employees are concerned, I have a feeling that you are chasing some emergency exit – because of the hard labour market we come up with this solution. I would probably point out the rigidity of the labour market to think more about. In short, I don't have the right direction to go. Social dialogue. Earlier, a fellow Croat mentioned social dialogue with students, with workers and so on, and I heard there from the opposite bench: "Oh, come on, this part bothers me, social dialogue!" Ladies and gentlemen, when we and the unions and others, with students and so on, talked about what salary raises, the amount of regression, it went up plus, in a few years for several percent, and the unions were not satisfied with any increase if you want. Excuse me, I have heard very clearly from you: "No, we will not support the marriage because you have not aligned it with the social partners!" You also went to the elections beautifully so that you said Slovenia could lead better, especially through dialogue with the social partners. Now show him! You know him better than the right-hand man does, but I don't think so. I spoke to trade unionists, whom the Minister of Transport doesn't even want to accept, send them to the government, which is to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the question is 3 to 5,000 jobs. They won't accept them. Is that a dialogue? However, this dialogue bothers me, even though we must be objective in this area. I am well aware that this dialogue will not always and everywhere at all costs. At some point, it will have to be stopped and it will be necessary to decide both in the Government and in Parliament, but not when you are in opposition, as sarcastic about this social dialogue as you were in your previous mandate. Now you can see that it can't always be carried out. And it probably won't always be possible to take him out. But we know we're only down there. Let me get this straight. Mr. Minister, in the part where you're talking about a little student-related work, you have absolutely my support. This is also in response to those who, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at the hearing of student demonstrations before Parliament, have shown me some sort of convergence with the student organisation. No, I very much distinguish their content requirements from you, where I support you, and not the student organisation, and between what happened before Parliament, where the student organisation cannot bear the basic blame for events, but what an anarchist group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I will not discuss or answer to my colleague about dialogue and so on, and I will rather pursue what we are finally here today when we are discussing the Small Work Act. Let me begin by saying that, like some of my predecessors, I support the law in the first reading in most ways, not least because of the origins and the goals. It is a law that regulates work, paid and temporarily, not least for all generations or for all those who want to get involved in this work. And of course, the law finely and very carefully regulates the ways, procedures, control and control of all topics and thus ultimately contributes to the regulation of certain irregularities or circuits that are also taking place in the labour market today. On the contrary, as some do, I believe that it is good and right and only right to regulate everything and that no one can be excluded, but at least, of course, young people who, not least when entering the labour market with their wishes or needs, should be subject to the same criteria from the outset. When we talk about dialogue, it is difficult to talk about dialogue if it is not, or always takes, two. If one remains, goes from the table or even goes to the road, then this dialogue is very difficult to establish. But what has kept me going over the last few months is that I haven't seen any concrete proposals, what is finally certain groups, governmental or non-governmental organisations, what is disturbing what concrete proposals are. We know that there are very good analyses, we need a far greater order in this area, and we see that certain large funds, thousands and thousands of euros are somehow being lost or not being invested where they are needed. For this reason, I also find concrete proposals, which are reinforced in the law by analysis and statistics, when we talk about the limits of earnings per year and, of course, also on the limitation of working days, weekly, annually and monthly for students and also for older people, a good proposal. Finally, it brings security, just as it did from its previous job or professional work, there were many differences when young people negotiated about how long they would be on the clock today. The bill is a very fine item, where 4 euros is the minimum and last but not least the payment of the one who is also doing the work. Of course, we can discuss how much annual income is allowed, but as the Minister has explained everything in detail before almost half an hour from the heading to the heading on the article, from chapter to chapter, we are some who have already studied and we are doing a lot of work and talking to students whose main task is to study. The average study in Slovenia, according to data, is almost 7 years, which is quite a long time for me if I take away studies that have a regular study age of six and six and a half years. And that's why I think – and here I'm going to make sure that the law on certain areas is further supplemented – that this is one contribution or also a source to allow some extra tolar for the scholarship fund. Because, on the other hand, if we have a crisis and a lot of young students who can't afford to pay for their lives and study standards, their task is to study, and for these young people and, of course, families too, scholarships and, of course, suitable conditions for study, in all those environments where they are studying. In addition to cities, university cities, we also have an increasing number of students in Celje, an ever-increasing population with no basic conditions, not least stays and a good environment for this study. And here we have to take a step forward. Here, however, the government must consider fully and discuss the situation of students in a new law. But when we talk about the small work law, which brings security, security, intergenerational cooperation, I feel or fully support and will support the law in the first reading. As I said, I will probably still talk about certain percentages, as indicated at the beginning of the law, not least the Minister, at least I hope that he will listen, and if we come here with any arguments, of course he will increase some percentage or half percent for the scholarship fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly support the Small Work Act because it is a good basis for regulating this very pressing problem, which is because the student work has become rich to the point that as many as two thirds of students should work to be able to study. And this subterfuge or claim of the Student Organisation that only so students can study if they have the right to such an extensive, I think, given the number of participants, the student work is at odds with the results talking about how long he has been studying. She's studying too long because I believe that student work has become more important than study, for a lot of people. That's one thing. Of course, it cannot be past the fact that control alone cannot eliminate the abuses that are taking place in this area. And it is necessary to determine by law, for example, by which year someone else can work as a student, or to determine that they should work only by the student who regularly studies at the first enrolled university. Not that he's been changing colleges for five years and doesn't do anything about college. Because I know a student who works for five years, she's enrolled in five colleges, and of course she hasn't made a single year. In fact, this law allows things to be regulated so that such anomalies do not occur. Nor can the opposition of pensioners be accepted. Years ago, three of my pensioners invited me to an interview to find a solution to the creation of a pension service for work that would allow pensioners to obtain such or other work for a few hours, for half a day a week or so, because many still want to work and many would actually fix their material position. And it's actually a possibility for pensioners to have a better and more productive and creative life of their late years. Nor can the opposition of employees be accepted. They have a job and actually they don't care. Little work is an opportunity for the unemployed. And they can be concerned if they do nothing and come not only out of condition but also out of the will to do something in life. At the same time, a small amount of work may benefit. With regard to the opposition of the Student Organisation, however, it should be said that this organisation has prepared students for demonstrations with a notorious ease in bringing the state to an end to the student work. Also, all those who have strongly opposed this basis in their deliberations today to regulate this important segment, the areas of work and the labour market have not read the law, in my firm opinion. I read it myself three times to understand individual solutions, and I think they're good in many ways. This does not mean that the law cannot be improved or that amendments can lead to an even better regulation of this area. The abuses that many point out will still be possible, but I believe they will. But if we raise the fines properly for those we catch, they will think three times before they abuse the possibility of doing something differently than they should. As for the students themselves, I must say that most of them have not demonstrated themselves. I know a student who said she was in her 40s in class, and not a single colleague or colleague went to a demonstration. But they were ashamed of what happened, because of the iconography, I can say, the expression will say a lot about those who demonstrated it. If I count down the fact that they were taken there, the kids are drunk and so on. I do not agree with such demonstrations and with such a dialogue that is going in the direction or-or not. I will support this marriage as a form that is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We are also discussing labour and health legislation at this meeting, without prior agreement on its content on the Economic and Social Council. This raises the question of what should be the objective of social dialogue at all. Only if we have a clear common objective of social dialogue can it be said whether this objective has been achieved and whether social dialogue has been successful. The social dialogue certainly does not mean that all parties exchange their views and then the Government and Parliament decide in accordance with their opinion. Nor can social dialogue be successful simply by meeting every requirement of one or all parties. What, then, should be the common objective of social dialogue and when has it been successful? The common objective of social dialogue should be, as the name already says, to strengthen social security for the population. This is also related to the health and labour security of the population. In order to set such objectives, all social partners should be sufficiently responsible. When social and related labour and health security of the population is declining, social dialogue is certainly unsuccessful. If we look at what has been going on for many years with the social, health and labour security of the population, then we can certainly say that social dialogue has not been sufficiently successful all the years since independence, as these rights have been largely reduced, to this limit, that today the social, health and labour security of the population are at risk. We can therefore say that since Slovenia's independence, the social partners have not been responsible enough for the population and for their legitimate demands to conduct social dialogue while setting that common goal. This is to ensure sufficient social and related health and labour security for every population. From the point of view of this common objective of social dialogue, the Government was right not to comply with Fides’ request, as excessive payments by doctors in view of the financial situation of the health treasury endanger human health rights and thereby the social and health security of the population. From the point of view of this objective, the Government also had a minimum wage increase when insisting. It is also the task of the Government to arrange for the current inadequate student work, which leads to the availability of students with enormously high amounts, with which they are also buying sailboats, parking lots, and others to study unnecessary investment, or even endangering internal democracy with deviations, such as bribery with amounts at which many workers are turned in their heads. It would be appropriate for the Government and the social partners to agree on an appropriate scholarship policy so that students can focus on study rather than on work to survive. To this end, further dialogue is also needed with regard to the law that we are considering today. It is not right that we have obtained legislation in the parliamentary procedure with content that also makes social and related labour and health security of the population worse. The differences between the social partners would not be insurmountable if all the parties had mentioned a common objective and if they were sufficiently responsible, if the purpose of dialogue and social communication were indeed to improve the social and related labour and health security of the population. In the light of the experience in the world on the serious consequences of small work, as far as unemployment is concerned, social dialogue should end differently than it does. For I believe that no one, neither employers nor even less government, wants the number of workers doing small jobs to grow. I believe that no one wants them to become vulnerable to standard employment and to increase poverty, which is the experience of other countries in the field of small work when carried out by unemployed persons. Nor do I believe that the Government and most employers, truly satisfied, would be able to lower labour standards and, instead of working for short periods of time, which offers all rights from a working relationship, start to use little work. With modern slave labor, with sick populations and empty stomachs, there cannot be adequate development. The Union of Free Trade Unions and the Movement for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health required the withdrawal of two draft laws from the labour legislation package or the withdrawal of the draft Health Act. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have been obedient to these requirements, and at the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, the leader of our Group announced the withdrawal of the controversial proposals of the Labour Relations Act and the proposal for a Health Action Act. The small work bill, which we are considering today, is intended to remove content at issue. This is the inclusion of unemployed persons in this law. That's also why I'm going to support this marriage. In doing so, I expect that the Government and Members will continue to engage in social dialogue with trade unions, students, pensioners and other civil society, of course with the common objective of social dialogue, as I stated at the beginning of my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrakov's digger made a statement on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! However, when the debate is under way, certain arguments need to be stated several times, and some other clarifications may be made even more clearly. It seems to me that it is very important in this debate on the Small Work Law to link it primarily with a set of labour market regulation laws that are interconnected and are actually the logic of the new regulation of the labour market, which is basically to find a balance between the necessary flexibility necessary for economic survival, the competitiveness of the economy and, on the other hand, the security of all those entering this labour market. And the concepts that have been in the past need to change because the time in which we operate, all these entities, both employers and us who enter the market as workers, need to change. And in fact, this is, I will continue to highlight some of the segments, one of the key objectives of the Small Work Act. Because if we look at today's situation, at this point in time, as in the labour market, we find that we have a working relationship where we define elements in the labour law, both the content of the working relationship for an indefinite period, the shorter form, among other things, we have flexible forms that do not have any aspect of social security, the key, the key, and the dominant mainly student work. So, at this point in time, we have a student job in the Republic of Slovenia, which represents 2 to 4% of the entire labour market, where students and students who do this work are completely without all social rights. The only thing they are provided with is the payment for their work, and there is not even a minimum limit on their hourly position. So this most cruel flexible form of work is possible, which is also very competitive, because it represents only 55% of the cost of a normal employee, which is very interesting from the employer's point of view. It is interesting that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, in its views on this proposal, in itself warns that, due to disproportionately favourable tax burden, student work constitutes serious competition for other forms of employment. These warnings come from the Chamber of Commerce and it is probably up to us, you, as legislator, us as proponents to do something in this area. The bill goes in this direction because it brings those key rights, the right to basic social security, which is primarily in the direction of ensuring a safe age, because ultimately this will be crucial, because of demographics, because of trends, this is a key focus that we will all have to deal with, and especially crucial for students, as soon as they enter the labour market, are real work experience, recognition of work experience. The analysis shows that in young people the problem of entering the labour market is mainly that they do not have officially recognised work experience, this is a key argument from the employer. It was with this bill that we wanted to respond to the key problems of young people entering the labour market, of course. It's, I think, very important to point out. Moreover, if we only consider student work, we actually find that they are losing within this law, they are only partially losing student services, which, as was said, is just a non-profit intervention, which is the only right thing. At the same time, with very detailed calculations and a review of how much staff costs have now been provided in the student service, we provide them with a share of the concession, we provide them with sufficient resources to ensure that all employees currently working, if of course they obtain the concession, are able to maintain their working relationship and carry out their activities further. As has already been pointed out to the student organisation, we have ensured autonomy with a share of the funds. As has already been said, we do not have a problem with being involved in the distribution of funds, but it must be done in a transparent way. This is now possible with the establishment of a budget fund, which is then subject to the rules of the Public Procurement Act and any other rules that are key to ensuring transparent public distribution. As far as this scholarship debate is concerned. Multiple highlights – grants will be provided. This is precisely why the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds includes a segment of the State Grants so that higher state grants will be granted before the implementation of the Small Part Act. So, one of the key concerns of the students who, at the beginning of this discussion about this law and the origins of the law, were heard and arranged. The second segment, which is largely debated, is with regard to the unemployed. It is important that we be aware that this work is voluntary. Thus, it is not the same as it used to be with the recipient law to cash social assistance when they have to work under a commercial and copyright contract to be entitled to financial social assistance. No, no, no. Here we leave a free decision for unemployed people to work if they want to. It is also interesting when you talk about German studies and mention them, one of the last published on Eurofand’s websites is the European Dublin Agency in March 2010, which clearly shows the analysis of the German system, that flexible forms of employment increase opportunities for these people to enter into regular working relationships. On the other hand, it is very important, in terms of poverty and social security, that the risk of poverty in regular workers and those working in flexible forms of employment has been clearly demonstrated, that this comparison clearly shows that the risk is greater in those who are flexible in employment, but – and this is important – significantly lower than in those who are unemployed and inactive. This is a key idea of this law to allow actually unemployed people to be included in these forms of work that will allow them to jump forward. This is part of an active policy, an active social policy. With a very important emphasis on not losing their primary rights. At the moment, if an unemployed person works and earns more than €65 in cash, this right or right to a financial compensation is reduced. The security guard, which was incorporated into the Labour Market Regulation Act, put this amount on EUR 200, which is also linked to the possible income from the Small Work Act. So we have opened up the possibility of working without prejudice to their fundamental social security, which is guaranteed by the status of unemployed persons. And that seems to me to be very important when we open up the question of unemployed people. As for the question of how this will affect the labour market as a whole, it is also very important when we compare the German system, that we know that the German system does not have the same limitations as we do, which we are now also introducing because of the experience we have with student work. Therefore, we have many guardians at the level of an individual, as much as they can work, at the level of the employer, which is a key safeguard in how much they can and what works they can perform, it will no longer be possible to do what is happening now, so that some employers can carry out their activities only with employees through student travel. That won't be possible anymore. And this is a very important aspect of stabilising the labour market. But I'd like to open one more thing. When we speak on the one hand to demand that we reduce the fees or contributions paid from the student work, within a small part and others, it is very important that we know that this is contrary to the union's position. Indeed, for which forms the employer will choose in the labour market, the cost of work is a very important factor. The lower the price, the more open it will be, and the more the employer will serve it. It is interesting that employers do not have difficulties with this amount of contributions because they are aware that fundamental social security must be ensured if certain forms of work are to be carried out. This, how we determine the price, and from one very fundamental point of view, is very important if we lower the price of small work, it also has consequences for labour prices throughout the market. By putting on a careful review of the burden at which we put little work, we had in mind the whole issue of the labour market and all the different forms of working conditions and thus the contributions that workers have to pay in different forms of employment. Indeed, for these proposals included in the law, a number of analyses have been carried out in the back, and a very detailed analysis of the costs of student services has been carried out, which appears to be a problem for us to give them a low concession to implement this duty. So we cannot agree that there is really no substantial consideration for all of these proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I recognize the need for change in this area in two major problems. First of all, our young people's high average unemployment rate. I think that these young people are the greatest untapped opportunity of this country to have hidden many potentials in them for what we want to do at the strategic level in this country. This is a transition to a different economy, an economy that will be based more on the knowledge and creativity of our people. Secondly, the problem of the grey economy. International assessments, evaluations by international organisations show that work in this country is between 17% and 26% of gross domestic product. This is a huge potential, which today not only creates some injustices that exist in important parts of the world, which may lead to dangerous processes in society, but also represent an enormous weakening of our common commitment, that we will maintain a social state in this country and that this social state will be able to give encouragement to a person who is on the threshold of flight after success, and protection and assistance to those who cannot take care of themselves differently. This also weakens the social registers. Because of this 17 to 26% of the gross social product going through our system, we also have problems in the pension system, we have problems in the health system and other parameters of the social state, which this economy should also supply. I understand little work as an attempt to capture as much of this black economy as possible in an efficient, systematic way in this country. The main debate on small work has so far focused on the situation of students, and I absolutely attach to those student positions that say that so far student work has provided many students in this country with the ability to study that the link between the weak social status of an individual and the need for him to make sure that he or she is able to come to know. I am therefore pleased to see changes in the field of scholarship policy. The changes it introduces, which we will also vote on at the final stage of this meeting, ensure the greatest increase in scholarships, both at their level and at the level of scholarships in the history of this country. Are we satisfied with this? No, no, no. I think that further reflection will be needed at the inter-ministerial level in connection with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Higher Education, as well as the Ministry of Education, to provide more scholarships in the perspective and to get as close as possible to an ideal of as universal scholarships. Nevertheless, I am also of the opinion because I have a deep experience with this student work, and I say that today would not be what I am if there were no student work. Because I think that student work in this country has given many not only experience, not only the wealth of the social network that they have created through this work, but also some orientation in life, how to build their careers, how to build their individual success, how to make this society as successful as possible, satisfied individuals, who will be able to share this success in solidarity with the community in which we live. Months ago, I was expected by the great banner of Calvary in Maribor by Frangež, who said that this banner was installed by one of the student officials who came to the student organization before me because of the small work law, and he is still there. Every government has announced changes in student work so far, but this may be the most radical of the proposals that have been put forward. But I think it is also important because little work or student work does not make it an isolated process, but integrates it into all the developments in the labour market and is fully in line with the ambitions set by our government in the field of labour law, as well as the labour market regulation law. In these changes, I see no neoliberal changes, as some have seen. I see the realization of some Scandinavian model, which will be able to adapt our society, our labour market, our people to changed economic circumstances, because stiffness does not affect this small country, which must be flexible, which must be innovative if it is to be successful at its global performance. That I won't be too long, let me just make a few recommendations. I think that if we are to ensure a successful system with little abuse, we must strive for the simplicity of this system, where the system breaches will be as visible as possible. Here I see in the Small Work Bill a few more reserves, a few more possibilities for simplifying the system and bringing it closer to the effectiveness of the existing student work. And one warning I give, I don't think it's the right recipe to rely on if student services or employment agencies don't do this part of the job intervention, we still have the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that for at least eight years, there is a regulation that this work can also be provided by the Employment Service, and let's see how much of the shares it provides, virtually in no way. Even the state is looking for student work through student services, and this is one institute that has some value. I'm not saying there aren't many anomalies here either, but I think that's one of the things to be careful about in the process. Division of concessions. On the one hand, we have rich student organisations, on the other hand, we have poor youth organisations. There's got to be some new balance here. For our understanding, it is precisely because of my experience in student organisation that I claim that student organisation and also this autonomy of student organisation, provided by this concession fee, has many good things and that student organisations have in the past been able to set up new activities, new projects that have represented an important enrichment of student interest activities as well as the wider interests of the community. In my own time as I led the University of Maribor Student Organisation, we have set up some such projects, of which these projects still live and represent, I will say, the backdrop not only for students but also for the community, such as the Institute of PIP, which is the largest non-governmental organisation to provide free legal assistance to all socially disadvantaged people. The hint and the advice may be, in particular, that this system can only be better done if we remain faithful to this social dialogue. And it wasn't the country's fault, I was trying to get the students to come back at the table myself. Without students, in important work without student services, without their creative participation in these changes, it will not be possible to provide an optimal system. I am firmly convinced that this debate may also sound like an invitation to return to the table and to create changes that are good at their foundation. If we have devoted much of our attention to students in addressing this law, I must say that some warnings from trade unions have shown that we need to reconsider what the Small Work Act presents to us in flexibility in the labour market as a whole. The concept provided by this government, the concept provided by Minister Svetlik, is a concept of safe flexibility. Security from flexibility. And in this respect, it seems to me that we can open up an area that may result in poor solutions, so we need to rethink them, re-think them within the social dialogue, especially the situation of the unemployed within this system, so that we can finally come up with optimal solutions. As we say, I support the concept, it goes in the right direction, but I think we have some work to do for successful solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! After all the debates recently and also all the events that have taken place, I tend to see that change is necessary. Even now, through the granite centre, so to speak, there are many irregularities in student organisations, from the way the student constitution is adopted to the bribery vote, to the controversy, the accusations and so on and so forth. It's more than obvious that this is where one came from, I'll say in the apron, the student lobby, which, along with student services, works like a well-oiled machine. Unfortunately, it is the students themselves, that are the real students, those who are studying, those who are not students in order to have the status, as has already been said today, those who are being exploited in this case. There are no social adjustments to the student work and there can be no student work in our country and there must be no social corrections. But, in fact, it's true that it is. So that student work in our case, unfortunately, is social corrective. And it's systemic, and it's also wrong. Student time is the time to study. And during this time, students should focus and focus primarily on the study. The interests of all should be, especially students in the country, that this time is as short as possible. So that the student gets the desired education as soon as possible and that with this desired education post-festum will be employed as soon as possible. This can only happen if it is mainly focused and focused on studies and nothing else. From my own experience, I say that it is not possible to normally, stress normally, study and go to work at the same time. On chemical technology in Maribor we had morning lectures, which were conditionally mandatory, about six hours a day. It's conditional, of course, because if you weren't in class, you had a much smaller chance of being able to pass the exam. However, this afternoon, of course, mandatory laboratory exercises, where the presence was a condition in each exercise so that you could even join the exam. My colleague, Mr Germič, has been particularly strict here and has not left anyone missing in the exercises and then had, if missing, the opportunity to join the exam. But that was the right thing to do, because otherwise it just couldn't, and I'm grateful for it. It follows that there was no time for other matters. And a similar study as this one was on chemical technology, where laboratory work is required, is probably medicine, there are other technical studies, a natural science study. I'm saying it's not possible to study these studies normally if you're doing another job and I don't know what you want and what you want to do at the same time, as it's called, finish or within a normal period. Sometimes even some exam fails and you lose a year or so, and that's something else. But within my normal time frame, it's not possible. Unfortunately, however, the biggest problem is the social status of students, to which the country has been a country in recent years, we must acknowledge, forget a little and leave it to the ingenuity of the students themselves. To be honest, the student’s services have also added one honest writer. And that something is also wrong here, the facts show that these services set up bypass companies to sponsor, among other things, television shows and so on. I don't think that's normal. If so, student services have been set up for a specific mission, not to have strange things happening here in the background. Because student work has become a social adjustment, our study time on average has increased. We can all agree on that, and it is not good for this country. But students need scholarships. Once again: Students need scholarships. This is a social adjustment. That students will also be able to study from my end, from Prekmurje, not to say from the White Country or possibly from Trenta, from Bovec in the same time period in Ljubljana, Maribor and other places in Slovenia, so we need scholarships. Here we expect from the Ministry, especially from Minister Svetlik, that, perhaps by the end of this consideration of this law in the National Assembly or by the end of the procedure of this law in the National Assembly, there is also a law on scholarship in the National Assembly. And in order to achieve some parallel treatment and a number of Members here in the National Assembly will be easier to decide to support one and the other. Let me mention that what is being dealt with in the law on the regulation of rights from public funds, where it is determined how to redefine the right to a state grant, where appropriate housing is mentioned. And if we compare right now here in Ljubljana with one farm in Prekmurje, for example, parents have the same income, the question is whether both students will really get a scholarship or not. And here I think we can go into one new anomaly, where those who are far away will be, because they live on a farm, but on a farm it's worth something, but the income is low, they barely survive, again in a worse situation than those who live in cities. Therefore, in this case, we must not forget the countryside, and particular attention should be paid to it. The student work has failed completely and is, in my opinion – and this has been said several times today – a great anomaly in the labour market, in particular, logically, due to the non-payment of pension and disability insurance. This institution is exploited at all levels and is a serious, competitive problem for other jobs. In fact, in some areas today, we almost no longer find employment for an indefinite period of time because, in fact, students do everything. For example, hospitality is certainly such a case. And I'll give you another concrete example. And I'm terrified, and that's why I want to make it public. The former director of women's clothes in Mura, my age, with crazy management experience, is in this process, I'll say, closing the Wall also ran out of work and looking for a job today. Everything offered to her in Pomure is public works or work through student services. But it is not normal for God's sake that one manager who has had so much and so many years of experience will now go through the student service to work, because I will say, of course, companies are looking at every cost and it's the cheapest and they just offer it. Where did we actually come from? In fact, student work has become a part-time job. However, work for an indefinite period became work for a certain period of time. That's where we're going. It is right, and here, of course, I support the Minister, that we really take one step forward in this area to make order. That is why I am firmly convinced that this needs to be settled. However, I expect, as I have said, that the preparation of the law on scholarships should be accelerated and that it should be brought into the procedure of the National Assembly before the conclusion of the procedure on this law. It will make it much easier for me to decide for myself to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u51	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! Certainly this small work law has sparked very many controversial debates and it is likely that some changes are also necessary. Without an economy based on knowledge, there is no possibility for real and real development, there is no possibility for added value and there is no possibility for much of what we have set ourselves in various strategic documents. And without a serious study, there is no possibility of any future economy. And a serious study without a certain policy of scholarship is not possible. I think that in this area this legislation also allows and gives us the opportunity to see how and how students will be able to study without the said student work. Of course, it is clear that all changes and cuts are painful, and that is why they are so controversial. Anyway, let me be brief. The marriage is a very suitable foundation, and I will support it. However, I am very skeptical of administrative obstacles because we have set ourselves in this government that we have to bridge them in some way. How and how does the Minister feel that the central register of small works will be carried out, because if we want to reduce administrative obstacles and if we are going to reduce administrative costs, I think we should offer a better solution. And let's give our colleagues a chance to tell their story.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u53	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u54	Your Honor! First of all, we should probably have a debate in Parliament about what social dialogue is. Because thinking that if the marriage proposal is not in line with the partners, then the National Assembly cannot accept it, then I don't know why we're sitting here. Let the unions and the ministers get together and we'll go home. I have to say, when we talk about students, it's about the abuse of student crowds, and we have a whole range of students who really work, study and earn pensions, if I say so myself. But of course we have student tycoons, but that's another problem, so I'm not gonna deal with it. Another area I'd like to point out is active pensioners who want to work. You may not know that in Italy, when there is a harvest, these robbers are controlled by the financial police with a helicopter. They count and go on the basis of a partial number to the master to ask how he pays and how they are protected. It's a democracy. Order must be. And why wouldn't a pensioner work if he was capable? We need help protecting, cleaning houses, intellectual work and the like, on farmers, and if this is arranged, why would it not run and improve our standard? But it will only be regulated by this law, which is now being prepared, and I fully support it, with the changes that will probably be necessary to keep the matter clean. Students are slaves today because they're being exploited. Here they are offered a contribution to health insurance, a contribution to the accident, a pension base will grow and so on. And that's why they're throwing stones into parliament? Well, come on! They're abused, misinformed, and I think the unions here are doing themselves a very bad favor. I am sure that what Mr Žerjav said before me, the scholarships, the scholarship policy, which is promised, is up to EUR 400, for example. However, there are also students, children of parents who do not fully need all social assistance from the State. There's also a selection to be made here. Why would some extremely wealthy citizen be paid for his child's studies? So it will take sobriety and great thought. Mr. Minister, you deserve credit for all these documents and for stopping all the spitting, including the unionists who are in the State Council talking, politics and I don't know what. Let's get everybody on the ground a little bit. And given the situation in the world, we need to get used to living and working differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u55	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u56	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! I must say that I am sure that some regulation in the field, which is now declared as a small job and also includes student work and the work of the unemployed, is necessary. I agree with that, there are a lot of riots, abuses and all that. And from another point of view, I think that this debate and this law have brought some clarification of the division within student organisations and also within society. It is no different for me to understand, God forbid that anyone interprets, that the destruction of Parliament and the abuse of students and students, especially students, was something positive. There the students were mostly, especially students, underage, abused. And the last time we spoke on the Internal Policy Committee, when we were faced with more information, we could already see the outline of this abuse, which obviously included the ruling policy. Apparently, intelligence services, or intriguers, were involved, provocateurs, recruits among students, even with former anti-globalists who are now under other names and other fronts, but all of this, of course, did not endure under the cover. These jobs have come in a day, and they'll be more visible every day. It is also partly in the strong interest of those who abused the student work; these are the student barons, the tycoons who have spent their entire lives as student officials and serve with it. When I look at these numbers, how much is it about a scholarship in an existing state, how much for student organisations and student services, relationships are broken on the head. The farthest thing to do is to go to scholarships. But here there has been a long, long-standing question about these student tycoons, and through the services of these winners, we know them in the country, and they are now extremely strong and they have virtually all the support of the ruling elite, because they are influential. And, of course, there's something that needs to be done here. I have to say, I'm a long way from throwing all the student officials in the same basket. Not knowing that they are also extremely honest and concerned about student rights in general. And I also understand those arguments when they oppose these things when they propose solutions and updates and better solutions. Look, everyone we've studied, most of them also have some experience with student work. I have to say that a student travel agent was being abused at the time, because I was faced with the fact that, after the exam, a colleague was already being addressed by a professor who had worked with an institute to recruit a travel agent for this bypass funding, including in the previous system. I was either so honest or stupid that I turned it down for commission because I thought it was a crime. However, of course, I did not go to inform my colleague because he was actually also in social distress and had already worked through a student and this is how the professor came to him. Even then it was happening, most of all in colleges among professors who were connected to a wider area of construction, real estate and certainly, I'm sure, even in social activities, with us, in chemistry, I don't think that was possible, there was no possibility. Of course, student work also has positive consequences, experience is gained. But I'm guessing it also has bad consequences. I didn't understand my colleague Frangez before when he said he had a lot of experience and that he wouldn't be what he is if there wasn't student work. And I wonder if his student work hurt him, stopped him on his way to his graduation. Because I know when he was elected, I read he was a high school graduate. Now I don't know what his status is now, it probably hurt him. Did he get in touch with politics through college work? Did he get privileged jobs? Did his student work distract him from his studies? All of this is possible, and these can also have bad consequences. But he didn't say that if he said he was in social distress, that he had to take the road, then the student work saved him. And here, when we go to what solutions are in this marriage. As I have already said, some are positive, and more transparency and order must be done, but the ministry has the opportunity to re-sit with students, I hope that by then those who give bribes that have too much money, separated from those who will negotiate, and that the authentic representatives of the student population and not the student officials by the profession will be sitting against the minister and that this law will also experience those changes that are necessary in the course of completion, which will only be in the interest of not being made in a way that, in the light of the reduced scope and opportunities of the student work, those who actually from social, existential zeros will work through student service. And in these student services, you know, there was some exploitation back then and some privileged access. Even then, those who studied the least received the best work, and they were, for example, the worst students, because apparently, I didn't know that at the time, they also had the ability to drop the fees, to lubricate, in their own words, and this anointing is at a time that is uplifting, essential. And I think that student work can also have negative consequences. I asked there earlier whether the fellow Member had had negative consequences. His economic situation is probably positive. I've read somewhere that it's already a much better standard than me, who's been in industry for 20 years. So all of this needs to be assessed. Mr Minister, in fact, be dialogueal, take the initiative of students that those positive initiatives will be incorporated into the law-making process, so that it will actually be in favour of the Slovenian student population. But find a way to eliminate those who abuse this system, who corrupt it, from corruption. Otherwise, I doubt this government will be able to do it. If Mr Golobič says we live in a country where there is bribery in politics and in the media. We ask your colleague Shirca, specifically whose bribery, she rudely says: "I will not face the Golubic, you face him yourself." If a minister in the government tells you something about corruption, and you certainly have information about what happens to this money that happens, and then no one will give the authorities any further pursuit of it, then it is not possible to get out of this spiral that goes down. I hope that you intend to take us out of this mud, which, especially at the time of this government, is in a number of areas. We hope the spoils will be positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u57	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Before I go to the debate, an old rule must be laid out which says that it is necessary to clean up before its threshold and then to go elsewhere. Otherwise, I have to admit, this marriage is ahead of us and it's going in the right direction. In particular, I support it at the expense of this, because what others say is wrong is a common document that protects students, students, pensioners, the unemployed and so on. As long as I still have time, I would just like to try to appeal to this very, very important fact that has been said a while ago, that is, to prevent work on the black, employment on the black. I ask you, Your Honor, to take this seriously, with discretion. At this point, it's time to look at what it's like to have peer-to-peer assistance in terms of black work, how it is with [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you. I'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u59	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u60	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! I must say that I am pleased that we have Members on the benches really the first law that comes out and is also an integral part of the Republic of Slovenia's exit strategy for 2010-2013 and is interfering with a very difficult area, the area of labour law. This law interferes with the regulation of the labour market and I myself grew up because professions have already been mentioned here today, even in a farm where work has always been valuable and we have been told from a small point of view that if we do not work, there will be no bread, there will be nothing to eat. Therefore, I think it is high time in Slovenia that we put work back in the centre of value, as something that can be lived with honor and which is the basis for the prosperity of an individual, a company or society as a whole. I'm afraid that we've gone through a number of areas in recent years to very deviant areas where it's simply better to have student status in student time because there's been some calculation to make it better for you, whether it's extra work or getting some social support more or something like that, not to mention that it's often among the unemployed to hear that it's better to keep this status, because when they're counting all the rights in this status, maybe even better than to get some less paid job. I am afraid that this is the wrong direction, and I am sure that this is the wrong direction, and therefore I welcome such laws as the Small Work Act, which I think is certainly returning work as a fundamental value and a thing to enable an individual to survive easier. Today, there has been a speech that a new social contract needs to be reached in society, and there is also a real need to follow the changes in the time that is happening to us. And if we look today at who the actual parties are in this social contract in the Republic of Slovenia, I see three of those that I can assess as some groups, on the one hand, on the other hand, an economy and a third partner in this form is a state as an institution and one that provides common public good and good to an individual. And when we look at who these individuals are and how we are deployed, we see that there are as many as a million 50,000 people who belong to the category of children, students, students, unemployed or retired, there are called inactive people, and then there are 750 thousand of those employees, of whom, as we know, there are so many and so many, say, 150 thousand employees in public administration. And today, when we listen to these broad debates about this law, as well as about others who are coming into the procedure, we wonder who is representing whom and who is very loud today. I fear that those who are currently employed in the real sector, in the economy, in this entire arrangement are the worst represented and that there is much more to the students, the unemployed, including workers employed in public administration, the pensioners, and in some ways I fear that this social contract will be followed in this negotiation and in the conclusion of this agreement only by how loud the lawyers are and how convincing they are in the public, how they perform that social contract will ultimately be very poor. That's why I think that the path that you, Mr. Secretary, take is the right path that is not easy and that will not be praised many times. However, I think that the path that leads society into some normal arrangement, with which we will enter into an agreement in this social contract, is such that initially everyone will have to take care of himself if he gets into trouble, will have to have in the background a social state that we are building together, and from there you can also expect help from society from individuals. If I go to these categories discussed in this part, I myself estimate that the basic purposes of the law are in all three categories, in the student work, in the unemployed and in the pensioners, that these are the right orientations, because I estimate that if we look at the student work, it is certainly necessary to keep this work as a social correction at the previous time, as has been said many times today, a quality scholarship policy that will really guide students into the study and it will be just a minor correction and not some form of system play. It has certainly also been shown in these last months that, in this context of the student work of a group, which has come to some position that would gladly retain it, and I think it is right to agree in society that the position of the student organisation today, as well as the student service, the largest of the distribution of this cake, is unlikely and that this is the way it is done here. In the second part, when we're talking about inactive unemployed people who don't do some activity, I think it's very right to arrange some organised legal solution that allows in some part this complementary activity, as you said, and that is really the form in which someone can also fix this status. That is why I think that in this palette from small work to work for our fixed work until permanent employment, this is a very grateful correction and instrument with which an individual will be able to perform in this labour market. As far as the work of the pensioners is concerned, I absolutely support this form, because I think that the experiences of the younger pensioners, those who can also transfer some values to the younger generation, are very valuable, and many times these people have difficulties in retirement or not. I think that one such form can really be a suitable form for people in these first years of retirement to endure this experience in such a way, but at the same time, to take advantage of this potential of younger pensioners, because in this structure, when we look at how many people today are creating to make the country function as a whole, I think we will have to make a strong use of these resources. If there are resources in young people to get a job as soon as possible, I am also convinced that resources are among pensioners and that this will be a small job among pensioners one of the forms that will be well accepted. A form that can also save a person’s retirement, give space to a younger colleague, and perhaps some work for a shorter period of time will also contribute to this work. I think it will be necessary to be very sensitive to NGOs. I also consider these NGOs to be some kind of binding society, as something that, in its own way, allows a lot further, besides doing this work through small work or some form there, also the great role of volunteerism, which I think is an important issue. I think there's still time to think about it. I must say that I do not have a particularly well-designed position myself, but I think there is still room at the time when the law will go through all the procedures for these matters to be settled. Once again, let me cut back and hold this debate. I estimate that this law is going in this direction, because it allows on the one hand greater competitiveness of the individual in the labour market, including as far as the economy is concerned, I think that some of the deviant employment opportunities are withdrawing. At this first stage, I will support this marriage. I think, however, that we will really have to listen to each other in this dialogue and also hear each other. I am afraid that the dialogue in which someone takes a firm position that he does not want to talk about avoiding dialogue, that in this case, at some point, we will also have to take what step, even if there is no 100% consensus. I estimate that it is a step in the right direction and therefore, once again, my support for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u61	Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Milenka Ziherl. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He's not here.]] The flower of Zalokar Orzam. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! I must say that, at first, I did not even think about whether I would discuss this subject, but all the discussions I have heard so far and the matter itself still requires a word. There has been too much talk so far about how certain models that we see in Germany and so forth are also the basis for this arrangement. I think it is as everyone has determined, this student work and a little work to some of the refugees we have in Slovenia. And that is why it is right that we do this without comparing it with some other models that will never last in our country. And this has been shown in the transposition of any existing legislation. I think that it is necessary to agree here that the regulation so far has in some way also meant the sufficient flexibility of our labour market, despite the stiffness we have in administrative work, this student work has nevertheless meant a competitive advantage for the economy. In any case, the student services were somehow able to follow the needs of the small and larger economy in a very agile manner. There were also certain derogations, certain anomalies, which were also the reason for thinking that this area would somehow be improved, corrected. However, in my opinion, we went about this the same way as if we were building a house, but we found that one window of a little rope was standing, and then we would find that we even had to tear down the house in order to settle this window, rather than just settle it. I have a feeling we're interfering with this law in too wide an area with too little thought. Some in front of me talked about how we would arrange for the work done by students, pensioners, and the unemployed. I don't think that's gonna hold. See, the unemployed are mostly from those sectors where the added value is relatively low, where by now, when they were employed, they have received perhaps two to three euros for their own, I would say, salary. Also, wages in this sector are low and I doubt that any employer will drag these unemployed through this instrument if he is obliged to give four hours of net to someone, because even those who have an employee do not pay them at such an amount. So that some of the restrictions we impose on this law will not increase the competitiveness of this labour market, I am sure. There was a lot of talk about the abuse of student work. However, the law so far has allowed this control to be allowed to be sanctioned. It also speaks of the need for a new information system to ensure transparency, transparency and control. This is again misleading, because such systems exist, until two years ago, these cross-examinations have been carried out and it has been possible to identify virtually all the data that is needed, and in this law we provide again a new information system, as if we did not already have it in this country, I would say, too, and therefore we also have so ineffective. It has to be realized that, I don't know if you all know it, but at this point, let's say, it's just 700 students in the Clinical Center. There are 15,000 students in the public administration. In public administration, it is also said in ministries, including offices, also in institutions that are being re-established. I don't think there's gonna be any clear-up here that we'd like to handle. Similarly, the parallel scholarship scheme is not so far prepared to provide any compensation for this student’s work. However, I was most disturbed by the fact that this law does not provide for certain exceptions which, due to certain seasonalities, especially during the summer tourist season, would be granted to those small entrepreneurs who carry out these activities during the winter tourist season. And that at a time when students perform their exams and can work more intensively in sectors that are connected precisely to the fact that they are seasonally needed, and then there is also a larger number of these student guides and everything. And the third problem I see is the way this law introduces into implementation, which actually increases the costs of these procedures and complicates the whole matter. And the more we write complicated things, the more it's possible to play. This is probably what we all feel good about, because the things we see in this law, where we are referring to a lot of the limitations that an official is supposed to oversee during the course of the proceedings, I think they will lead to bigger acts, not to simplification and improvement of this system. I must say, this law doesn't convince me. Otherwise, I am aware of the need to make some changes in this area, but I think they are too confusing in this case, so that I can support them at this point in time. I don't think they bring what the ministry wants, what we want, that this part of our commitment, is a little bit of work in all segments, improved in order to improve control, transparency and everything else. I don't see all these values in this law. Some of the old ones are good, but most things are still unfinished. Above all, I am disturbed by the increased red tape of these procedures, which will lead to more problems, especially for the economy and also for those who will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! At this meeting of the National Assembly, we have once again a very busy set of laws that are not harmonised, as we see from the debate, nor within the coalition, much less with the social partners. In addition, the Act on Labour Relations, the Health Activity Act and this in fact shows what the approach is, what the way this coalition works in this mandate. The fact that they come to the National Assembly of Laws that are not harmonised is actually a folklore, the way that this coalition works. It's a folklore thing. Here again, I must stress that we cannot agree with such an approach to work, regardless of the very important content, on very important areas in which we even agree with solutions in a variety of parts. However, the approach that you have put so much emphasis on is in fact quite different from what was expected and was forecast at all events in the previous and also at the beginning of this mandate. I think that this approach, which is diametrically deviated from those solutions that have been told, is not right. The second thing is, in this case, I would expect to have some analysis on the table of the effects of all these things that come to the table, which govern each area. In fact, I am interested in the way and for how much time will be spent on the basis of this law, a study that has been exposed so many times as one of the problems. It's a problem. However, the restrictions introduced by this law should then also be reflected in the analysis in the length of the study and there should probably be some analysis. I would also expect them to explain to us exactly what or how this affects the economic work of companies. These two analyses, which are actually the basis for the drafting of this law, are not before us here. The other problem with this law is that it greatly increases bureaucracy. To bring back additional forms, additional forms, papers, but from everyday practice we know that this is not actually the right approach. We have in Dolenjska and perhaps even a handful of wild barracks. There are many people living there who receive social transfers and are also in line outside the municipal gates, but all these people or many of these people drive with better cars than their mayor. In fact, I am interested in how the Government is willing to regulate this form of small work, that someone who acquires social transfers, child allowances, unemployment benefits, lives in a better situation, in a better situation than those who are regularly employed, without all of them paying any public services. I think we should pay a lot of attention to these forms of small work as well. The priorities that we are addressing in the National Assembly are also a problem. We are now doing a lot of work here, where we will probably also have some small savings, and we are completely leaving behind a lot of work, regular work, completely leaving behind companies that require their workers to work more than is allowed, in the form of overtime, so that companies do not pay their obligations or contributions, that many of these things are unrecovered, etc. That's probably where the basic savings are. And if I recall correctly, a few years ago, there were these collateral obligations, if we call them, extremely large. It's a big deal. And in view of the situation, these obligations also arise. I believe that there will be no significant effects on the payment of pensions, in the health register by regulating the small labour market, because these matters will certainly need to be settled. Significantly bigger things would have happened if we had arranged for the payment of the regular system and the regular work. And it's obvious here that, in fact, these discriminations still remain. I agree, however, that student work, small work, including other forms of small work, should be regulated, that these relations between concessions, the division of concessions, because it is obvious that some segments receive too much of the concession fees and the resources they have at their disposal are not spent deliberately on what they were intended for, but are used primarily for luxury, so it is said that different things are procured from these funds. And it is obvious that, above all, there is a conflict between organisations that participate in these funds, solely because of who will get more and who will get more of this luxury. I agree that this division of the concession fee needs to be regulated in much the same way as proposed in the law. In fact, funds are earmarked for those activities for which they are intended, not for the purchase of various companies, which then operate by bypass, not for the purchase of different yachts and boats, not for the sponsorship of different concerts and similar matters. I would also like to re-examine the fact that substantially more concession fees are intended primarily for the construction of student homes. Because we can do more to help students, such as students' homes and cheap student beds, in fact we cannot, especially those who come from a remote environment, from the periphery, because these are, in fact, because of the general situation, the general relationship between centres and the periphery, the most striking. And such a step would also be necessary [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u65	Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Does the motioner want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u66	Your Honor! Once again, I am talking about the debate that has been going on so far to clarify some of the things that have now been opened and also give some additional information. You're wondering about calculations, evaluations and so on. We saw these studies and also cited them in the introduction, in the entire text of the law quite something. So if you read this text carefully, you will be able to track them. There are also references, and if you follow the references, you get to the original texts. Through this study and data you can also see a partial answer to the question of what the scope of student work means today, with regard to possible employment. It is estimated that this work is for about 30,000 regular jobs. The number of unemployed young people today is 14,000. And I believe that through the regulation we are proposing, some of these jobs, or some of this work, will also be transformed into regular jobs. Despite the fact that the scope of the student work is then declining, we do not have to be particularly sorry for this in terms of the whole. Let me mention another piece of data. Pensioners perform about €70 million of work at the annual level according to the Ministry of Finance. And if we were to translate it into regular jobs, there would be about 10,000 of them if we used the same factor. So a lot of this work is going through these forms today. And if it is not offered in the form of a small work forward, it will then be offered in the form of regular work. Of course, in a certain case, this flow can also be reversed in the opposite direction. The question of how much public cash would be obtained if we stayed at the same scale as we took as the basis of these estimates would generate some EUR 53 million at the annual level, which is for the pension fund, for example, little, for the health care sector, but not insignificant in times when we are looking everywhere for funds to finance the public programmes financed by these cash registers. You have raised the issue and have also stressed that the proposal of this law is going in the direction of reducing work in black. We believe that its effect will be such, of course not entirely. We do not promise to solve this problem in its entirety, but in part certainly. In doing so, let me say that we are opening the law on prevention of employment and black work in the autumn, we will prepare it, and all the initiatives you are giving are welcome. I should also like to add that the law itself, as already stated, provides for monitoring and evaluation, so that, on the basis of the information we are about to receive, we can also adjust the individual provisions accordingly if this proves necessary if certain undesirable consequences are identified. The opening of the social status of the students is in place, in the foreground, and we have too, and I think this is a real discussion. Once again, the law governing state scholarships will enter into force six months before it enters into force or the Small Work Act will apply, so that there will be no difficulty in obtaining a state grant to all those who will be excused. All the other things that are now cited and circulated are simply misleading yourself or the public, however you want to take it. Of course, it should be borne in mind that in addition to state scholarships, Zois' scholarships for students are available today, that there are also human resources scholarships, which are thousands of unshared, because there is no interest in them, because not everyone would study where the needs are greater, but nothing. We do not complain about students, but I must say that there are many of these opportunities that the state offers to support studies in this way are untapped. In preparation there is also a scholarship law, which will fully regulate all scholarships, will be presented to the public just before we can complete the procedure for monitoring this law, at least I hope that there will be no backlogs. We also cooperate as we wanted in the small work, with the Student Organisation at this point, and I think that everything we have missed can be incorporated into this grant law. Also incentives for faster completion of studies, such as those mentioned above, are a talk. This proposal is on the table, and I think it's welcome. However, when it comes to the social situation of students, I would like to add this. It should be borne in mind that students receive all the subsidised food they can get over these scholarships, which amounts to a good EUR 50 per month, so that those who reach apartments or private apartments through the contract receive a subsidy here as well. I think there's not enough of these and there's more to be done. That's what we're aware of. And that we do not often take into account the tax benefits that parents have at the expense of studying youths. In a way, it is also a contribution of the country, if you want, or a community, our joint contribution to making it easier for the individual who chooses to study. The question was raised as to how, then, in accessing the grant, taking into account the material situation would affect, in particular, the property. I think that in the law on eligibility from public funds this is well enough to take into account not only the size of the property, but also its real value, which varies according to location. In Prekmurje the house is the same size as in Ljubljana, but they are probably in a 1:10 ratio or something like that, or even more, and this will all be taken into account when assessing the potential income such a property, if it exceeds a certain standard, can be given. It is said that the property will not be taken into account as such, but rather the potential value it can give in the case of renting or renting or something like that. This will be taken into account in this system with a sufficient feeling. The age and image of parameters that, of course, affect this will also be taken into account. As for the administration you've highlighted. Here we are with such very interesting dilemmas, which are pleasant to point out, a little more difficult to solve. Too much control, too much control, too much administration, no administration – we all know that we need to find the right measure here – including too much burden due to work, due to employers or too little, due to public treasury. That's where you need to find the middle way. When we talked to the unions and employers about these issues, I must say that, of course, everyone here usually stood on their side, everyone had their own interest and, of course, they didn't know how to harmonise it on their own. This dialogue, which you refer to at this point, also requires an intervention. The proposal for a compromise solution does not come from itself when interests are divergent. And just when it comes to allowing the full liberal use of small work, unlimited, or replacing it, as we have, of course, best shown. And these dilemmas, of course, will certainly open up in the next debate. Central registry. As it is said, it is not introduced in order to have more administrations, but so that, through the central register on-line, every time it decides to get a travel agent, it can be signed at the same time with this interested person who would do a little work and then verify it. Of course, we can consider whether any step is even less necessary in this process, but the issue of adequate control over employment in this way also needs to be addressed. The German model, we have already confirmed, is different, is significantly different when it comes to the situation of those doing small jobs. But it would be unwise if we didn't look at how it works, so we wouldn't rather learn from their mistakes than our own. With regard to seasonal works and the image that will now be difficult to do through a little work due to these constraints, let me stress again, we also have a fixed-term job. For three months he often employs for a certain period of time where interest is concerned. And if the interest of trade unions is that these jobs are not reclassified to small jobs, then I think that this should be supported, that part of this small work is offered to those who exclusively use this work, but offer it in this form. I think this is mainly for the benefit of the workers who are looking for it. I've already commented on the questions of analysis. So they're in the text and in the documentation. But it is true that we do not know how to predict all the detailed consequences of this institute, as no one can possibly predict. "If he were a witch, he wouldn't be a poor man," they used to say. But if we knew that the crisis would come as it is, we would probably be able to regulate it differently than we did in the past and so on. In short, there are certain things that we need to monitor and then react to. I would also say that we have always been open to social dialogue, that we have also had discussions on this law on the Economic and Social Council. Of course, there have also been delays in these discussions, including the fact that individual partners at a certain point did not want to discuss this law. The unions have also acted this way, perhaps because they have been in solidarity with students, but we are still open to this dialogue and proposals for further action regardless of this experience, except when it comes to the issue of ultimate demands. You're just trying not to have a dialogue. Finally, I would like to thank all the debaters today for the constructive debate, the proposals. We will also examine you, and I believe that the text you have today could be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u67	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Four. A moment to tell you how much time you'll have. Each debater has 4 minutes 47. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u68	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we have had such a serious marriage for a long time with concrete content, even a critical debate, but despite talking about how to solve a serious problem, a serious issue of small work in Slovenia. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State, because we do not always have, and in all the laws of the National Assembly, the opportunity to hear professional arguments and answers to, I can say, practically all open questions, whether we fully agree with the answers or not. I will personally support the marriage, and I think it's good, regardless of whether it raises any other questions. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say, with my satisfaction at the content of the debate, that I still do not understand that, even in such serious matters as the Small Work Act and some others, there is an expression that the objectivity of some opposition parties who say that there is no attempt to find a common solution, that there is no social partnership to abuse the agreements and policies that we have formulated when the coalition parties adopt this government. This is simply not true and I would ask you to count on this government to have so many tasks, it can also give itself too many tasks, and at the same time there are so many discussions on extremely difficult issues on so many fronts, but on top of that it is a lot of material constraints that require extremely hard work. I'm not going to say that I'm always satisfied with the fact that sometimes I also feel that the first hand is set then the content. I think that the content is most important to us, but sometimes we count that we will be able to solve all the problems for the next two or three generations, but to say that we do not have the extremely difficult and difficult issues that this government has to solve at the same time almost, to say not only with opposition, not only with unions, but also with many other social groups, and also with employers, in areas that are vulnerable to all of us, in order to be right and right, to try without wanting to make problems worse, to encourage further cooperation between all the stakeholders and the social partners in order to achieve a solution. I, in cooperation with our government and with Minister Svetlik, can ensure that the readiness to find ever-new solutions and continue to negotiate exists today. Even when we have certain laws already in the National Assembly, some of the coalition's conscious dates are open so that further coordination may be achieved and a solution found that would be satisfactory for all. And that is true, we will also have concrete evidence in this session. You are well aware that we have decided to resolve the labour law on the other hand, because we have some issues that we simply did not know at that time, and we want to resolve them first in agreement, preferably with the social partners, and later in the emergency process, we want to adopt them. That we have decided that the Law on Health Activities for Coalition is not yet mature enough to allow us to decide on it. And it could also be listed, so please let us try and help to achieve coordination in these difficult situations, be critical of content rather than apologically put into a position, "someone is, but someone is not ready to find the best solutions".
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u69	Mr. Vito Rozej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present! It is certain that this country is in its twenty-year history for certain segments of the population – and this certainly applies to students – and has taken care of them more and more, I can say, things are moving for the better. Initially, these concerns were less, and she prefers to leave this category of her citizens to take care of their own problems as much as possible in the way it is with the student work. The economy only helped, it needed this kind of labor, and things got to where they came from. What young generations have and other generations have nothing but freedom to sell their work and energy. He's got a little experience, he's got no knowledge, he doesn't have property. So, the job is what they can exploit, and the freedom to do it the way they want it, is the only thing that gives it some security, because it doesn't yet have time to create it. Therefore, it is necessary to work very carefully with this freedom and not to limit it too much, because if not, it is likely that this generation that can and can do so will sell this work elsewhere and this knowledge too. I'm not saying that the concern expressed through student diet and anything else, the increased scholarship, is negligible. Far from this, however, it is necessary to know why this is allowed to the student population, in narrations, because it is expected to contribute much more to the regular work process after completion of the study than to their peers who will not receive the study. Our country does not know the Institute of Social Cards in health and social insurance, it collects from those who are capable, everything that is possible. As my colleague Magajna described in a graphic way, "it is necessary to grow a horse that is already running well" because it will achieve something else, but those who have not at first will have nothing of all. So it is also too much to expect that the generation from which so much is expected, with some, conditionally speaking, will be satisfied with charity. Perhaps even for the pigs we ask for slaughter, we cannot say that they eat poorly, eat very well, but only their purpose is obvious, and there is no serious prospect. And I think this would be the case, and today's debate has also gone in this direction in part, so that this issue should be enlightened from a broader perspective than simply from the fact that it is, conditionally said, an anomaly in the labour market, that there are such and different distortions here. I would like to believe that the assumption that the introduction of a small part will help to create more regular employment, I would like to believe that it will reduce work in black, but I find it difficult to believe that this will be the case. The economy or capital, if you want, will always find ways for what it takes to get it at the lowest possible price, which can happen to us, as I have already said, that this work, which is now declared as work, will begin to be sold in the form of capital through such and different forms of entrepreneurship – independent and which other, and that the final goal in the labour market will not be so different. If there's an anomaly in the labor market, it's black work. Black work is about 10 times as much as the current size of small work in our country, and that's what we should be worried about in the first place. If the intervention of these works can indeed take place at a non-profit level, as it is said, I am in favour, but we must have experience in our heads, including the current interventions from work, not these temporary works, but all other regular jobs for a certain period of time and so on, if you want all other agencies. The commission that you, say, pay with a credit card in a shopping mall costs this seller 4% to pull your card through the terminal. That'll cost 4%. If the ministry thinks that intervention costs half as much as it costs, then one terribly good card will have to be figured out, which will really make all this possible. I have too many doubts for once, not for the purposes of this law, but in the way that he did this performance so that he could support it at first reading. However, I am convinced that if this experiment fails, there will be a better and more acceptable way to solve this problem at our tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u71	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. In the debate or when the minister called, he gave us some information that we could already have in the explanation of the law or I miss, above all, that we do not have the data, most of the conversation is about students, there is no evidence of how many pensioners who can already work under business contracts work. You said that before, but there is no such thing, nor is there any amount of these profits or percentages of this work. And it would certainly be one of the much more useful data than the many things we have inside. And what we said at the outset is that we believe that each category can be regulated in its own way, we still insist on this, or the area of the unemployed could be regulated in the labour market regulation law, while for students we would maintain the law we have now, it would be sharpened in those segments where we estimate that it is poorly implemented. I will say again that I think that steps have been taken also in the field of limitations and abuses in the field of student work in the past and should continue to do so. Finally, this is illustrated by the published analysis submitted by the Ministry in explanation of the law, when, in fact, the number of concessionaires decreases from 2002 onwards, according to student services as well as some periods of earnings or revenues and the number of allowances issued. All of these things have happened because on certain things, on certain segments of legislation, the legislation has increased and it has been, or we have managed to get in trouble, also significantly reduce the lending of travel or commissioning if you give the customer that you have 10% of this work, including the one who gave the guide. And we think that in this sense we should continue and really do more on the single record of the entry, that we have this data, that we might also increase the conditions for how you get to student status, because now that's a good thing, you have vouchers, a lot of other benefits. However, when the minister said that where there is seasonal work or where students are working now for three months, they could also work for a fixed period of three months, that is true, but with this the student loses status and some other things, and therefore probably expect them to become employed in three months, and then this status changes, probably not too real. One more time about scholarships. All the time, or it has been heard that we have changed the law in the previous term, or even the first time we have written a law on scholarships, and then fewer scholarships have been granted. There's a lot of things that need to be taken into account. At that time, we were very serious about introducing provinces in Slovenia to form regional centres that would be interested in keeping the educated staff there and also from this title of the regional schemes, and this did not happen, so just to say that something was not done then is not the best place, but to say that there will certainly be more scholarships in the future, and the Minister himself says that he cannot know exactly what will bring about the changes to other social legislation and whether, in the end, the scholarships will really be more, if all that is expected, we will also take into account when establishing censorship. In addition, the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs could be appropriate. I am interested in how they assess what this will mean for the economy, these changes. And regardless of all the jobs that companies are going to have to do, there's a lot more to it than this moment, and that's probably why they're going to be doing less of a job than they are. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] will and that all that has been going on at student services will be carried on to a little bit of work. We're still here. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u73	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, first of all congratulations to you for coming with this important law to the National Assembly, where we will work together to move it forward and implement it as soon as possible. It is precisely because we can implement it as best as possible that I have five comments on the whole proposal, on the whole concept, which, after all, is also the meaning of general consideration, where we are trying to determine whether it is the right basis and at the same time to draw out what is at least good to reconsider. I'll start with a little job for the unemployed. If, on the one hand, we set certain limits on how many unemployed people can access this form of small work, as well as others who will be able to do small work, I still have the fear that this will not be just a new form of social dumping in the case of the unemployed, because instead of a small job, they will be able to provide the minimum of survival with low social contributions and will never be fully stimulated to achieve their jobs. I think that I have heard correctly from your mouth that I believe we are recording that in the case of unemployed people, employment is increasing just when the social benefits are somehow cut short. And I'm afraid that maybe a little work would be an additional lack of stimulation for finding a job, because, in fact, they will have some form of work already. Next, a time limit for small work by students. The amount you have proposed does exceed a very small number of students. However, I wonder if the student is willing to work and if the employer is willing to do his job, under orders, that is to say that the person who takes him into a small job is willing to pay, perhaps because he is a quality student, is doing his job well, but at the same time he does not want to work because he wants to maintain the status of a regular student, why he would not be able to do so. Of course, the issue of unfair competition, under quotations, opens up here in terms of very low labour costs for a student who does little work. Let's look here at the possibility that the time limit becomes a tax limit. Despite doubts about finances, we can see the possibility of charging a certain quota of small work at one rate, and we can charge a certain quota at a significantly higher level, comparable to regular employment, not simply saying to the student, "Listen, you can't work anymore, at least not for this year." Third, scholarships. Minister, you said the scholarships would be in place earlier. But on the part of the student organizations, we hear concerns. In fact, in the beginning it was said that the scholarships would be on January 1st, and now they had fled on September 1st 2011. And that, at least in my opinion, is one of those main conditions for us to confirm. So in order to confirm this law, we need to have clearly confirmed measures so that these scholarships are not only available, but that students can also access them. Because it doesn't help if we have 40,000 scholarships, and then we have such strict conditions that only 30,000 students can benefit from these scholarships. Fourth time, funding of student organisations. What happened here when there was too much money, we've seen it. It is true that the student organizations, thanks to you and thanks to this law, have moved to greater transparency. There will certainly be a reduction in this flat-rate work, but I would still like to check once again what is the quota, which is the right percentage for the student organisation to continue to operate. Finally, the issue of student services, which have proved to be effective. I agree that their income needs to be reduced, but at the same time they need to continue to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u75	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting’s time frame, tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — First draft of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Working Sizes, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 12 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first-signed Bojan Kontic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u76	Mr Vice President, Members and Members, once again a good day! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, which, in addition to amendments and additions related to the harmonisation of the provisions of Article 8(3) and Article 84 and Article 85 of the Labour Relations Act, requires the Constitutional Court, with a view to ensuring greater flexibility on the labour market, reduces the notices and reduces the amount of cancellations when the employment contract is cancelled. It is a matter of lowering the legal minimum of rights, without prejudice to the existing regulation of these rights in collective agreements, i.e. that social partners can always agree on a higher level of rights in collective agreements and that agreement is already in force in individual collective agreements. In the proposed regulation of minimum statutory cancellation periods, according to the requirements of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, number 158, on the termination of the employment relationship at the initiative of the employer, retains the differentiation of the notices according to the previous duration of the employer's employment. Taking into account the assessment of the international institutions, including the OECD, that there is a need to exceed the segmentation of the labour market and comparative representations of the length of terminations and the level of discharges in other comparable European countries, and in relation to the envisaged changes in unemployment compensation and the role of the Employment Service in the pre-trial procedure under the Labour Market Regulation proposal, the cancellation deadlines for the worker from more than 15 and more than 25 years of working time from 75 to 60 and 150 to 90 days should therefore be reduced by one fifth of the basis for each year of working with the employer. In the event of cancellation by the worker, the period of one month’s notice and the possibility that the contract of employment or collective agreement may be agreed on for a longer notice, which may not exceed 150 days or be longer than 3 months, as opposed to the current arrangements. The shortening of notices should therefore also be seen in the light of the increase in monetary compensation and the extension of their time of receipt and the preventive functioning of the Employment Office, which is regulated by another law and which has been agreed between social partners in the previous period. The preliminary decision of Article 9 of the law, which we propose, provides for a gradual reduction of the discharges to one-fifth of the worker's basic average salary in the last three months prior to cancellation for a year of work. This uniform measure of retirement, one-fifth of the basic average wage, we think is justified, given that we want to treat all the age categories of workers the same way or we want to base this on the fact that a 10-year job in this sense is worth the work that someone does, for example, 30 years. The reduction of discharges is therefore to be effected in accordance with this proposal after one year of this Act. We agree, however, that this deadline should be extended by drawing as close as possible to the start of the retirement fund, which, in agreement with the social partners, we want to establish as soon as possible on the basis of a law that will be prepared by the end of this year. And in this respect, we will be able to supplement this in the further preparation of this law. Since the question of re-employment of workers from the parent to the subsidiary company has increased since the drafting of this law in the interim, with a view to reducing the rights of workers and destroying companies, we also agree to withdraw the law or reject it in order to make it more favourable for the worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u77	Havela beautiful. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! Amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act will, in the first place, make it possible to implement the Constitutional Court decision concerning the right of workers working in companies where there is no union. Following the current law, the participation of workers in regulating their rights is possible only if they are unionised. The Constitutional Court therefore found that the Labour Relations Act is incompatible with the principle of equality before the law provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it places workers and their rights in different situations for no reasonable reason. Thus, the Constitutional Court has set a period of nine months for the elimination of non-compliance, similar to when an employee, in case of regular or extraordinary termination of an employment contract, requires that the trade union which continues its proceedings in its interest to protect its rights be notified in writing. Even in this case, workers who are not unionised are in a worse position than workers who are members of the union. This non-compliance must also be regulated by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Amendments and amendments to the law now correct this and regulate it in accordance with the Constitution. In connection with market regulation, the proposed law or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also touched the deadlines and the level of discharges as a measure to achieve greater flexibility of employment as one of the measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy. It was estimated that the arrangements for minimum cancellation periods and discharges, which otherwise meet international requirements compared to those in other European countries, are quite high, as employers have also pointed out. Both the length of cancellation deadlines and the amount of discharges are expected to affect the rigidity of the Slovenian labour market. As a result of stiffness, many jobs that employers would like to maintain may also be at risk. The proposed amendment therefore proposes to shorten the cancellation deadlines for workers who have a shorter working life, and also to equalise the amounts of cancellations regardless of the length of working hours. In this part, the amendment of the Law on Labour Relations in the LDS Club is understood as working legislation in relation to the envisaged solutions to labour market legislation, including the Labour Market Regulation Act, the Small Work Act and the Minimum Wage Act. With the above amendments to the labour market adaptation and legislation, the proposaler intervenes in the area of the concept of safe flexibility. In doing so, the LDS Club would like to make it clear that this is a very sensitive and important issue related to the realization of the social state on the one hand and the provision of conditions for the competitiveness of the economy on the other. In the LDS, we have always advocated such development guidelines that provide such jobs with a decent salary that will allow a decent life and social security for the individual. Therefore, we do not understand the need to give businesses more freedom in employment or dismissal and that contracts for indefinite periods of time are obsolete, but rather the flexibility to manage developmental changes in the lives of an individual and a flexible organisation that enables an effective response to new needs and skills in production. At the same time, security does not only mean preserving the job, but rather that people need to be given the skills and skills they need for their careers and help them find a new job, while providing adequate compensation in the event of unemployment, which facilitates transition. The rights of older workers are viewed comparatively with other countries in the European Union at a fairly high level. The amount of the deductions may represent a cost for the company which many firms are unable to pay in difficulty. Thus, despite the legislation, workers are left without a pension. For the greater safety of workers, we support in the LDS the direction of the establishment of a retirement fund, which should mean the safety of employees if the company was unable and could not pay out. The LDS Working Group closely monitors the views of the social partners of the interested public and follows international comparisons and wants to consider all opinions and dilemmas. For us, today's debate is an additional opportunity to discuss and explain different views. In the LDS, considerations are being made towards the creation of a fund for retirement and the gradual introduction of a shorter notice period and the reduction of discharges. In our view, it would be good if the issue of the creation of the Fund were identified before this law was enacted. Let us add that we expect intensive negotiations between employers and workers in the framework of labour legislation and that the country interferes with regulation only when this is really necessary. In the LDS, we want to place particular emphasis on sensitivity to social issues and that the country for the social security of citizens spends around €1.3 billion through various transfers. The Social Protection Benefits Act and the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds under consideration follow these objectives, and we therefore agree with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs that a step should be taken towards the safe flexibility of the labour market. There is a need for reflection in steps to equalise the labour market when we now have older workers on the one hand who have contracts for indefinite duration and greater security of employment, and on the other hand young people who receive fixed-term services and thus less protection of their jobs. However, the recent debate and warnings on business straws point to the need to amend legislation in a direction that prevents violations of labour law and prevents the payment of salaries and contributions to employees and the payment of emoluments. In part, we can resolve this by amending Article 73 of the Labour Relations Act, and it is therefore reasonable that the amendments to the Labour Relations Act before us are rejected and thus allowing the proposer to prepare, as soon as possible, an amendment to the law which would also include the amendments to Article 73, thereby preventing abuse. We also see this decision in the LDS as an opportunity to continue discussions between the social partners and to bring views on open issues closer to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u79	Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u80	Mr. Secretary, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I announced, on behalf of the coalition's parliamentary groups, that we would reject the Labour Relations Act in the announcement or decision-making of the agenda. In doing so, it should be stressed that we are not assessing that the law would not be a suitable basis for further consideration. However, we have found ourselves in difficulty when it is necessary to react very quickly to the situation we are witnessing to at this time. I'm talking about straw companies. Since this law, which is being dealt with on a regular basis, does not allow us to do so, we have decided to reject it today, allowing the Ministry or the Government, the proposer, to replace this law, which occupies a procedural space in Parliament, by a law which will also go into section 73 of the Labour Relations Act and allow us to remedy these irregularities that we are witnessing to them today. Of course that won't be enough. It will be necessary to go to the Company Act, and something will have to be done in the area of criminal sanctions, and it will be necessary to consider how proof of the intention to set up straw companies will need to be addressed as soon as possible. So this is also the reason why we will reject this bill, because if we adopted the proposal today, we would have a second and third reading in the autumn, which is too valuable a time lost to settle an area that we can regulate in Article 73, and in this law we cannot intervene in Article 73 at this point. That's the basic reason. Of course, we would also like to appeal to the proposer to try to move forward within the social dialogue on the fund for retirements, reduction of cancellation deadlines and reduction of the amounts of retirement. When we spoke to some representatives of some trade unions a while ago, they mentioned that some things were acceptable and that the reduction of cancellation deadlines was not even so problematic, as many things were happening within these cancellation deadlines with those leaving the company. However, there is a problem with the reduction of discharges in relation to the fund for discharges, which will need to be established. And it's a good thing that we're doing this on a very narrow time scale. When we are talking about discharges and the amount of discharges and cancellation deadlines, of course it is also important to note the problems that are present at this time, that is, the problems are not only with discharges but also with salaries. I've spent days with representatives of workers from one of the construction companies, and I'm not going to mention it, and I'm going to get information that people are simply getting payment sheets that are beautifully calculated, how much pay they should or should receive, and there is no pay. This, of course, also means that these people are still employed, but they are still without the means to support basic human survival. These are the problems we face, and therefore I say it will be very difficult to settle this only in this law and it will be necessary to cut into another area. However, we are obliged to do so, for in this area we can estimate that we are already in the stage, if we use a rough comparison, which is what slavery, where people work, does not get anything for it. They also come to the construction site 8 km on foot and work for one meal a day, which they receive from the employer and then return home again at night with no means of survival. So these are the anomalies that the inspection should also identify and to which we will have to react in the coming weeks, perhaps even within the amendment of certain legislation, which is, of course, a possibility, and the only option, Parliament. Of course, the government can do something different. At the same time, when people do not receive salaries for their work, the company simply calculates the withdrawals for their loans and the loans are not paid. And then they also experience a visit at home, when they simply want to confiscate, rob, and repay what they have given them because of this particular thing. So, these life stories that we are witnessing right now, because they are so cruel in certain cases, it will be necessary to act quickly and effectively to protect the rule of law. I know I've just left a bit of a topic that's on the agenda today, but it makes sense to point that out. We will therefore reject this bill in the Group of Social Democrats, not because we would estimate that it is not a suitable basis, but to allow certain anomalies to be removed within this law as soon as possible. It is logical, of course, that, given that I am predicting the rejection of this law or the vote against the conclusion that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration, that we will also reduce the debate in the Group of Social Democrats on this law, because it is actually pointless to consider and discuss a law that we will eventually reject. I therefore expect, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, to continue the dialogue, to seek the best solutions and to address the shortcomings I have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u81	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u82	What a lovely greeting to all present! Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments to the Labour Relations Act in two areas are proposed. The first area is to provide workers with the opportunity to participate through their representatives in the process of adopting a general act of employer setting out the rights which are otherwise subject to collective bargaining. In the existing law, this cooperation is only possible for workers organised in a trade union. Therefore, workers are in an unequal position before employers if they are not unionised. The Constitutional Court adopted a finding and fixed a period of nine months to remedy the irregularity. Prior to the removal of the established unconstitutionality, the employer must obtain the opinion of working representatives, such as the Council of Workers or employees, prior to the adoption of the general act, in the process of adopting the general act of the employer in cases where it does not have an organised union. The second area of amendment is the harmonisation of the length of notices and the level of discharges with internationally comparable European countries. The envisaged solutions in employment and unemployment insurance legislation are compared. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support, in particular, those measures that would contribute significantly to reducing and eliminating unemployment and raising the motivation of the unemployed to seek employment. In view of the need for more effective integration of the labour market and the economy, it is appropriate to consider transferring labour market powers to the Ministry of the Economy. These are primarily those powers that affect the creation of new jobs and negotiations with the social partners in ensuring a more flexible labour market. In the present case, the amendment of the law is a matter of shortening notice periods and reducing discharges. It is good to hear that this is about adapting to the European situation. But this is about reducing workers' rights. It is understandable, however, that the company could be in full danger if the cancellation deadlines were too long and the cancellations could have collected all the accumulation and the company would have failed, including that healthy part which could otherwise have been operating on a smaller scale and still be competitive on the market. We have heard about the drafting of the law on retirement funds, which is certainly commendable and will save a number of worse standing companies from collapse. However, it is an important dialogue or negotiation with the social partners, namely workers or trade unions as their representatives and employers and, of course, the ministry. Without minimum consent, the law cannot live satisfactorily. Therefore, we do not support this part of the amendment of the law in terms of shortening notices and reducing discharges. Social dialogue must continue. In view of the dismissal of employees through straw companies, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has made a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Labour, Family and Social Affairs on this subject. The meeting was called to eight. Seven. 2010 and was also very well visited by social partners, employers, trade unions, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy. Both coalition members and opposition Members have been quite united that this area, so to speak, should be governed by the Labour Relations Act and the Companies Act. We therefore propose that the Labour Relations Act be complemented accordingly. As I have already mentioned, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in this form does not support amendments to the Labour Relations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u83	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The new Act on Working Relations comes firstly from a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in the procedure for the examination of the initiative of the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises and Others by decision of 2009, found that the third paragraph of Article 8 was inconsistent with the principle of equality before the law as defined in Article 14 of the Constitution. As stated in this Decision, for no reasonable reason puts workers in employers where there is no organised union compared to those where this is the worst situation. Therefore, it ordered the National Assembly to abolish unconstitutionality within 9 months and, until that time, employers must obtain the opinion of working representatives before adopting the general act of employer referred to in the third paragraph of Article 8 in cases where they do not have an organised union. The following amendment follows a decision of the Constitutional Court and provides for the role of the trade union, including a new employee, in the event of the planned regular or extraordinary termination of the employment contract. In this case, too, the Constitutional Court has set a 9-month deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitution. However, in cases where an employee who is not a member of a trade union is subject to proceedings under Articles 84 and 85, a finding of unconstitutionality shall be abolished. In this process, the Council of Workers or the Labour Commissioner shall have the same powers as the Trade Union. In the Truth Group, we are convinced that the amended provisions should be supported in the light of the protection of workers' rights, regardless of the fact that they have already been protected by the Constitutional Court in their decision. But according to the contents of the whole novel, we are skeptical. In addition to the relevant amendments, the government has also introduced amended provisions on cancellation periods, on the amount of cancellations that would belong to individual workers when the employment relationship is cancelled. In the light of the increasing abuse of labour law, we are somewhat surprised by the decision of the competent ministry to approach changes only under these provisions. Last week, at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we discussed the issue of the dismissal of workers through so-called straw companies or employers of take-overs. And the restriction, as set out in Article 73, states that the rights and obligations set out in the collective agreement binding on the employer of the transferor must be guaranteed by the employer to workers for at least one year unless the collective agreement expires before the expiry of one year or if a new collective agreement is concluded before the expiry of one year. And it is this period of one year that employers take advantage of, and the workers remain completely unprotected. We ourselves have heard many tragic stories today, more than ever, when we presented our opinions. We can also ask ourselves how individual unions do their work in these cases, since only alerting them to existing anomalies does not follow their basic mission. It would also be interesting to learn how other competent institutions, i.e. the Labour Inspectorate, the Prosecutor's Office and, last but not least, how many legally convicted employers have acted in similar cases for reckless infringement of Slovenian legislation in the economic and labour field. As far as I know, there is only one case so far, and of course we all agree that the violation is much more. In the Member Group, we have therefore proposed a new policy – in this context, the relevant decision has also been adopted on the Committee – to amend the existing Article 73 in order to protect workers, in the direction that the employer would undertake at least three years to secure the rights and obligations of the collective agreement. While we are aware that this is not the only solution, it is absolutely necessary under this law. In relation to this issue, there is no doubt that legislation should be amended in several areas, the economy has already been mentioned and also in the context of public procurement. It would be interesting to see how many straw companies would be set up in cases where, in addition to the employer of the acquirer, the employer would also be responsible for providing rights and obligations under the collective agreement for a limited minimum period of time. That number would certainly decrease dramatically. At the same time, we are also reminded of how it is possible in our country that those who exhaust businesses and who are later established as mushrooms in the rain may today participate in public and other calls, irrespective of their moral attitude. For moral responsibility is the one which Slovenian economic space unfortunately knows little, if any. Sometimes we can get the feeling that economic operators protect each other and compete in the number of abuses of Slovenian legislation. In the Parliamentary Group, we therefore ask ourselves whether Slovenian space is capable of absorbing European legislation that we are trying to follow, whether Slovenian employers are able to assume the moral responsibility that comes at a time when a number of survival depends on it. Unfortunately, this is not the only thing we can attach. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will not support the proposed legislative amendment. However, we expect the competent ministry to prepare a new novel in autumn to prevent abuse in the workplace as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u85	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All right, everybody, welcome back! Given that the coalition agreement is, according to today's forecasts in the opinions of the parliamentary groups, that the law falls and that the Government prepares another complementary text proposal, I will briefly add only a few basic thoughts on the proposed amendments to the law, and more, of course, after we have a new or complementary proposal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that the proposal for a law is complemented by provisions to prevent employers from faking the establishment of straw companies and through them the employment and dismissal of workers, as long as this is indeed the reason for the postponement of treatment. However, we have also maintained the same opinion in all social and labour legislation, which is on the agenda. It is a pity that we do not find reasonable solutions in a patient social dialogue that would be acceptable to both workers and employers. Speeding and overtaking only causes the unwillingness of the social partners to talk. Force them to block, insist on positions. I only hope that it is not only the precautionary nature of the coalition before the local elections, but it is probably better to wait and continue after local elections and to harmonise pension and health legislation with the whole package, as overheating the political climate does not contribute to good solutions. Because of the crisis, the government has a good opportunity to propose modern adaptations to this law to the market system, which would allow better conditions for workers, while also facilitating the position of employers, improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The draft law, which is not disputed for us on the agenda, is particularly in the work where it complies with the Constitutional Court's decision and regulates the possibility for workers to participate, even in cases where there is no union organised with the employer, in determining their rights through the participation of other workers' representatives, through the Council of Workers or through a worker's confidant. It is particularly important to ensure the protection of the rights of those workers who are not members of the trade union during the cancellation process, so we support the proposal in law that in this process the labour council or the employee should have the same powers as the trade union. However, the alignment of the length of the cancellation deadlines and the level of discharges cannot be easily supported. The effects of such changes, in our view, are not sufficiently known and well thought out. In order to reflect on the drafting of the new text, we are also proposing that the exemptions should not be taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u87	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u88	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to the Ministry representatives as well! The proposal for a new Law on working relationships in Articles 5 and 6 by shortening notices and reducing discharges from the point of view of older workers, those with 25 years or more of working age in the employer, has a drastic impact on the current regulation of these two labour institutes or workers' rights. As this is an infringement of the rights of older workers, in the DeSUS Group, we do not agree with the proposal for a amendment to the Labour Relations Act in this part. While we understand the need to adapt labour legislation to the existing labour market and to the current state of the economy, the proposed changes are seen as measures that go exclusively to the benefit of employers, greater flexibility of the labour market, which does not mean a secure flexibility for workers, especially older workers, who belong to a vulnerable group, as this group is more difficult to employ. From the point of view of DeSUS, the proposed regulation was too harsh for workers' rights, who, in terms of their best years in terms of efficiency, left the company with their knowledge, experience and loyalty to the employer to make a significant contribution to the company's well-being and consequently to capital growth. The shortening of cancellation periods from the current 150 to 90 days – i.e. from approximately 5 months to about 3 months – does not compensate for what is 25 years old and above given by the change in the duration of monetary compensation in the proposal for a labour market regulation law, since this period remains for workers who have not yet reached the age of 50 years – but the insurance period reaches 25 years and more – equal to the applicable regulation, i.e. 12 months. However, for those who have reached the age of 50 or 55 who are 25 years of age or older, the duration of receiving the refund increases by only 1 month, from 18 to 19 months, or from 24 to 25 months. It is true, however, that the time when the worker is on notice, both for him and for the employer, is extremely unapproachable and unappreciative, so the proposal in this part can be accepted. We have a particularly negative opinion in the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a new discharge regime, where again the category of older workers is the one that is the most disadvantaged compared to the other groups of workers, since for a round of workers with 25 years and more working hours in the same employer, the reduction of the retirement rate is 40%. In this regard, it is entirely inappropriate and unreasonable, according to our assessment, that the uniform amount of the duty for all workers who are employed by one employer for one year or more, irrespective of the duration of the job and thus independent of the individual’s contribution to the company according to the length of the working hours of the same employer. It is also clear that this reduction is not compensated in proportion to the proposal to increase monetary compensation under the labour market law, which provides for a higher amount of compensation than the current scheme, for only the first 3 months of unemployment and the proposed amount is now valid. We estimate that, given that fewer and fewer workers remain in companies – in relation to both the forgiveness and current state of unemployment and the increasing trend of flexibility, the flexibility of the labour market – which have a working life of more than 20 and 25 years in the same employer, it is not a threat to the company's competitiveness solely because of the dismissals for this group of workers. However, the fact is that they are taking what they themselves gave to the company in their half and more working hours and, accordingly, are reasonably expected to be adequately taken care of in the event of the employer’s termination of the employment contract. Even though both the regression and the 13th wages are becoming more or less slow in the past, the participation of workers in profit remains only a pious desire, we believe that the group of older workers should not be able to withdraw the current few euros, which, at the time of the loss of regular income, are not ultimately much help in overcoming the first financial distress they face in losing a long-term job in the fact that regular, earned and living the necessary and decent incomes will not be so soon enough. At the same time, it should be asked whether it is morally necessary to take such a worker into the company and at the same time invite him to become a small worker, after being unemployed and thus fulfilling the beneficiary’s condition under the new Small Work Act, even if the same company was unable to pay his pension. In the light of the whole problem, which has been a good time for both our workers and foreign workers, it is certainly more appropriate to hurl in terms of changes and additions to the rules by preventing all anomalies and acts of standards and obvious abuse of workers. Fragmented companies, non-payment of contributions, work through employment agencies, infringements of labour law, thus assessing infringements of labour law by the competent inspection body, is another story; these are all more important issues that we owe priority to. Until there is sufficient movement towards compliance with the existing rules and the Slovenian entrepreneurial capitalist culture will change, it is not acceptable to introduce greater job flexibility. In the DeSUS Group, we do not support this amendment to the Labour Relations Act. Members of the DeSUS will also give up the debate on the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u89	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The Labour Relations Act is one of the laws that affect the functioning of the labour market and whose changes and additions in accordance with the Slovenian exit strategy are also intended to contribute to strengthening the elements of safe flexibility in the labour market. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act should, by virtue of the principle of equality before the law, provide for the possibility of workers who are not unionally organised to participate, through the cooperation of other representatives of workers selected under a specific statutory procedure, in the process of adopting a general act of employer, establishing rights otherwise subject to collective bargaining. The amendments also seek to ensure the protection of the rights of all workers, irrespective of their membership in the union, also in the process of cancelling the employment contract. It is proposed to reduce the minimum statutory cancellation periods in cases of longer-term employment and to reduce the amount of cancellations in the event of cancellation of the employment contract by about 20%. Since systemic changes to the labour law require initial prior professional treatment and because of the conflicting interests of the social partners, it is a wise decision has been made to change the labour relationship law in several stages or as we hear it to be later. The first changes include the urgent harmonisation of the law due to the already-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and in relation to the amendments to the new labour market regulation law, which we will still process and where the right to compensation for unemployment is laid down, including the reduction of cancellation periods and the reduction in the amount of dismissals for workers who cease to be employed by the employer for business reasons. A solution is proposed to reduce retirements gradually, immediately by implementing the law on one fifth of the basis for each year’s work with the employer. If the worker is employed by the employer for more than one year to 15 years or on one quarter of the basis for each year of work with the employer, if he is employed by the employer for more than 15 years. Therefore, the reduction of dismissals on one fifth of the basis for each year’s work with the employer will only be useful after a proposal has been made, as has now been proposed. Today, we have three rather difficult laws to process, each regulating the labour market in its own way. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that each of these laws, due to the complexity and sensitivity of the subject under consideration, actually requires a longer time of coordination, of course, if we are to provide functional labour legislation that will last for at least a short time and ensure that the objectives of employment and unemployment insurance are achieved, as well as that the principles of equality before the law are ensured for all workers, including those who are not members of the Union, in order to achieve an appropriate alignment of the length of cancellation periods as well as the level of discharges with internationally comparable European countries. However, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the proposal is far from satisfactoryly coordinated with all the social partners, that it has gone a long way through trade unions and causes a great deal of satisfaction, we believe it is not suitable for further consideration, and we propose that the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, prepare it with more appropriate content and consistency. If Slovenia is to enter an economy and a knowledge society without major social losses blocking this transition or forces from within, it must, in particular, maintain a relatively high level of social consent and trust based on social security and equality between individual segments of the population, with social groups and with social partners. And right here is the decisive position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is declared to be leftist and liberal at the same time, and the course of events in recent years and the actual situation is showing more and more signs of the most brutal capitalism and neoliberalism, which has been seen more than 100 years ago in Western Europe, and today, civilised Europe, as it is said, has exceeded such a policy, but we are unfortunately several times witnessing to almost slave work of the third world and to this account the unlimited enrichment of a handful of modern post-transition rich people. So let's do it again. If you already swear on social democracy and a socially fair country, you will also have to resist the pressure of today's laws on our neo-capitalists, who, by blackmailing slave labor on the workers' shoulders, and you will have to establish an effective dialogue with all the affected social partners and, on this basis, draft legislation in accordance with European civil standards, standards and laws. I am so much more surprised and glad that our Parliament's largest group has also decided to prepare and participate in the drafting of a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. I should like to point out, in the light of the general debate without the desire to restrict it, that it has been reported that coalition parliamentary groups will vote against the bill tomorrow after the end of the debate so that the law can be reopened, including on issues that have not yet been settled in it. Excuse me? Well, then it's just an SD, but it's agreed within the coalition. Once again, I am not restricting this debate. If you want, we'll discuss it twice, but I think it's only right to point that out. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. If my memory has not left me completely, I think we have heard something similar about the need to face the new proposal of the law in September, from here too, Mr Minister. Although the leader of the Social Democrats Group has announced that we will hold our debate as we may or may not because we believe that there is room for adoption of some other provisions in the Labour Relations Act, I would like to say some things. The Labour Relations Act is commonly referred to as the Labour Constitution. I have witnessed and participated in the adoption of the Labour Relations Act, and I know how difficult and long-term coordination between the social partners has been, that we have been able to adopt the Labour Relations Act and that we have sometimes not been able to change any of the dictions we would like. For example, in Article 6, which is commonly referred to as the anti-discrimination article, how much energy had to be used to reverse the burden of proof of harassment in the workplace, and how much of such, purely minor frictions from the current work could be said. Therefore, with the current amendments to the Labour Relations Act on the one hand, I understand the bill's proposal that, on the one hand, while recognizing that certain things need to be changed in the Labour Relations Act, in order to take time to do so, I have decided on those more decisive or numerical interventions to the Labour Relations Act – and put them off for a later period. However, that he has concluded certain matters which are, in particular, linked to the decision of the Constitutional Court and some others, to settle now. It is therefore a shame, in fact, that everything that is coordinated between the social partners has been lost in this proposal, and in fact we have all focused only on what is not in the law. This is a reduction of workers' rights in the reduction of cancellation periods and in the reduction of dismissals. It cannot be denied that the scope of labour rights is narrowed. It cannot be denied that the Social Democrats have always drawn attention to the urgent respect for the European Social Charter. It is not possible to deny the whole range of things that we have warned about, but what is possible to defend this decision that we have taken in the Group of Social Democrats, but to say that it is precisely because of the recent failure to pay workers' salaries due to the inability of workers to protect straw companies that we need to react quickly. Therefore, I do not think that there can be any more effective way than now to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and in September, by means of an urgent procedure, the amendment to Article 73 can also be incorporated into the law. With this article, I would like to stress, in fact, that I do not see enough protection or a sufficient solution on my own if we only change Article 73, but that it is certainly necessary to cut into the company law, that even in criminal provisions, the penal code should be cut down and fines and sanctions imposed there, otherwise that those who violate this way of working rights will have to reconsider strongly whether they will seek loopholes in laws or not. And that we are actually close and that we feel similarly, I am strengthened by the debate at the urgent session that we have recently held. But I wanted to discuss this precisely because it is not possible to ignore the fact that representatives of the various segments of our society have different perspectives about the same problem. As it is said, I wanted to point out that only by amending the Labour Relations Act in 73 will we not solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will not debate, Bojan Kontič will not debate, Dr Pavel Gantar will not debate, Dejan Levanic will not debate, Breda Pecan will not debate, Matjaž Han will not, Victory Jelinčič The noble will not debate, Ivan Gril will not debate, Marian Križman will not debate, Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss, Franci Kek will not discuss, mag. Andrey Richter won't discuss it. Renata Brunskole won't discuss it. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And I will discuss it, and even though we do have this law, which I think is needed, somehow in brackets here today in treatment, it is, however, in favor of the Slovenian economy. It is true, however, that this affection is primarily expressed at the expense of workers and workers, which is wrong in itself. I think that in these weeks and months it would be necessary to think mainly in the direction of – and it seems to me that this would be much fairer, fairer and fair – in order to keep the severance payments unchanged so that the state will give up taxes, contributions and so on on on these severance payments. In this way, workers and workers would still get what is theirs, but for the company it would also be a lower cost and thus a significantly smaller problem. You know, it's for workers and workers and it's a social adjustment. It is intended for survival in search of a new job. I would not like this social adjustment, which has recently played a very important role, to be limited in any way. In this particular case, however, it is appropriate that the State also opposes this particular case, and at least by cancelling, or whatever I refer to it, the tax on these dismissals is against employers as well. So, let's leave our pensions as they are, withdraw our taxes, and we may also find some compromise within this social dialogue. As far as cancellations are concerned, I agree with the reduction myself. In fact, in the vast majority of cases, these hands do not play an important role, since workers and employers usually agree otherwise. Otherwise, it is best for both parties to complete the journey as soon as possible, rather than to drag on to a future and thus to establish a painful state on the one hand and on the other. As for straw companies, there is certainly great support here in the Slovenian People's Party. In fact, this has become one of the biggest carcrans of the Slovenian economy. The establishment of straw companies in order to ignore one way or another – I don't know what to call it – Slovenian legislation. This has especially been the case in construction. These examples, which we watch on television, have especially impressed me with the report: Whether we are creating slaves or something like that — this is not going anywhere! In short, what was happening and is still happening in Slovenian construction, especially with workers from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, is a disgrace to Slovenia. This is more embarrassing than anything else. That we have the face of inviting people to Slovenia to work here for us, our infrastructure facilities, and that then we are not able to pay those people what is theirs, and this is an unprecedented crime. I expect that within this amended law we will find appropriate answers to this and that we will, above all, be effective. It can't happen that the chief camera inspector repeatedly repeats that he has no jurisdiction and that he has no legal basis. What kind of inspector is that? This inspector, I believe, should have resigned from this job or should have been replaced a long time ago because he is incompetent. What's going on is really crime and shit. A man can't find words for these events. Let us also think seriously about how these things change at this inspectorate. It cannot be so as to say that nothing can be done; and because nothing can be done, it is just as it is. I cannot accept this logic, and I appeal to the Ministry, that you think seriously in this direction, too, so that something human resources change there. Because it can't be that way. Thus, in any case, support; as far as solving this problem of straw companies is concerned, I do not have a problem with cancellation deadlines, but as far as discharges are concerned, let us think about keeping them the way they are, but in the light of the economic burden, the State does not cancel taxes on these same exemptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. They will not debate: Mr Dusan Kumer, Bogdan Barovic, mag. Borut Saiovic, Janko Weber, Tadej Slapnik, Anton Kampush, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Miran Györek, Matevž Frangež, Marian Bezjak Here you are, Mr. Marian Bezjak – have I skipped you? Mr. Bezjak, you have the floor. Mr. Poebich, I don't understand what's wrong. Mr Bezjak, if you will have a word, I have released Mr Marijan Pojbič and he will get his word after you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, and the many Members and Members of Parliament who are here! You might say, finally, there's been a change in the labour law. It is true, it was commendable four years ago when the law on disabled companies changed, that healthy companies have healthy people and disabled companies have disabled people, and therefore healthy companies have to pay for the participation of disabled companies. That's very clever and very meaningful. Indeed, this law, which you have somehow prepared by the Government, has been made in a positive light, but I would like to stress quite a few shortcomings. It is right to reduce the length of cancellation periods, because these lengths were enormous if I may say that it is now reduced by 15 years of work from 75 to 60 days and from 25 years from 150 days to 90 days. You know who wants to work, who will always have a job, and which employer will want to have a good collective, good people, will never forgive people from his company. Good, positive climate is needed, and then there are no problems in any society. It is also true that there has been a reduction in the benefits, in fact for employees to one third of the last three months of average wages, the wages paid by the worker. For at this time these severance benefits were very great in this former law. Some companies that are already in crisis, believe me, if you want to put the company back in a good business, then you have to do something about people, even fire the workers. And that's when it started happening that businesses actually didn't have money for retirement. It is therefore salutable that the deductions have been reduced to one third. I also believe that it should be reduced or eliminated. For retirement is the part for an employee who actually gets into some kind of trouble, even older people who are harder to work than younger ones. I also do not agree with the adoption of this law in order to enter into force only one year from now. You know, this is too long a period from the adoption of the law to the entry into force of this law. But it's true that with the social partners, the unions, you almost didn't talk. That's another thing. It is therefore important that employment contracts change dramatically. We still know contracts for an indefinite period of time, as well as contracts of work and so on. They don't know that in other countries. No worker, no employee has to worry about the contract, whether he has it or not, if he knows he's doing well. Nor should any employer think about a contract to give or not to an employee if he knows that it is positive and that he thinks correctly. Therefore, it is necessary to know which workers are employed for a fixed period of time and then begin to take hospital leave. And so on. Then the employer has a lot of power. Mr Žerjav said earlier that the Inspector said there is nothing he can do about this situation. That's -- I don't know, a lie. Such an inspector, regrettably, does not have the authority to give him or does not see beyond the fence what people do on the other side of the fence. I also agree that Article 73 of the Labour Relations Act should be finalised. And I also agree with the Minister that he has temporarily stopped him, because in this article it is necessary to think carefully and to set the criteria for this so-called straw company. And in the company law, too. Because, a company, or an entrepreneur, or owner of this company, which registers five, six companies when it is established – you know that it is not serious. You know, he's already thinking about how to work on one company for a few months or a few years, then re-analysing things to another, and so on. The greatest evil is that then the company that does not know operates with this company that has a straw company will pay the penalty for that company that has a straw company. That's absurd. Of course, the tax collector collects the money that's on the table, not where he's supposed to stay and pick it up from the floor. This needs to be clearly written in the law and defined that they will not actually come to these machinations, these things in order to become either straw or imaginary companies, such as a large number of them in Slovenia. I also agree with the establishment of a fund for retirement, but this fund must set up each company for itself, for its company, and in no way can this fund be established in a comprehensive society, in the whole country, and that all companies will participate in this fund. What about those companies that will never get in trouble? Are they going to have to apply for state bureaucracy or for some social sector that is not concerned with this company?Oh, my God! That's not solidarity. You know, we live now in 2010 and not in the year "cardelism" or 1945. Let's think about 2010 and beyond! We also need to touch this. It would also absolutely be this principle that even at costs, it would pay to transport to work and lunch. And for this basis, contributions should be reduced. We all know that transportation to work and lunch is not taxed. But as a result of this, taxes should be reduced so that this will be included in the salary, because every employee is just speaking; I will say as an example; if the net salary is EUR 680, he says he only earned EUR 680. This does not include €210 for travel costs and €75 for lunch. And this is for the employer of 965 euros. That's the salary, that's the employer's payment. Don't forget that. Therefore, it is necessary to add to the law and to consider how. I believe it's hard to think or it's hard to go to this part of the law to be fair to everyone. But let the law be written in such a way that it will be the same in front of all that the most ordinary people, not just lawyers, can read it, and that people, employers and workers, will not think about the law that they must be, but that employers will think about their obligations and requirements, as well as workers - workers. Not that they start to think about what their demands are, but what their obligations are. This is about both sides: workers and employers. I therefore remind the Minister when preparing the law, in Article 73, to add and look after straw companies and to further understand in the following articles what employers' obligations are and what employees' obligations are. On the other hand, it is commendable that the minister has embarked on a remodeling of this marriage. I don't know why the SD party or the government coalition is afraid of that. You know, if it's in a year, then you'll be thinking about the election again. For what will not be done today, it will be too late at the end of the year. So be brave, Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u98	Dear Vice President. Unfortunately, I don't understand if there's a problem if I sign up for the debate or if you really missed me. I don't know exactly. You let me go twice and I didn't think it was normal because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u99	If you highly doubt this, I will tell you how improper you have treated me, but I prefer not because I want the meeting to go on normally. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u100	Okay. What you have just said that I have treated you incorrectly is certainly not true, Mr Vice President, but I just wanted to point out that, like every Member in this Parliament, I have the right to speak if I am on the list. Now let's go to the content. I must say, I am a little disappointed when I realized that what probably happened was what one of the Members and Members would expect. On the one hand, the Government introduces a certain law into the parliamentary procedure and, on the other hand, the parliamentary groups of this government reject this law at a meeting of the National Assembly. That's what happened today, and I must say I'm very surprised. But I'm not surprised at the reasons why this happened. It is very clear to all of us that coalition groups have found that they do not find the right consensus in this law, and here is the main issue of retirement, which is enshrined in this law, and they have not been aligned with the social partners. This time, the social partners have certainly shown what is necessary and urgent when they are questioned or disregarded their views on the solutions that touch them. And thank God that coalition parliamentary groups have identified and adopted this wise decision and will also reject this law at tomorrow's meeting, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this law is not prepared, is not well prepared, and is not so well prepared that it can also be supported in the National Assembly by non-competition. Among other things, I am very pleased that it is a coalition and that coalition parties have learned that the opposition in Parliament is not only to impose coalitions, but also very fruitful cooperation. And that's what turned out to be the withdrawal of this marriage. It was precisely the Slovenian Democratic Party that convened an urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and where one point was precisely addressing these issues related to the transfer of workers from parent companies to straw companies. At the meeting of that committee, we also asked the Slovenian Democratic Party to withdraw the law, which is now in the procedure, namely the Labour Relations Act.Today, many of the coalition Members and Members confirmed that it was one of the key reasons for this law to be removed from the agenda, including that this law must solve the issue in a comprehensive manner. Not only in individual segments, but not in steps, because there are too many problems in this area that urgently need to be addressed under this law. I must say, but I am pleased that this has come to be taken into account and that the Labour Relations Act will also include this issue, which is related to the dismissal of workers through straw companies. So I estimate that this solution is the right one, the right path is the right one, and when the law is ready for first reading, it will also then be put into parliamentary procedure. Many times, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and also the opposition have been warned that the Government comes with laws that are poorly prepared and poorly completed. That is exactly what has now been shown again, and it is precisely the opposition that draws attention to these matters, and this time, thank God, the coalition has also listened to this and will withdraw this law, which their government has proposed, from the parliamentary procedure. Of course, even if this marriage went through the first reading, I would not support it in any way. There are several reasons, including the very important reason for these dismissals. I do not agree with the fact that pensions are being reduced, I think that solutions need to be found, and there are a lot of possible other solutions for workers to get what is least of their own. I think the country has a lot of different, better solutions in hand than the one written to the detriment of employees. This is one of the important reasons why I personally would not support this law, even if I remained in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler will not discuss it, Mr Vito Rožej – no. Anton Kolarič – no. Dr. Luka Yuri – no. Willi Trophynik – no. Alenka Jeraj – no. Flowers of Zalokar Orazem – no. Mr. Jože Tanko? Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! Here we have again one of the laws that have come into the legislative process in a way that is not provided for in the coalition agreement and also in accordance with current practice. Indeed, the law is not in line with the economic social partners, it is not in line with the unions, and the Government has nevertheless put great differences in the way these matters are handled, and the law has nevertheless put the law into the legislative process. This is the way in which sensitive social relations are managed, this is how the regulation of the modernisation of the key systems of this country, such as the pension, then the employment area, including other areas, the health field and so on. And in all these matters, it is easy, if possible, to visit the social partners or those who are and must be involved in preparing solutions to this law. In fact, this meeting is an expression of this, because at least three laws are on the agenda for this meeting, which are not in line with the economic social partners they actively oppose, and all of these laws have been adopted and put into the legislative process by the Government despite the conduct. Not only the law before us, the Small Work Act, but also this Labour Relations Act and the Health Act, are those that do not have the necessary broad consensus, a broader consensus. We do not expect an absolute consensus here, but the laws are not even harmonised in these basic points, and it is necessary to criticise the Government that it hopes and thus wants to cut into sensitive social relations. It started with the 2010 budget, when the Government introduced the Law on Intervention Measures due to the economic crisis last September, even when it first introduced uncoordinated solutions in the budget, then it tried to coordinate this and the law, which, after an emergency procedure, replaced it, replaced it and then dealt with it. This bad practice is only continuing this year. It is only necessary to say here that the Labour Relations Act affects an extremely sensitive area, as with others, because in many of those who will be on the worst side, this is one very difficult situation, and it can also be an impossible situation, because job regeneration due to the general situation and also due to the accession of the Government is not sufficient. The number of people moving to work offices who are losing jobs is increasing more or less to us every day. At least 100,000 jobs were lost in this mandate. They did not all move to the office of work, a respected minister, but part of them was also across the border because they worked on the basis of work permits, and we do not run these lost jobs in our records in institutions and offices. Our economic policy and our economy have failed to regenerate and produce so many new jobs that at least globally we have managed to maintain the unemployment rate at the 2008 level, we have failed. This was also difficult to expect, because the government exit strategy or coalition exit strategy is a document that has 26 laws, 26 acts, and the first 10 laws are laws in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This also shows how the coalition was oriented and prepared to address the difficult economic and social situation, exclusively through social measures. Measures that would constitute restructuring that would give the economy an opportunity for small entrepreneurs to start new businesses are extremely few in this exit strategy. In fact, there is no such measure as to directly help create new businesses, new jobs, but there are many measures that allowed companies to reserve workers by waiting for work. And here is an approach that prevents Slovenia from quickly coming out of this economic crisis. That is why trends are more or less like those in countries of the European Union. When we look at the comparison in 2008 with 2010, in the European Union or in the euro area, we hardly find a country that is, according to the criteria, by indicators comparable, worse than our country. All of us moved until 2008 in roughly the same global macroeconomic situation, and we all moved around in approximately the same macroeconomic situation after 2008. However, as before 2008, after 2008, each country reacted in its own specific way, once to the situation that was good, and twice to the situation that was bad. And here we can see that, when the situation was good, the country found answers and provided incentives, including additional incentives for the economy, that we were developing faster, and that is significantly faster than the average of the European Union. After 2008, it is said, however, that the Government did not find any answers, it did not properly devise a solution to save for at least a smaller drop than the average of the European Union. That is why we have also significantly fallen on these performance scales, including for countries that have always been worse than us. This is said to be true, and the Eastern European countries that have entered the European Union are now more successful than our country in terms of indicators. Colleagues have already mentioned some of the problems related to certain poor solutions and accelerated in the labour market. They were talking about straw companies. However, I would like to point out that straw companies are one part of the problem that causes economic problems in the Republic of Slovenia and which, in some way, can also be said to be illegal, an untransparent way to forgive workers, so that we do not pay them anything to lose their dues to the pension, to the health insurance company and to any other matters – credits were mentioned earlier. And the other part of the problem is the mailboxes. However, postal collectors are those who allow abuse on the other hand, on the other hand, and through these mailboxes, property transformations are carried out, capital services are provided. These mailboxes can also greatly allow for the creation and exhaustion of straw companies. Both problems need to be discussed, and I think that both problems should also be solved simultaneously; thus, the problems of straw companies, in which many of us know them, some can perform even political functions in this country and in this mandate, and on the other hand also the creation, establishment of straw companies, where workers are forgiven. In this mandate, we even have a case where one of the companies boasted that it had concluded large transactions in Libya for more than a billion euros, a billion hundred million euros – and, as has been praised, with the government's spending aid – and, at the same time, through straw companies, 300 workers have been fired, through two straw companies. I wonder if such a situation is actually true, healthy, transparent. I think that deal for a billion and a hundred million euros is such that this company has not yet concluded it in the package. I believe that in one year this company has not yet concluded contracts; neither in the construction of the highway programme nor anywhere and has it forgiven. Now that a huge deal has been concluded, the deal, which is a large 15% of the state budget, has allowed workers to be fired through straw companies. They were said to be bad workers. If the problem of forgiving bad workers due to the rigidity of the labour law is to be regulated by these provisions, which limit and hinder individual redundancies in the case, I would say, bad work or failure to do work, abuse at work and so on. I do not think that the solution to do so through straw companies is appropriate, nor is it appropriate for companies to operate via mailboxes. Basically, the parent company only retains some amount of liquid money, so much so that it can function with some zero and everything else remains elsewhere. And many of these straw owners receive even a salary from the state budget, perform an important function in the country, but do not pay taxes in that country. There are extremely many problems in regulating working relationships. In this way, I would only suggest that all these measures, which are covered by working relations, be treated in a systematic manner through this law. It's not enough to solve a problem that the media discovered or someone was accidentally warned about, and then the case exploded. These matters need to be looked at more systematically and in the longer term. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Government also has in its hands some mechanisms that can allow certain compensations and transitions. An active employment policy is one of the mechanisms that is a positive measure, but it is probably only here that it is necessary to determine whether an active employment and education or training policy gives those appropriate results at a sufficient level. Either the recovery from these measures is 10%, 5%, or those included in these programmes are 50%, 60%. We know that the matter cannot be realised 100%. Not at all. Maybe in the long run, but if we go into some of these measures, we're going to use resources to do that, then we should assess whether the measure has taken enough people and then adequately covered them and enabled them to continue to function normally or not. It is also likely that some important step will have to be taken in the case of measures relating to the economy to create new jobs. Social policy, which is enshrined in the exit strategy, is written here as a fundamental step, a fundamental response to time problems. The fundamental answer to the problems of this time is measures related to the promotion of economic growth to the creation of new jobs. And social policy is essentially a policy that compensates for what cannot be covered by economic growth measures. Unfortunately, the system is reversed in this coalition. This is said to be the primary measures related to social policy and relatively few measures are in the exit strategy, in fact nothing, the key financial measures are the Capital Investment Management Act and the restructuring of Kad and Sod, which is essentially a measure that brings nothing, just puts matters from one to the other and withdraws control and does not bring any additional value. All measures that would bring added value or a large majority of those that were not even used were ignored, whether proposed by the opposition, whether they were proposed in the small or large-scale associations of interest, in the assembly system. Few measures have been taken. For the vast majority of the measures proposed, it was said that they were increasing the deficit to increase public debt, etc. However, both items are extremely high, a deficit of 600 million at present, public debt has grown enormously, most in the euro area, and none of the two indicators has resulted from any measure proposed by the opposition or any interested association. However, I propose that we address these problems, which are related to the situation, with a more sound, more rational, even more complete, and in particular in the right order, with the right priorities. We need to know what's priority and what's added. And here, Mr. Secretary, here I must admit that you are successful in the government because your actions have become crucial. I didn't say they were bad, but they should be more than a complement than a foundation. The government should turn things around a little differently, and we should deal with these things in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. A reference who is monitoring our time work has informed me that there is a difference of 10 minutes, and let me inform you that the time of the SDS is not 30 minutes, but 20 and a few seconds, and please take note of this. Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. Stefan Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u104	Good bye to all of you! Mr Kontic announced, in his opening remarks, the rejection of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act for a number of reasons, which, of course, means that this law will not continue the procedure now, but in the autumn when the prepared ones are completed. I am pleased that this time, somehow, an example of good practice is expressed that if the opposition comes with a good proposal, it is taken into account and then this proposal is incorporated into the law-making procedure alone. As a result of the dismissal of employees through straw companies, the parliamentary group convened or proposed a call by the Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on this subject, and this meeting of the Committee was convened, well-occupied and also very constructive. I think that from then on this proposal that changes in this area should also be made to the law, which affects many employees and also a number of companies. This will mean much more to change, not only that which means the possibility for workers to participate in the adoption of general acts governing the rights of workers, in particular because this also applies to dismissal, which means reduction, reduction of cancellation periods and reduction of dismissals, which can again be a major blow to employees. As I have mentioned, I am pleased that this cooperation somehow comes to an expression, as the President of the Government himself has indicated, that there can also be better solutions with some trust and cooperation between the coalition and the opposition, in particular in the areas of labour law, social laws, where there is still some important dialogue between all partners, especially between workers, trade unions, employers, the Government and all those who cooperate in this area, that then laws that are adopted are sustainable and that some parties are not too disadvantaged. The unions will also have to deal with the difficult situation, but not with force, but with dialogue, because we have repeatedly stressed that we miss this dialogue, which stops at some stage and then threatens not to reach an agreement, there is an option that does not, of course, satisfy anyone. In order not to be too long, I will take into account Mr Kontič's proposal that we do not debate too much today in substance, but once again to express my joy over cooperation and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I am not going to start with Adam either, because we are talking about the law on working relations or this content, which is on the table, which is primarily bound to the Constitutional Court's decisions and to dismissals and cancellations. It is true that the findings coincided with the fact that, after a rapid procedure, there were other changes to be adopted, but they coincided in terms of lessons learned in the coalition and also as a result of the debate we had at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Things just escalated. Let me draw your attention to what has already been said. In 2003, Article 73 of the Act, which takes account of the European Directive on the regulation of this area, was adopted by the full consent of the social partners. But things are happening, and instead of strengthening socially responsible entrepreneurship, just in a time of crisis, as I said, garbage is flooding into the plan. The problem of straw companies is not from today, but as the unions have warned, there has been a long time. However, the fact is that things have now escalated and in the desire to prevent this escalation, which is indicated by this newspaper baron in some areas, has somehow resulted in the proposal to withdraw the consideration of this law and complement it with the addition of Article 73. Here I would like to remind you that the drafting of this Article 73 is in agreement with the social partners, so that they can participate constructively in the design itself. Social dialogue is not dead. But it is true that if you come with a request: simply accept or leave, of course, dialogue in this way is not possible. That we have expressed our own concerns about the regulation of discharges has also been seen in the opening address of our President of the Group and the indication that matters need to be resolved in relation to the Decommissioning Fund, where agreement with the social partners has been reached again in order to establish. Now it is only about speeding up procedures for the preparation of this fund and agreeing on how it will be designed and what patterns it will actually follow. I would say for myself, a little more patience from all sides and real cooperation, which you have invited us to do, and I am sure this will lead us to a common goal. You know, if we start with Adam, then we can say to Adam how the economy overheated, how virtual jobs were created, how we have hypertrophyd production in a particular area, and not least that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, with its successful measures in previous years, has managed to save more than ten thousand jobs, and that Slovenia judges at the rate of unemployment among the four best countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u108	Dear Mr. Vice President! I will be very brief, given the way the discussion is going on, but I would also like to stress what Member Mrs Montenegro Meglic has just said. In fact, the fact that the social partners constantly claim to us that the Labour Relations Act is the act that was absolutely adopted by consensus, but as soon as this mandate came into force, employers who demanded amendments and trade unions that were absolutely against any interference in this law, and we promised them that we would not interfere with this law in the previous year. Well, now we have trade unions, workers with their demands. This, of course, only indicates that the situation is dynamic, but that we will be able to regulate it properly if the dialogue really does occur. We are working towards this dialogue. But they must be prepared for it. And usually for these requirements to intervene in this law contradictory and go one way and the other. Our role here will undoubtedly also be very difficult. However, we are certainly prepared, as is the agreement, to seek the best solutions for the common benefit. All I wanted to do was replicate the argument that at the time of the merger, the measures that had been taken that had further accelerated this conjuncture, which was good, of course, but also helped to inspire that balloon that was then working and making problems for us, and there were no reserves that they would have needed bloodyly at the time of the crisis. And this: we have assessments of the impact of our actions as regards active employment policy. I can say that there is a growing performance assessment, as far as employment is concerned, for individual programmes there between 20 and 80 per cent, depending on the individual target group and, of course, the difficulty of resolving its situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The list of applicants has been exhausted. However, since the time for discussion has not yet come to an end, I must ask if anyone else would like to discuss this point? Mr. Bezjak. Anyone else? I'm filing a report that something's not going to be wrong. Here's whoever wants to discuss it, sign up. Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u111	Mr. Bezjak, it is customary to set time. Is five minutes okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u112	Yeah, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. It is right that the time is coming to change the law, but this law must first be aligned with the social partners and employers. It would be important for these social partners, Mr Minister, to invite a younger frame, which is today a more reasonable frame, which today does not yearn to sit on a chair for 50 years. You invite this cadre and start talking! For these social partners, believe me, I have great respect for them, and believe that you will take a great step forward with younger men if you will listen to them. I would also absolutely recommend that we actually give in to the law, we have a minimum wage, we should legally define that the minimum wage and variable part of the salary 50:50%; this is the motivation of the employees, this is the motivation of the employers. Each employer will pay the employees well if they create a business well. There is never just one person in the company, only the employer or the director of the company, the company is all members who are employed in such companies. It has been found, also from the media, that these straw companies now have the greatest pressure on workers from the former Yugoslavia, in fact from neighbouring countries. Really! However, we must be aware that we have almost 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia and that we do not get 30 seams in the company in Slovenia and we must import them from Hungary. Isn't there a hundred thousand employees who don't want to work? That's a question, too. Once again, I would like to stress that we should put into a contract, define in law, because of me, there should be only one employment contract, not that we have for an indefinite period of time, an individual contract, and I do not know how many different contracts. And it's just a deceiving of inspectors, just blinding the eyes of employers and employees. Contracts must be so designed and coordinated with all social partners as well as employers that at any time you can hire people and forgive people at any time. No employer will forgive good people, no employee will lose his job. I would also like to refer to the fact that there would be a need in the Treaty for what is a major breach or minor breach. What if an employer, a director, or an employee, an employee, does economic damage? How to answer for these things. It's not exactly defined either. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But it's very, very loose. It's important, once again, Minister, find dialogue, invite younger people, younger people aren't afraid [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a law. On the proposal for a decision as to whether it is a suitable law for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE MARKET OF WORK. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Group of 12 Members and Members of the First-signed Bojan Kontic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Once again, third time, on the third law. The Employment Insurance Act for unemployment, which has been amended and supplemented 18 times since its inception in 1991, and changes to the law have been quite unsystematic, which today has caused a number of difficulties in its implementation. Active employment policies have been modernised in recent years, and a number of new measures and programmes have been introduced, which have often not been implemented quickly and efficiently because of inadequate solutions in the aforementioned law. The current economic and financial crisis has made it even more clear that the labour market needs more and new operators, new approaches and, above all, procedures need to be simplified and the number of documents governing this area reduced. The biggest obstacles to the implementation of existing legislation are mainly the following. The vague delimitation of activities according to funding sources when it comes to either services or measures. Secondly: time-consuming procedures for the use of budgetary resources for active employment policy; insufficient grounds for the inclusion of certain vulnerable groups of persons entering the labour market; new labour market conditions of an unadapted unemployment insurance system and the consequent difficulties in the implementation of this scheme, including decisions on rights under the insurance system. Last but not least, insufficient grounds for the participation of different institutions in the treatment of persons with employment barriers. One of the key reasons for amending legislation is the transposition of European legislation into the national legal framework, particularly in the area of the free movement of labour. The main objective of the new labour market regulation law is to further implement the concept of flexicurity in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. This objective will be achieved in connection with changes to the system laws governing labour relations and social security on the one hand, and an increased role for active employment policy and greater security for unemployed persons on the other. This will strengthen the security of those who have lost their jobs or are threatened with their employment. We will allow young people faster access to cash benefits in the case of unemployment and will extend the time for receiving this compensation to the elderly. We will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the implementation of active employment policy measures, reduce administrative burdens on businesses and persons in the labour market and increase supervision of institutions in this market. The law also introduces stricter financial and professional supervision of the functioning of the institutions involved in the regulation of employment. A key focus is on a systematic approach to reporting and monitoring and evaluation of measures. This will enable more efficient and cost-effective use of public funds. The Labour Market Regulation Act will thus serve as a basis for more efficient service delivery in this market, which can be made available through concessionaires through a new one. The basis will be for more effective implementation of active employment policies, as the law brings new solutions to respond more effectively to rapid changes in the labour market. However, it will also provide a basis for more efficient implementation of the unemployment insurance system and the right to such insurance, as it changes the conditions for obtaining monetary compensation, broadens the range of beneficiaries, increases the amount of compensation in the first three months of receipt and increases that amount – or in the maximum and minimum amount. We can say that this will increase safety in the event of a loss of employment, especially by exposing the younger employees or the younger generation, who often perform work in so-called flexible forms. However, we will also allow a faster way to start or re-employment for those who lose their jobs and, of course, ensure more effective implementation of labour market measures. Among them, I would mention in particular career orientation, monetary promotion of the activity of unemployed persons, cooperation between labour offices and social work centres in finding solutions for recipients of monetary compensation, as well as stricter supervision of labour intermediaries, which has been repeatedly exposed to the problem so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word of Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u118	Hello again! We've had quite a time together. Your Honor! The proposal for a labour market regulation law is the third in the labour law package that we are considering today. At the same time, it is important to stress that this time it is a proposal that has reached a level of coordination with the social partners. The latter is not surprising, as the law significantly enhances the rights of unemployed persons while at the same time expanding the number of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits. It is not irrelevant that the financial burden of the greater scope of rights on their shoulders will be borne by the State. The bill is now under first reading and will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats as a suitable basis for further consideration. Of course, we expect that possible new, good proposals to improve the text of the law will be taken into account in further consideration. I also support the proposed law because, more comprehensive and transparent than so far, the employment policy and the care of the unemployed are regulated. It is worth mentioning that the current law on employment and unemployment insurance, as already mentioned by the Minister, has been adopted long ago in 1991 and has been amended many times. However, all amendments and additions did not contribute to the consistency of the law. It was only for this reason that it was time for the government or the competent ministry to draw up a new system law in this area. However, since we are at the same time in a period of one of the biggest economic and financial crises, this law is also important in terms of the introduction of greater flexicurity in the labour market, which is also an inevitable process in Slovenia due to the globalisation of the economy. Greater flexibility and security in the labour market automatically raises the issue of ensuring an adequate social situation for people. Social security is as important for Social Democrats as flexibility in the labour market. The proposed labour market regulation law therefore refers to the security wage of the coin, which we call safe flexibility. At the same time, with improvements in active employment policy, this is the third pillar of safe flexibility, ensuring that greater flexibility actually affects more flexible employment and not just more flexible forgiveness. The bill on rights brings some concrete improvements. First, mention should be made of the revised conditions for obtaining a financial compensation for unemployment. The bill extends the range of beneficiaries of monetary compensation, as the new compensation will also allow for the acquisition of persons who have been employed for at least 9 months in the last 24 months. This is significantly more favourable than the current regime, which provides for at least 12 months of employment in the last 18 months as a condition for obtaining the right. This will also benefit many young people who have not had this right so far. Cash refunds will be higher in the first three months of receiving and are increased from 70 % to 80 % of the base, while the period of remuneration for workers over 55 years of age will be extended. From the point of view of strengthening the social model, which we are constantly working on, it is essential that the proposal of the law offers increasing rights, extending the range of beneficiaries who can voluntarily protect themselves in the event of unemployment, and consequently increasing the number of beneficiaries of the money for the period of unemployment. The change in the entry conditions will also make it more likely for young people to benefit from the cash refund, which means that there is also an intergenerational transfer with little work experience, which will increase their social security. The proposed Labour Market Act also increases the scope of work for the unemployed in order to maintain contact with the labour market, i.e. the so-called activation, while preserving the right to a financial compensation. It also introduces partial unemployment, where the unemployed retain the right to a proportionate part of the financial compensation for the duration of unemployment at the time of receiving a short-term job. We believe that these measures are geared towards enhancing the social security of job seekers, including by introducing new measures of active employment policy, thereby strengthening the social integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market. The new definition of vulnerable groups in the labour market will also contribute significantly to this, which will significantly improve their priority integration into active employment policies. An important improvement, a step towards a stronger social partnership, and especially welcomed by trade unions, is the fact that the proposal increases the role of the social partners in the formulation of labour market policies or in the formulation of active employment policies and their implementation. Improvements in the field of labour intervention agencies are also one of the important changes introduced by the law. This is a complex area of regulation in which there has been a number of abuses and violations of workers' rights in the past, in the current regulation, for example, there is no clear gap between the provision of services and the provision of workers, which makes effective control impossible. The draft law thus specifies the conditions and procedures for the provision of work to another user and also defines inspection supervision in this area. In short, the proposed law represents an important step in the introduction of the so-called external flexibility, which will be adequately secure by increasing the rights of people who have become unemployed and by increasing the coverage of those persons. Enhanced measures in the field of active employment policy, however, are an even greater concern of the State to help the unemployed to get employment as soon as possible and thus enable them to take care of their social security. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats supports the proposed law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u120	Your Honor! The reasons for the adoption of the proposal for a labour market regulation law, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are well founded in certain segments of the draft law, namely, the Government states that the economic and financial crisis has shown that it is necessary to provide new operators of measures on the labour market, new approaches and in particular the need to simplify procedures and reduce the number of documents governing this area. The biggest obstacle to the implementation of the programmes is the vague delimitation of activities carried out and financed as a public service and activities financed by the programme. The unemployment insurance system is outdated and in practice it is difficult to implement. The current crisis, which has resulted in high unemployment, has shown that the current unemployment insurance system does not provide many with sufficient security when they lose their jobs. At the time of the drafting of the draft law regulating the labour market, the problem of student work in Slovenia was also brought forward and resolved in accordance with the decision taken to regulate this area in a specific small work law. The Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia is the most important provider of labour market measures. The Government notes that the Slovenian Employment Institute does not have some specific knowledge of working with unemployed persons in its work, so it is also necessary to find the necessary solutions in this area. Labour intervention agencies, which are very important in terms of labour market flexibility in the EU, are also very important for us, and this area needs to be re-organized. Thus, many areas covered by the proposed law are listed and need to be re-organized. The proposed law follows the following objectives: to increase job searcher safety, to establish a network of operators that will enable effective implementation of measures, to increase the efficiency of the implementation of active employment policy measures and to reduce administrative burdens for businesses and persons on the labour market. The solutions proposed by the Act, the increase in the range of beneficiaries of monetary compensation, young people with less than a year of working age, and the increase in the amount of compensation for the first three months from 70 to 80 %. We believe that such measures are necessary in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, but this increase is not sufficient. The minimum wage for those who receive the dose is extremely low. In this respect, in the letter to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we point out that the right to retirement under the Labour Relations Act is considerably reduced. This measure of so-called flexibility is in this respect rather unbalanced. On the one hand, we are talking about increasing flexibility and, on the other hand, the same level of security is not guaranteed. The law also proposes to extend the duration of monetary compensation for persons over 50 years of age who have more than 25 years of working age, to allow for partial unemployment while maintaining a proportionate right to financial compensation, to prioritise the inclusion of vulnerable groups of recipients of monetary compensation and to financial assistance in active employment policies, to the rights of unemployed persons to perform certain forms of work while retaining the right to financial compensation in the event of unemployment. The possibility of new operators of measures, in particular concessionaires and foundations, is introduced. It also envisages the introduction of new active employment policy measures, such as job replacement and job sharing, the expansion of lifelong career orientation services as a first step towards employment, the simplification of the procedures for selecting operators and employers, the inclusion of social partners at local level and the systematic modification and evaluation of active employment policy measures, the elimination of unnecessary administrative burdens for businesses and job seekers, and the introduction of modern electronic services. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we point out that the law is not fully in line with the Economic and Social Council, namely the 8 articles of this Act that are not harmonised. We also point out that there has been a significant reduction in pension rights. The unemployed person now has the right to pay contributions to the ZPIZ if he has not received a pension for a maximum of three years after the expiry of his pension, and only if he is one year old. It is possible to agree with the reduction of this significant benefit, but solutions must also be found for those older people who will actually find themselves in difficulty, as no one will want to hire them because they are a higher cost, which is a problem that should be addressed in the Labour Relations Act. These persons will most likely come from the unemployment benefit recipients' register in the social assistance recipients' register. Despite the fact that the new law is intended to provide the basis for a more effective policy of active employment, the fact is that the current policy is not effective enough. We are wondering whether the future will, or will there be, change in the programmes. Specific programmes are important, not just strategies and measures that remain at the declaration level. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Persons with Disabilities is pleased to say that it has increased funding for the implementation of an active employment policy. However, efficiency is not only measured by the amount of money earmarked for active employment policy. It is important whether these funds have really achieved certain goals or are simply about the distribution of money. Does the Ministry have efficiency analyses to achieve its objectives, and what are the results? And of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a labour market regulation law, but we expect that the amendment bill will be further improved in further consideration and thus achieve the objectives of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u122	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Labour Market Regulation Act, however, is only one in a package of so-called three draft laws which the Government has forwarded to the parliamentary procedure for changes in the labour market. This is a proposal for a law that we can all sincerely agree is welcome and urgently needed because of actual changes in this area. The law is linked to changes in both work relations and student work. While the content of the Act will fully replace the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, which regulates the employment policy, the insurance system for those who have lost their jobs, the scholarship, the field of student work and the basis for the functioning of institutions in the labour market, to the greatest extent, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. The changes experienced by the existing law have been partial, as none of the previous governments have been able to fully address the relevant changes that would have followed the actual situation in the labour market. Active employment policy has been modernised in recent years as a number of new measures and new programmes have been introduced and their full implementation has been hampered by very inadequate legislation. An additional argument for amending or enacting legislation is also the existing economic or financial crisis, which has shown more clearly that it is essential in the labour market to provide new operators with measures, to introduce new approaches and, above all, to simplify procedures. One of the major anomalies is the vague delimitation of activities carried out and financed as a public service and activities financed by the programme. This will be duly regulated by the Labour Market Regulation. The main objectives identified by the Government and supported by the Task Force are to increase the safety of job seekers, to establish a network of operators that will enable effective implementation of measures, to increase the efficiency of the implementation of active employment policies and to reduce administrative burdens on businesses and persons in the labour market. The proposal therefore increases the number of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits by reducing the entry conditions for the acquisition of rights, increases the amount of cash compensation for unemployment in the first three months, prolongs the duration of cash compensation for persons over 50 years of age and over 25 years of age, allows partial unemployment while retaining a proportionate right to financial compensation, predominantly includes vulnerable groups of recipients of cash compensation and financial social assistance, and allows unemployed persons to carry out certain forms of work while retaining their right to financial compensation. In addition to the existing provisions on new operators of measures under this Act, here – I am talking about concessionaires and foundations – among the new active employment policies also includes job substitution and job sharing. It expands life-long career orientation services as a first step on this path, and, as already stated in the introduction, simplifies the selection of operators and employers, includes social partners at the local level and introduces modern electronic services in line with the 21st century. At first glance, although the changes are mainly positive, it must be acknowledged that the labour market will change substantially after the crisis has come out. That is why I will not reiterate the political and sociological challenges ahead of us at this stage of the discussion. At the time of adoption of the exit strategy, we have noted that Slovenia's economic model is underdeveloped and sustainable, including its social side. The fact is that technological development and the development of services raise questions about long-term employment, as we have known it to date. Slovenia, as a social state and a welfare state, will have to respond faster and bolder with increased unemployment. This is why a new social consensus is needed in the first place, which will increase the vulnerability of the welfare state to new risks, increase income redistribution and redefine payable work as the only source of financial independence and social security. In Zares, as a solution to the increased risk of poverty, this is already around 12%, and social exclusion, we see in the introduction of universal basic income, because we believe that equality, anti-discrimination and individualisation must become the foundation of a new concept of social inclusion regulation. This is also one of the outputs that will facilitate the introduction of the so-called safe flexibility of "flex security" into practice. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a law, of course, with the expectation that amendments to the Labour Relations Act and other reform proposals will protect the competent ministry to the greatest extent possible because of the moral questionability of the activities of certain employers, which is the weakest article in the working environment. Thank you. Of course we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is possible to agree with the principles and objectives of the labour market regulation law and, above all, the fact that there have been long-awaited and necessary changes in this area. The proposal in the first chapter of the introductory provisions provides for the implementation of active employment policy measures as the main tasks of the State, in accordance with the strategic documents for this area, and for the operation and development of the compulsory and voluntary unemployment insurance system. This reduces the administrative burden on employers when applying for a job, as it increases the number of cases where no application is required. The unemployment insurance system introduces a number of innovations, and above all it seems to us to be a good solution and a more flexible approach to job replacement and job sharing, which was also our proposal in the past, particularly in the case of parental leave, i.e. maternity leave. However, it seems that the concept of so-called flexicurity, which the unions apparently do not trust, does not inspire confidence. We also welcome the fact that the annex already contains a regulation on the arrangements for the award of concessions, which would be good for practice to be elsewhere, especially for this to happen in health and other legislation. The objectives of the law, such as enhancing the safety of the job seeker, establishing a network of operators that will enable effective implementation of measures, increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of active employment policies and reducing administrative burdens for the company and persons on the labour market, are, in our view, also acceptable. The law provides for market regulation: by increasing the number of beneficiaries to receive cash compensation for periods of unemployment, by reducing the entry conditions for obtaining the right, by increasing the amount of cash compensation for unemployment in the first three months, by extending the duration of monetary compensation for persons over 50 years of age and over 25 years of age, by allowing partial unemployment while retaining a proportionate right to financial compensation, by prioritising the involvement of vulnerable groups of recipients of monetary compensation and financial assistance in active employment policy measures, the right of unemployed persons to perform certain forms of work — while retaining the right to financial compensation for the case of unemployment — with new providers of measures under this law, in particular concessionaries and foundations, by introducing new active employment policy measures, such as job replacements and the sharing of jobs, by extending the provision of lifelong careers under this law, in particular through the implementation of social policy priorities and through the selection of the first actions. By removing unnecessary administrative burdens for businesses and job seekers and introducing modern electronic services, we certainly agree. We also support the integration of social work centres and employment institutions. In doing so, we recall once again that social work centres need human resources for all new tasks, particularly new social legislation. In short, marriage brings many new and good changes. In the area of employment and rescue in the event of unemployment, there are several very large-scale laws before the National Assembly, which will require exceptional logistics and harmonisation of the relevant services when in force. Either they will be humanely trained, or there will be sufficient control to ensure that there will be no general confusion or irregularity in the entire crowd of news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The drafter prepared and wrote this proposal in a desire and urgency after: for the first time, the modernisation of the entire system of applicable employment and unemployment insurance arrangements. Although almost 20 years old, the law has been amended 18 times, and changes and additions have systematically interfered with the law, causing implementing problems with all measures implemented through active employment policies. Secondly, adapting the legislation and measures of the active employment policy in the light of the flexibility of the labour market and adapting it to the current, or not such a strong economic and financial crisis. This is achieved through the development of such solutions that will increase the safety of job seekers and also upgrade or expand the system of integration into employment programmes. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that there are very different situations in which, due to the wide variety of circumstances which make it impossible for an unemployed person to be treated on a common denominator and, in the context of the protection of their rights and their employment opportunities, thus, the rights and employment measures, the latter make sense to form them according to each individual target group. The proposal for a law is followed accordingly. It also provides for the extension of unemployment rights adapted to rapid changes in the needs of workers in companies, as well as the unemployment of two critical groups, young job seekers and older workers. It introduces a new beneficiary group system for active employment policy measures, the status of which is not unemployment and which come from so-called vulnerable groups. It consolidates and complements the existing and introduces new measures and programmes that are expected to have a more favourable impact on further employment opportunities. Furthermore, the key changes in the current regulation still concern the prediction of new operators of measures, which extends the existing network to foundations to improve employment opportunities that will operate in the local environment in a way that connects the social partners and implement training and education programmes aimed at both employers and workers. We hope that with the re-enactment of the scope of the work to another user, i.e. the job-providing agency, order and supervision will finally be established here, as we doubt that 179 agencies are working today in accordance with the mission or purpose of their establishment. The DeSUS Group welcomes this law and supports it, but I should point out that, due to the remaining or legal legislation which is and will still be under consideration, depending on its application or non-implementation, the legal provisions in the next stage of the procedure are likely to need to be remedied slightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Slovenian National Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry! The very title of the present bill refers to the content of the law. So on regulating the labour market, which represents one of the most important segments of human life, as there are job seekers with knowledge, skills and work experience and, on the other hand, candidates seeking job vacancies. The new employment opportunities are looking for both the unemployed and those who have jobs, but they would like to do other jobs or stop their jobs and look for new opportunities in the labour market. And the Slovenian labour market has quite a few characteristics that deviate to a certain extent from the general stable characteristics of labour markets in other comparable European countries. Let me mention just a few specific characteristics or shortcomings in the Slovenian labour market, which is characterised by insufficient flexibility. Slovenia must achieve greater flexibility in the labour market and in employment, more frequent part-time and temporary employment, easier mobile labour flows. People should become more responsible for their work, employment and education. Paying policies should also make it possible to adapt more to the cost of work at the entrepreneurial level, where social responsibility of people needs to be increased. And we can also list some of the characteristics of the Slovenian labour market, such as: low level of employment in certain age groups, low educational and qualification levels, too many unwanted jobs, educational, professional and regional structures, mismatches, unequal access to work and capital, and we could also say some in describing the situation and problems in the Slovenian labour market, which should be taken into account by the new proposal for a labour market regulation law if we want to respond adequately to the challenges of the new time and reach forces with appropriate guidance and proper measures. Slovenia is also bound by the Lisbon process in order to resolve the above-mentioned problems, by which we seek a certain balance between knowledge-based economic development and social cohesion in Europe. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe and expect the Government to prepare, over time, such a proposal for a law that will ensure that the following objectives are achieved: to increase the level of employment, to improve the educational and qualification composition of the active population, to increase the share of demanding and knowledge-intensive jobs, to resolve structural, educational, professional and regional disparities and to limit inequalities in the labour market and so on. Well, which of these does the proposed Labour Market Regulation Act contain for consideration? In the Slovenian National Party, we have processed it thoroughly and unfortunately found that, although it introduces certain areas, it regulates certain areas adequately, but it does not meet our expectations. And it is likely, in such a form and with such content, that it will not effectively address all the problems mentioned above, and we would suggest that the Ministry should take a more thorough approach to further processing and drafting the proposal. In short, in other words: we believe that the proposal needs to be further addressed, but even though, as I said before, it contains some positive solutions, such as the introduction of an active employment policy, the improvement of the safety of job seekers and, to some extent, the improvement of the concept of safe flexibility in the labour market. With regard to safe flexibility – as I have seen somewhere – in fact, from professional literature is a combination of the words "flexibility" and "security", and now we have security flexibility, which in itself does not say everything. Then, not least, the faster response of the country to dynamic changes in the labour market, this is precisely the flexibility that I mentioned in the introduction, but also the positive thing – the role of lifelong career orientation in the decisions of individuals on the job path, and not least, the faster treatment of unemployed people. These are all the positive aspects of this proposal, but I am sure that there will still be a number of amendments to the next reading, which will also take place in certain segments or articles. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye again! In times of tight economic conditions and higher unemployment, the lack of legal regulation of the labour market has been further demonstrated. The Labour Market Regulation Act is part of a package of labour law, which includes amendments and additions to other laws that are still in force today and in the past days. Amendments to the legislation cover the labour market, its greater flexibility on the one hand and greater security on the other. The objectives of the law are aimed at strengthening the social state and strengthening the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which will allow for new and adequately paid jobs. The current law on employment and unemployment insurance regulates employment policy, unemployment insurance, scholarship and the field of student work, as well as the basis for the work of the Employment and Labour Funds Institute. Changes in the labour market have made it unconstitutional and obsolete. The provisions on scholarships were withdrawn from the law as early as 2007. The Small Work Act will regulate the field of student work for a new one, and it will no longer be in the labour market regulation law. In practice, many new solutions and measures are being implemented in the field of active employment policy, which are difficult to implement due to inadequate legislation. One of the major problems is the lack of clear funding, i.e. what is financed as a public service and how individual programmes are financed, and in particular the problem is too long procedures. The LDS would like to highlight two shortcomings of the current law. The first is that the current unemployment insurance system does not provide many with security. Young people are exposed because the current condition for receiving compensation is at least 12 months of employment in the last year and a half. Most young job seekers, however, are unattainable. This lack of a new law removes and thus brings more equality to the labour market. The OECD also reminds us that we have too many people who do not receive unemployment benefits. Older workers have greater job security, jobs for an indefinite period of time, and younger workers for a fixed period of time, following other restrictions, such as obtaining loans. The second and media-response anomaly is also a job search agency. Slovenia is expected to have a total of 179. However, some estimates suggest that around 1% of the workforce would be employed. They are mainly intermediaries for work in the field of construction and industry. There are different views about their work. In the opinion of the trade unions, the agencies are in breach of labour legislation and employers are assessing the agencies as useful, as they can quickly get workers through them. At the same time, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Labour Inspectorate find that many agencies are not registered, work without concession contracts and so on. Therefore, in the LDS, we support a solution in a law that introduces more order in this area and responds appropriately to warnings from practice. It is specified that only agencies that have not infringed labour law and social legislation in the last two years which do not have outstanding obligations in the field of taxes and contributions may be entered into the business register. The proposal for a labour market regulation law, according to the LDS, brings a number of relevant changes that will increase the safety of job seekers as the number of beneficiaries of unemployment cash benefits increases. The condition will be employment in the last 24 months for at least 9 months. This will bring greater social security to the younger generation. The first three months of monetary compensation will be higher and it will also improve the receipt of monetary compensation for persons over 50 years of age and over 25 years of age. This is an important element of the implementation of the concept of safe flexibility, the principle of which is greater flexibility of the labour market, but also greater security for the duration of possible unemployment. In the LDS, we support the introduction of a model of so-called partial unemployment, where the unemployed retain the right to a proportionate right to a financial compensation when receiving a short-term job. Priority will be given to the integration of vulnerable groups of recipients of monetary compensation and financial social assistance into active employment policy measures, as now compulsory participation of social work centres with the Employment Service in the preparation of specific programmes for individuals who are particularly difficult – due to dependence, mental disturbances and the like – will be given employment. We further support solutions to ensure that unemployed people's status can also be gained by those who are educated at work, which was now a problem, and that job search services can also benefit, for example, students and workers who are at risk of losing their jobs. The law will allow for the award of concessions for the implementation of the public service in the field of active employment. This provides for the establishment of foundations to improve employment opportunities as successors to current labour funds. They will mainly implement training programmes and carry out the task of integrating the social partners at the local level. According to the LDS, this law regulates the labour market by making it more social and intergenerational. It seeks to achieve greater balance or equalisation in the labour market. That is why we support it in the LDS, as it brings additional security to job seekers and supports the implementation of an active employment policy among a number of positive solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Andrey Magain has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u132	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. The law, as it was written, does not essentially cause any controversy. As we see, there is a need for a change, actually replacing the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. I had to do it myself in the course of my professional exam, and I knew him, and I was surprised to learn that since 1991 there have been 18 changes and it is difficult to know all the changes. Professionals, too, had difficulty in changing, controlling and interpreting this law, which had been complementary for years and years. That was the urgency of this measure, so I will not repeat it because it has been said several times, and I also see that there is no real interest in a broader debate. I've got an hour. Just don't be afraid. [[...]] I will limit myself to chapter 11, which may not in itself be disputed, has established a copy. It refers to an agency to provide work for workers. There are no major changes here. Of course, these changes also concern the activities of certain agencies that have essentially provided service work. This is the case for the transmission of labour to users, which then includes workers as their workers in the labour relationship. Nevertheless, the ministry should not worry about why so many of these agencies suddenly appeared. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, this is one of the most popular forms of flexible employment, even abroad. In my view and also in the analysis we have been doing with the Unemployment Society – this was in 2006, when we carried out one of the most interesting surveys that I have already discussed on the parental committee – we can see that this is also one of not only popular forms but also the abuse of workers' rights. I wanted to draw attention to the law on changes in working relations, but there was no broader debate because the news will be presented. In particular, Article 73 is referred to. I believe, however, that although the Minister has warned us that we will not be spreading any other changes now. Sometimes it's enough, look, just one paragraph or half a sentence, and we can make a huge change. I refer to Section 58 of the Labour Relations Act, second paragraph. Why is this so important? In fact, if this Article 58 were to be supplemented by paragraph 3, these anomalies might be eliminated. It takes a little time, but there's a lot we can do. See, early termination of the need to work with the user must not be the reason for termination of the employment contract with this agency, for example, with the employer who lends the workers. Well, we have found from this survey that this is not the case, which is also a specific contract of employment. In the contract of employment, the worker and the employer shall also agree on the amount of remuneration for the period of early termination of work with the user or for the time when the employer does not provide the worker with a job. This salary or compensation shall not be less than 70 % of the minimum wage. I think that the inspection of all agencies has shown some information that has been little overlooked in the interpretations that it is not at all. I would like to know how many agencies provide this compensation at a time when the worker terminates work with the user and waits for a month, two or three to work with the other user. The inadequacy of this arrangement, which is what we are talking about in Article 58, is that Article 58 states that an early interruption of the need does not mean a break in the Agency's working relationship, but usually the Agency will also end the working relationship or the day after that. After some lawsuit, although I have to say that I haven't seen her, I just heard about her, the agency has made an excuse for the indeterminateness of how much longer it is for her to have this employee. However, we must also understand the agencies that they cannot have exactly three or four months of a worker on hold, if I say so, because from where they should provide funds, from where they should provide 70% of the income for this worker, because an agency worker does not create some value, something that could be marketed because it creates in the user. So the agency doesn't have the resources. When I turned to the Ministry years ago, I asked how the agency should solve this problem, has an employee, after a month of interruption, and the agency should not break the working relationship – what should it do? Refund — How much time: one month, two, three? Where do you want him to get the money? And the secretary at the time, I think Mr Dejan, replied that this must be charged to users in some way; either through flat-rate or through commission. Only in this case would this lease be extremely expensive if, in addition to everything the user has to provide, all the rights of the worker should be covered by these months on hold. The agencies are also in a difficult situation, so they interpret this article, so they don't forgive it the same day, but the next day they say, "We had another day." I think it would be good to determine here how much time the agency still has to have a worker when it doesn't get a new user right away. Now, in the context of these amendments, the Labour Relations Act could be supplemented by an additional indent. I'm going to make an amendment myself, and if this case isn't too complicated and legal, I think the anomalies would end here. In fact, workers would be happy to be able to work on the agency, since, in addition to all rights, they would still have income while waiting for another user. And practice was born here because that's not what it is. It is interesting to note that the largest agency for this provision of income or compensation during the waiting period does not immediately find a second job for workers — thousands of workers per year. We just can't believe this because it's impossible. The practice is to let them go, or to make a concerted resignation, or to have such short contracts that they can fire him within a week. For example, one company orders a worker for half a year and the agency does some contract chaining – six one-month contracts for a worker. I say that if something could be arranged here – I have been warning about this for two years, and I have been warning before that when I was not a Member – a lot of things could be solved. I will therefore propose and submit to the Ministry such a proposal, which I will also explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He's quitting. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Although I have less time than Mr Magajna has had, I hope that I will not take full advantage of this, because I particularly wish to say a few words of praise. In fact, I am assessing if I compare the laws or proposals of the laws that have been considered today to be the most systematicly awarded proposal. Above all, a commendable act is because, as far as the content covered by this law is concerned, it may be the most diverse, and also the time and circumstances in which this law was being prepared are not the most appropriate to draw up such systemic laws, although it is necessary. In short, because of these circumstances, it seems particularly important to me that this bill is, above all from a systemic point of view, quite good and is a suitable basis for further discussion. Two things I might mention, namely, I would repeat the thought of those who have already warned that this law should be very sensitive, especially to the protection of the worker. And that's what I'd point out twice. I do not say that the current provisions are not quite appropriate, but I believe that there is something else to be done and improved, perhaps even in the specifics of individual areas. In particular, as regards the functioning of executive institutions or employment institutions, there may be some possibility of complementing their activities in this direction so that specifics in this area, which are not so small, are taken into account to some extent. There are some options already, but here too I think that an even more positive approach to this issue would be welcome. Perhaps I would say that, in my opinion, the proposal is also ready to meet the challenges of the present time. We do not claim, nor do we expect to be able to write a law of such diverse content for, I don't know, a decade – and Mr Minister has found that, precisely because of the systemic problems of the law so far, there was no possibility of upgrading. So it is the fact that this law is for this moment or for a few years and is likely to change to such an extent that it will undoubtedly have to be complemented or even amended in substance. In short, I am only asking one question or thinking about the following: the interpretation of the law states that the financial consequences of this law should be around 15 million. So I would say, if, under the circumstances, this is only 15 million, this amount will not even be so big as to be problematic, but I'm afraid that, unfortunately, life will be written here by some other scenarios, but by the way, I just mentioned it, and I would really like us to remain within these frameworks, as envisaged in the interpretation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. There's nothing I can do to avoid discussing the law in which I'm being translated into real relief, given that it's the law that no one's obvious to him to be inconsistent with the social partners. And if I make a little joke about this, and in every joke there is a grain of truth, it is not difficult for workers and employers to harmonise themselves under a law where they have the greatest obligation to ensure safe flexibility in fact the state. Since I have been following the law or new laws that we replace with this system law in recent years, part of the discussions that I had at the time could just be realized of the underlying weaknesses that I think this bill is correcting in a good way. My colleague Magajna has already pointed out employment agencies and I remember the debates of the past when we wanted to speed up the initiative for agencies and other agencies instead of the public employment service carried out by the Employment Service, and I think it was said 179. That's why I think chapter 11 is crucial in this law, which is what we're talking about providing the work of workers to another user. If I follow the sad life stories of many of the many employees we have been following in the media, especially in a large number of recent times, but we have also met them before, then it seems to me that in this law, these provisions, which are otherwise based on the European Directive, can nevertheless be seen that infringements will be severely sanctioned; that a limited number of those who will be able to deliver work under strict conditions and should not be recognized in the past as violators of labour law. And another provision that seems very important to me is that it is not for those who intervene to demand any special monetary compensation for this service in connotations. And the third advantage is that employees can actually choose, after limiting this temporary employment, from which employer they will be employed. I do not intend to be very precise and exhaust all the advantages of this law, but I would like to point out one thing. When I reviewed these provisions relating to the employment plan, training of unemployed or job seekers in the context of an active employment policy, this was also a topic that I liked to deal with in the past, it seems particularly good to me that in the career plan, for example, an individual who is focused on a greater activation of an individual, is more effective in his personal engagement to decide or define what his or her goal is, what his or her employment expectations are, and that the assistance given to someone in the context of an active employment policy can also be more effective because the individual is active in all these steps that he or she must take. In this I see a higher level of activation of the unemployed. That's one thing. But the other thing that seems very important to me is that there is also a person who is potentially unemployed in these procedures. So that's the one that's at risk, and that's also defined, say, three months before the end of the job. For a certain period of time, it may be involved in such work, in such an employment plan or something like that. In short, there is also greater concern for an individual to monitor more closely what is happening to his employer, what his employment opportunities are according to the level and, I stress, also the type of education. And this is all very important things that also help to address the stress of the situation, because we are now talking about safe flexibility. Now, after a few years, it is difficult for anyone else to become awkward to use the term "flexicurity" instead of safe flexibility, which we have sometimes experienced. I understand that it is difficult to reach consensus on something where flexibility is always too low for employers, but for employees security is always too low. But, as it is said, greater activation of an individual is also related to what we call greater participation of employees in management. This is also in part related to what we discussed earlier in the previous law, in addition to trade unions, some rights also apply to those who are not organised in the union or are represented only by the workers' council. These are all very important things to me. However, I would like to make one comment at the expense of this. I understand that measures must be so targeted and that the quality of these measures must also be measured by their effectiveness or how they are targeted and how well they are achieving their objectives. But at one point or at one request, I would say that she did not prove to be completely justified, but she could still bring problems. For example, we say that the educational level needs to be raised. Again, I will remind you that 30 years ago, every 50 years ago, a woman had a higher education or a higher education, and now one fifth of women with a higher education or a higher education. But if you look at it, in some not-so-great environments, employment opportunities for women with higher education are less than men's employment opportunities, especially when they are the first job search. I remember some data, 53 first-time job seekers were at some employment agency. There were 50 women and 3 men. But all I'm talking about is data for highly educated people. The question is whether our labour market is capable of absorbing all workers and workers with higher education. I understand that the type of education is not always in line with the needs of work. But this is a problem that is only solved in combination with different moments and different elements. The second moment, which, in terms of employment and the management of the labour market, is very busy or disturbing, in fact, what Mr Minister has also been talking about and what we hear repeatedly, is intergenerational solidarity. As on the one hand, we are facing severe employment after 50 years, and these are not at all the problem groups of workers that are more difficult to employ on European standards and the first job seekers mentioned. I think that the law that enjoys such support will be well-adopted and effective when some anomalies are more effectively eliminated. But in any case, it's good to have him. To conclude, there is only one thing I would like to warn you about, but it will not be very kind, Mr. Minister. As far as the Small Work Act is concerned, I've noticed that you have two draft regulations, and there are twelve regulations in this law. I have no comment on this account at all, and I can even commend you on the fact that this is one of the rare laws that are also accompanied by sub-laws. I would just like Slovenian spelling rules to be respected. Now I will not talk about commas or anything else, but simply about the fact that at least the Slovenian alphabet has to be taken into account when the letters are used to mark the line. We cannot dock on the English system, but we need to include the letter completely normal. That's what I thought would be right, because this is the case — I know that this can be done in the editorial department, but it would be good if we didn't meet at any other stage of the marriage. By the way, Mr. Secretary, I'm giving you and your team all the credit for a lot of work and a lot of hard work. And once again, I think you are the ministry that should always be specifically mentioned and commended when we talk about efficiency in planning the exit strategy from the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u138	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! As I said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, I believe that this law is one of the better laws that have been introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly. It also seems very important to me, as colleague Majda Pótt said, that they are prepared for a submarital act; this seems very important and commendable to me. However, I must point out that, as usual, it is a poor assessment of the financial implications. The estimated number of beneficiaries of refunds is not exactly in line with the current situation. I think the effects would be quite easy to calculate, because I am sure that the institution has accurate data on the structure of the unemployed and could do an excellent simulation. I also spoke earlier about an active employment policy, where I think some things should also be highlighted. Here I am referring to a self-employment measure where the unemployed are stimulated to set up their businesses or the so-called p.s. without prior adequate education. Slovenia has suddenly become a very entrepreneurship country, as several thousand s.p.s have been set up in this account in recent years. How many of these are still alive today — an important question! Even if it is now a mandatory one-day workshop, it will not be done by unemployed entrepreneurs. Furthermore, what about measures that promote education and training – this is also an important issue. Also, whether employees in companies given money for education by the State have indeed upgraded their skills and education by making them more competitive in the labour market in order to bring higher added value to the employee. For example, a workshop on safety and health at work is paid which is legally compulsory for all employees in the company. This is useful, but does this really achieve the objective pursued by the programme? What about the success of the measure, which monitored the intervention laws by which employees had to be educated on a waiting basis? In what areas and for what purposes were they educated? This is a few questions that I think are important, which, of course, I would also like an answer from the Ministry. Otherwise, we think in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is relatively good and, as I said in the introduction, the position of the parliamentary group, not only will we not oppose it, but we will also support it at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this basket from the package of legislation to resolve the various disagreements that have arisen over a number of years during the transition is probably quite extensive and the ministry's work has probably not been easy, particularly due to such varied and diverse interests in social dialogue. In fact, the very big work that has been done must be commended. I am personally most fascinated by the fact that, among other things, some sub-legal acts have been prepared, because, for example, the lack of most of those legal documents that come into the National Assembly is that all these regulations, regulations and everything else is referred to in certain legislation, whether they are prepared or in certain first, second or third stages of coordination. There is likely to be a lot of speech in particular in ensuring safety at work and health at work, because this chapter will be quite intense and very difficult, because there are also social partners in this area, one would say, far more aware than they once were, and also because of the occurrence of various diseases and various deformities. Of course, it is important to stress in particular what we have just said quite a few times that for all the records in the labour market, for all the registers that appear, there is a need to make a network of all these registers and see where those optimal economics and not duplications in the various data can be achieved, as is the case with the system, that everything in one place can also be done in this area. Of course, it is also very important to draw up a law or anything that coincides with the emoluments and various funds of those small entrepreneurs who have so far required certain laws in this area. It is very important for me, as a Member, that in the labour market, women who are either in early, early, youth work, immediately after study, that is to say, at first employment, in some way degraded or at that stage after 45, 50, to pay more attention to this segment as well, and see what can be done with active measures to employ this part of the population. Because this is the softest part of the population, which, despite everything that has been done so far in this area, is as sensitive as it seems at first sight, and in all possible ways things are also very mild and slightly blurred. I think this area is so much more important to process. Basically, all praises to the minister and the complete team for the work done. Thank you very much. Of course I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Few times, in the National Assembly so many beautiful words are heard in one marriage. If we did this at least once a month, we would be the most successful country, most likely in the European Community. Thus it is pleasing to a man with such beautiful words; from the left and from the right, of course. I would just like to say a few more words, because, above all, my colleagues have said virtually everything that needs to be said about this law, in addition to being just good, there have been many valid arguments. I've said a few things for a joke, but if we take a serious look back and look at the law so far, we can see that it really doesn't fit the time. The exploitation of workers has come to an incredible extent and I have found out for myself that a worse company than it is, has more lawyers and has more pianists. Just to create through the law he benefits himself as much as possible, a bad manager. We have always witnessed this and it is not important to have authority, it is only money here and if laws do not try – of course, there will never be any law to stop any fraud, but, however, this law will open up opportunities for workers not to be the subject of confusion, the subject of some agreements between agencies, such as what colleague Andrej was talking about earlier, and businesses. We have, I think, over 160 agencies that have been set up by companies themselves, not by someone who would say that I will serve my own bread, set up an agency and care for workers, hire them and follow and help them with this job. After one year, when the employer did not need this worker, he returned him to the agency. The agency that was his said, "Goodbye, thank you, we don't need you anymore." But you have to tell me why this marriage is really good. For look, for a year, and again for a year, but I don't know all the ways that people have been employed; this means that you can't afford anything, you can't raise credit, you can't enforce other rights that those who have an indefinite time contract have – are groups of people who are placed in a terribly difficult and sometimes hopeless situation – and then if payment comes for their work, but not many times. We have recently witnessed such straw companies when it happened that the workers did not know that they were no longer employed in the company where they worked, but they carried the name of the company — here. And when they said, "You're not with us what you're complaining about," they said, "and yes, we're not with you." Of course not! Because someone hired them elsewhere, and when they did not need them, they got out after a short period of time and — let’s go to new projects! This young country is slowly and steadily becoming more mature, and this mess is likely to have to end. There is a need for mutual respect between employees and workers at all levels. What used to be in the social state has now turned into its opposite, and I don't know, it's probably similar in other countries, but if you look at it, it really came to us in such extremes that it's terrible. Therefore, this law, which has to be said that it also agrees with the union and very much agrees, is a guardian, it is also the protection of individual workers' rights and, at the end of the day, what the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities feels best. If we move on like this, soon no one will pay any more contributions in this country. But everyone has countless such and different rights. If you want to pay for your rights, you also have to have income, and making income is out of contracts, out of wages, but not half wages per hand and half wages on the payroll, but out of wages! This is the only way to slowly create order and, again, hopefully, to achieve the sustainability of all systems, including pension, which is the result of our work, because we are all working for ourselves, no one is doing anything else. We're all working for ourselves! In this case, I have great hope that we will somehow come back into some order, which will firstly provide more contracts for indefinite periods of time to restore dignity to the workers. If not the other, they will at least know that when the company fails, that they no longer have anything to do there, and they will be able to help and find another job through this marriage. Here they will be assisted by various institutions, as stated in the law, not to repeat this, and this is what was rightly called by this law to do something. Mr. Minister, I will not praise you, not because you are not good, but because everyone has already praised you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Would you like a word with the motioner, the minister, for comments and thanks for your compliments?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. President! I would like to comment on some of the things that have been said, and also thank you for the commendations given to the entire team. We certainly cannot pass through the social partnership we are always talking about, and we do not want to pass through the social partnership, so I will make some comments on this bill on this account. Our working group, which had many meetings and represented all the social partners in it, identified 41 open issues that the social partners then spoke about, sought common solutions and found them for most of them. However, at the end of the day, there were 11 open questions, or if we call them interesting questions. These are questions where it is difficult to reach consensus, because we get to the point where one of the partners says that it would be even more, and the other that it would have to be less, and so on. In short, it is that the partners have requested longer periods of receipt or higher compensation, and something similar, and at this point also requires an assessment of our financial capacity. You yourself have warned and asked whether we have properly assessed the financial implications. I must say that those financial implications relate to the additional resources needed and not to all the resources needed to do so, so we had to close these open or interesting issues ourselves in some way. I must say, there were no major protests in this case. At the same time, such questions are also open and remain open in terms of a judgment that is sometimes common but sometimes not a motivation for work, where there is a need to maintain the relationship between the amount of the remuneration and the minimum wage and so on. At the time of discussion, all are inclined, some in particular, to pay more, but appropriate relationships need to be maintained so as not to lead to anomalies in behaviour. The consensus was relatively able to be achieved here, clearly for reasons that we could mainly add to security, because we did virtually nothing to reduce, nothing to take away. I think that this will also ensure that employees, in particular those who lose their jobs, are safer. Of course, we also expected, and we still expect, the social partners, to discuss more flexibility with us with equal discretion. Because it will not be possible to increase just one if we want to maintain this balance of security flexibility. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that we all might want most people to have a full-time job, but if this institution is such that it makes it extremely difficult for employers to adapt to market conjunctural fluctuations, then our employers will have a problem and this will ultimately be reflected in a smaller number of jobs. This has to be admitted, this has to be taken seriously. I think that the unions here, who, of course, have the most difficulties in understanding this issue, will understand that. Also because of this, our employers then flee to other forms, contractual works for a certain time, through agencies and so on. If we manage to domain through a thorough reform of the Labour Relations Act to increase the flexibility of regular employment or full-time employment, of course these escapes and those searches will be less and we will be able to provide more of what all employees would like to ensure. We can say, therefore, that security is increasing through this law in many ways: through greater monetary benefits, through longer-term receipts of these benefits, through easier access by those who have made it difficult to access these benefits so far, and through preventive action before unemployment problems arise and, of course, through the activation of employees as well. Thus, security in this law has been highlighted in this proposal of this law. Maybe less flexibility that we'll be looking for elsewhere. In doing so, this security of flexibility could also be set aside differently. We want to move on, sometimes we call it from a passive concept of security to a more active guarantee of security. What does that mean? It is considered that we cannot insist on the protection of an individual in a single job for a lifetime, but we must ensure this flexibility that he is mobile between workplaces and between professions, but also between employers, while ensuring security when this current transition is not immediately achieved and when the risk of unemployment is realized. We feel the same way if we go back just for a moment to the previous debate when it comes to unemployed people. The vast majority or many people, I will not say most, many people still understand the unemployment status as a passive status in which I am placed, I have the right to a financial compensation, I have the right to stand still without any activity to wait until this right has expired. We do not accept this concept and, of course, we want all the measures we have within the set of active employment policies to work with these people, to encourage them to work alone and then, with our help, to try to get back into the working relationship. One way or another, and that is why we also want to include little work in this function when it comes to unemployed people without particularly wanting to harm them. This seems important to me to understand the whole concept. Now, if there have been any other issues, let me mention the only thing where there has actually been a greater limitation or a breakdown of rights – the social partners of the unions – this is waiting at the institution, we call it, before retirement. Now we have a situation where someone can actually stop active five years before retirement. This seems to us in today's situation, when longer work is expected, absolutely too long a period, so we have proposed to shorten this additional waiting period, 2 years to receive compensation and then 3 years to be reduced to 1 year. This would mean at 40 years of retirement or working age, 12.5%, at 30 18% and this is impossible to date in the future with such an institution. This was also the reason for this proposal. Thank you for the initiative regarding employment through agencies, I think it is worth a thorough examination, a study. We can do more in this law or perhaps in the Labour Relations Act, where it is likely to be a little better to monitor then the functioning of these agencies, where we agree that their activities may also be problematic. Now, with regard to individual social groups, I must say that we want to regulate the active employment policy in such a way that it is also flexible, that we monitor the situation in the field of employment, and that the programmes are then directed towards that group that is in a more difficult situation, which is getting worse. These can be higher, highly educated, they can be uneducated, and there are many who have problems. They could be women, they could be some other population. It's built into the system itself. However, there is also emphasis in this law on monitoring, evaluation of measures, which we cannot say has not been done so far. We have also done this so far, the institution has a regular review and also the effects of measures, but perhaps too in-depth and systematic, especially when it comes to greater measures. This will certainly strengthen this activity in the future. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. So, do we have one registered? I'll make a statement that there won't be any of them. Of course, the minister can also apply if he wants to. [[...]] I'll give you five minutes, Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister of Cooperation, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the case of the labour market regulation law, it is very important, as Mr Minister has already said in fact, that contracts – in whatever way they are called – should be flexible for an indefinite period of time, a fixed time or a contract by the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor. Flexible for employees, employers. For both of us! This will take a big step forward between employers and employees. That is why I have already said in the previous debate that you are inviting the younger social partners to the debate. These people look at things quite differently than some who have been union presidents for 30 years and so on. Therefore, if the contract is actually one-sided or one-named, then believe that there will be much less speculation, much less thinking about how to actually get rid of people, how to actually get a good frame and so on. It is absolutely necessary to amend the law to give greater emphasis to agencies than to employment agencies. Because today, the Employment Institute is an institution that, in my view, doesn't even know what it's doing. Every year, they invent all kinds of things that job seekers have to wear to their employers; signatures, numbers, and so on and so forth. It's sand-in-the-eye! These things need to be arranged differently. Therefore, in fact, private employment institutions are much more flexible; they have many different approaches to people. In fact, there is no man in these institutions who would not find him a job. Now, at this time, I believe that the frame is enough, and two years ago, there was really very little or you had a hard time getting it. It is also commendable that there is actually a reduction in the waiting period for retirement from five years to two years. That's right, because these people were still active in five years. They were getting double payments, if I may say so. They waited for retirement, and they also worked in certain companies in one way or another. This has to be stopped. I would also assign this task to the Minister to give marriage, when it is time to retire, that a person has to retire, at least in the economic sectors of these people when the time comes. In public administration, however, 50% of those who do not want to retire and give opportunities to younger people. It's a handicap, it's a country's developmental backlog for years or centuries. I hope that you will actually incorporate these things and comments into this law and that this law will be very flexible and then there will be no machination and then the treaty, such as this or otherwise, can only be one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting’s time frame, tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
