ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Miro Petek, Milenko Ziherl, Villa Rezman, Franz Bogovič, Happy Friend, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Dr. Luka Juri and Milan Gumzar. I invited the President of the Government to agenda items 2 and 7 and representatives of the Government to all items on the agenda and the candidate for the Environment and Space Minister, Dr Rok Žarnić, on the 7th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 10 February 2010. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We're voting. Obviously, the first vote failed. We will therefore repeat the vote. We're voting again. We're voting. 36 Members and Members are present. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. The vote will continue at 9.12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Mr Tanko, I cannot give you the floor for procedural reasons, because we are in the vote on the agenda. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Recommendation in connection with the undeclared public schedules of services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009-2013. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Puksic. With regard to this proposal, the recommendation of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Trofenik, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 11th urgent meeting, on 9 February 2010, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered a proposal for a recommendation concerning the unpublished public calls for services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009-2013, submitted by a group of Members and Members, signed by France Pukšič, to the Assembly in response to the request for an emergency meeting of the National Assembly. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a recommendation. The Committee also took note of the additional explanation given by the representative of the applicants of the request, which stressed that the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly were due to the fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia services for local self-government and regional policy would not publish the invitation to tender for the period 2012-2013. He also felt that the meeting of the National Assembly had not been convened on purpose for so long that the Government had drawn up a 5th invitation to tender. He also expressed concern about the fate of undeclared funds over some €90 million. The representative of the applicants also considered that the State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Affairs, by informing the European Commission, had stopped the flow of European cohesion funds into the state budget. Minister Henrik Gjerkš explained to the Committee that the Government considers the proposal to be unfounded because the Slovenian Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, as a competent intermediary body for the implementation of the priority direction of regional development in January 2006, issued the 3rd public call for the selection of priority operations, the development of border areas with Croatia and the public call for applications for co-financing of operations under "priority guidance, regional development programmes, development priorities and development of regions for 2010-2012". The State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Affairs Service argued that she rejected all the statements made by the representative of the applicants and explained that Slovenia could not obtain funds from the European Treasury due to irregularities found in the Court of Auditors’ report that the Government, in the previous mandate of the then Minister of Budget, was in breach of the rules, in particular the regulation relating to the implementation of the procedures for the use of European cohesion policy funds in the 2007-2008 programming period. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that, in view of the above-mentioned documents published by the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy concerning tenders on the Internet or the Official Journal, the question arises whether or to what extent it was submitted for adoption of the recommendation with the proposed content? The discussion expressed the opinion of the proposers that due to the complexity of the European funds drawback procedures in previous years, it was not possible to draw on European cohesion funds quickly and efficiently enough that they did not take into account all the criteria laid down by the municipality and, in particular, the regional development programmes, and that some municipalities simply distributed the funds by population. Therefore, the amount of the resources drawn up in 2007 and 2008 is by no means the responsibility of the then government. The applicants also considered that some of the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in drawing on European funds in this recital should not affect the suspension of project financing and the retention of the fifth public tender. On the other hand, contrary to the above, the members of the Committee considered that the applicants wished to blur the fact that the selected projects and signed contracts financed by European cohesion funds were not in line with the existing regional development programmes at the time of the operation of the previous Government, as the Court of Auditors later found. This is not only about the quantity and dynamics of the use of these funds, but mainly about the quality of the use of these funds. The majority opinion was expressed that the proposal for a recommendation was not related to the current issue of European cohesion funds drawback and that it had already changed the actual and legal circumstances at the time of the request. On the basis of the debate at the meeting, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, the Committee decided that the proposal for a recommendation was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Franz Puksic, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers with co-workers and co-workers! Good-bye! In fact, I am sorry that we did not sign the request to convene an extraordinary meeting at the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party last year, because if we did, then the fifth public tender would soon take place. However, it is not only the fifth public tender, the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials, the development programme of the regions, but it is the whole issue of drawing on funds from the European Union. The fact is that the drawdown programme 2004-2006 was carried out by the previous government in a somewhat fantastic way, up to 95% of the funds, which was the highest possible. Although when she got 2004, something small was only written down, but then things were going the way they were supposed to. What and how will the programme negotiated by the previous government amount to 5.5 billion, of which about EUR 2 billion plus 4.2 billion in three operational programmes, 0.9 is for agriculture, whether it will be exhausted or not, is a question today. According to the latest official data from February by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, no. They are already afraid that Slovenia will not be exhausted, even in the backlogs for about 600,000 euros, which we have already warned them about a year ago, or at the time of surrender, the new government has been warned about. Let's do it in a row. On 11 November 2008, Commissioner Danute Hübner visited Slovenia, where she wrote that Slovenia was one of the two countries that had already signed a Treaty of Trust in February 2008. They checked the Slovenian auditing system and said it was excellent, so they signed a trust agreement and gave Slovenia the opportunity to exercise more control on its own. The same Commissioner found that Slovenia had made maximum use of the available resources during the period 2004-2006, resulting from its letter. Then came a letter on 19 November, a few days later, from Director-General Dirk Ahner, the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy in Brussels, who wrote: "In the course of your meeting with Commissioner Hübner on 11 November, the Commissioner stressed that Slovenia has proved to be a strong and reliable management and control system and has established a coordination function of key importance at the level of governance authorities. However, it is clear from the recent coalition agreement that, in the near future, we can witness fundamental changes in the governance and control system. Mr Dirk Ahner wrote in seven points possible problems arising from the predicted amendment to the coalition contract. He warned me it wouldn't be good. In point 1, he even wrote that if we were to make changes, it would take about 12 to 18 months to establish a state that the Government has already taken over and has been confirmed with the European Commission and so on. Then, the former Minister of Local Self-Government, Dr. Žagar, felt the need and responsibility for Slovenia and wrote an open letter to the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, stating that in August and November 2007, all operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 had been negotiated, that a Treaty of Trust had been signed with the European Commission and that accredited systems had been exhausted. And he wrote something else that was signed and signed between August and November 2007 and the surrender of €1.5 billion. Then, in the same open letter to the President of the Government, Žagar wrote that the coalition treaty provided for changes and warned that these changes could put Slovenia at risk of losing one billion euros. He also noted that drawing on funds for large regional projects would be much easier and easier if they had regions. As we know, this is not what it is now, and it will no longer be because the regions after Pahor are dead. After all these warnings that have occurred, this happens immediately after the composition of the Government, a visit to Brussels. So the new government is going to Brussels. And who travels to Brussels? Minister Gaspari, Mrs Andrej Jerina, then someone from the secretariat, Mr Vatovec. Where's Minister Plosteiner? If the SVRL was still the one that was the host of the programs. And Minister Gaspari in Brussels, regardless of the letter 19. 11, that means a few days after that, that was 4 December, 10, 12 days later he travels to Brussels and Minister Gaspari says, together with the Secretary of State mags. Mr Jerina, the Coalition Treaty provides for the reorganisation of cohesion policy, namely that the operational programme for strengthening regional development will transfer this economy to the Ministry of Economy, so that the development of human resources will be transferred to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and that the development of environmental and transport infrastructure will be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. The coordination role will be played by the Minister responsible for European Affairs. And he says there won't be any trouble, because he's also vice-president of the government. And what happens? This meeting was attended by Commissioner Hübner, who had previously pointed out in her letter through Director-General Ahner's Directorate-General for Consequences. And at this meeting, Commissioner Hübner again draws attention to all the warnings already mentioned, namely the possibility of conflicts of interest in the field ministries, the possibility of unsatisfactory coordination of ministries, the possibility of suspension or deferral of interim payments due to the new system compliance assessment report, the role of the current management and administration in the organisation, the competence should not be reduced. Of course, it says that all three, if transferred to three departments, will have to have all the jobs, which means that things will double and for a few million euros they will also have to be encouraged. It asks whether the audit strategy will also be replaced, says that the completion of projects from the previous period, which the government must provide in 2009, will be completed in the previous period 2004-2006, and will therefore remain open, in particular to note that any change in the operational programme for environmental and transport infrastructure development, which has a billion €636 million at its disposal, should be avoided. Our government representatives say it's not an internal friction, it's a joint search for better solutions. And that's how we get to the end of 2009, where they found a common solution to the programmes. On 20 January 2009, the Ministry of Regional Development, headed by Mrs Plosteiner, wrote down, drawing funds for the period 2007-2013 - this is from the SVR - for the 2007-2013 programming period, has been awarded or confirmed for a good 1.5 billion European funds. However, the recent proposal for the financial implementation of operational programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period, from the same service, but now with another minister, has been recorded that, for the 2007-2013 programming period, from the start of the programming period to the end of 2009 - where the difference is - even 2009 is present, the 2007-2008 report, that is to say, by 2008, and now the 2009 report, the certified operations for EUR 1.8 billion of European funds, is so much the use of the programming period. That amount shall therefore relate to the public tenders which have been confirmed and published. This means that Mr Pahor's respected government was able to sign and confirm in one year for exactly 0.3 billion or 300 million euros. For 300 million euros. More recently, the government has confirmed that it has negotiated programmes for EUR 1.5 billion. So five times more. If it is not true, you will say that these are the documents that have come from Mr Pahor's government. What was going on in the middle? In the meantime, the political lynching of the previous government and, of course, the blackness and profanation of Minister Žagar and the entire previous government took place. This also happened, of course, by the fact that the State Secretary herself, who was also at that visit, Andrea Jerina in Brussels on 4 December, wrote when the ministers had already agreed something that all of this was not true and that they would be given a new letter to the European Commission, the regional development pillar. And in this same document, Mr. Žagar warned you a year before we will spend a billion euros, you yourself state that 200,000 euros are questionable from one operational programme and 400,000 euros from the other operational programme. This means EUR 600,000 today, you admit that we will not take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Mrs. Pukšič, please finish your sentence because time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u7	In the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we expect you to start working in charge of Slovenia, not for your political interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Dr Henrik Gjerkes, Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposer has significantly expanded the subject matter of his initial proposal, but I will nevertheless try to stick to the agenda and finally respond to some of the claims that have been made. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the Proposal for a Recommendation on Unpublished Public Tenders for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy for the period 2009-2013, which was sent by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the initiative of the Group of Members, with the first-signed France Pukšić. The Government is of the opinion that the proposal for a recommendation on unpublished calls is unfounded for two reasons. Firstly, in January 2010, the Slovenian Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, a competent intermediate body for the implementation of priority guidance, published two additional instruments for the successful implementation of the programme, namely: 3rd public call for priority operations "Development of Border Areas with Croatia" under the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials for 2007-2013 and a public call for applications for co-financing of operations under the priority heading "Regional Development Programmes, Development Priorities, Development of Regions" of the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials 2007-2013 for the period 2010-2012. The second reason is that, in preparing the public call for applications for co-financing of operations under the priority heading 'Regional Development Programmes, Development Priorities, Development of Regions', the SVRL decided to exclude road infrastructure as eligible projects in the 5th instrument. As you are aware, given the different development problems across regions, the operational programme contains restrictions on the purpose of spending. In view of the need to adequately plan the distribution by purpose and with regard to the achievement of effects and results, which are also defined in the operational programme, certain objectives had to be limited. In view of the implementation of the programme so far, we find that the purpose of transport infrastructure has reached an appropriate level of consumption, which is why the purpose of the January public call, i.e. the 5th instrument, is not contained. For those reasons, we estimate that there is no longer a need to adopt the proposed recommendation, which is also recognised in its position by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! On this occasion, I would like to point out that there is no reason to be concerned about the implementation of the Regional Development Programme and other cohesion policy programmes, as the planned activities are in line with the objectives set. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development adopted on 22 December last year, the Government has prepared a report on the implementation of the development priority of the regions under the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials for the period 2007-2013, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly on 28 January. The following findings can be drawn from the report: from the start of the implementation of the perspective in 2007 to 31. 12. A total of €336 million has been signed up so far, 54% of the funds for the entire programming period. During this period, six public tenders - two for the development of border areas with Croatia and four for the co-financing of operations from regional development programmes - have been contractually awarded to the municipalities a total of EUR 320 million, of which EUR 206 million has been paid, 64%, of which EUR 102 million in 2009. A total of 487 operations were approved between 2007 and 2010. Of these, 262 operations should be completed under contracts concluded in 2009, but 77, which is 16%, are not. The Management Board of the operational programme adopted a decision extending the deadline by 9 months. With a relatively low average percentage of implementation in 2007 and 2008, which did not exceed 60% for 2009 we record significant progress to around 80%. Of the 29th. The 1st public call is available EUR 203 million, almost as much as the implementation by the end of 2009 in all operations, on the basis of all six public calls so far. I would like to point out that all available funds for the period 2007-2013 amounted to EUR 585.8 million allocated in the four tenders so far, amounting to EUR 294.7 million, reflecting the volume of public appeal funds issued this month. I would also like to comment on the statements made by Mr Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u10	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u11	When he gave the information, he mixed apples and pears. [[...]] The information he provided is such that it was up to 31. 12. 2008 signed contracts of €862 million, €417,724, not a billion and a half, as stated, and only a situation of 31. 12. 2009 shows that the contracts signed and signed are a billion 552 million and a few more euros. I am talking about EU funds and our domestic resources. The data he mentioned that we have received confirmation that the audit system is functioning well do not yet place the entire cohesion system in vain. The claims that the audit system works well do not guarantee that the entire cohesion system works well. He was doing a little good. We're trying to make it even better. I want to know what we're going to talk about today. European cohesion policy funds are intended for Slovenia. They are not intended for the former government, not for the current government, nor for the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. I think that the previous government has also set up a good programme of European cohesion policy in a certain part, negotiated well, called certain funds and signed contracts, but drawing on it is the European budget's drawback. This was not the case in the previous period with the previous government. It is therefore necessary to complete the whole process and, of course, at the time of the invitation to tender, since it is not necessary or still necessary to know the whole two-step procedure until the end, to complete it to every detail. We had to do it because under rule N+2, N+3 we have to draw on the funds 2007-2008 already in 2010. Once again, I say that the previous government has done well with certain things. We are building them up and the whole system, the entire means of European cohesion policy are for Slovenia, not for the previous government, not for the present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! This is the second time in a year we have talked about the use of European funds. Remember, we talked about this a year ago, on March 4, 2009, at the request of the members of the Pahor Coalition. Above all, the representatives of Zares were zealous here. The purpose of the public declaration at the time was to make better use of European funds in the future, in simplifying rather pooled procedures, and in fact the aim was something else. And as we can see, this assumption that funds are to be used better has not been realized. On the contrary. No invitation to tender was issued for the entire year 2009 on the basis of regional incentives. None. Under the previous government only in year 4 and 2 in the field of cross-border cooperation with Croatia. However, it is not fair and unfair that the Pahorje government boasts good use of resources in 2009 and the net position towards the European Union budget, which is, of course, the result of the calls issued in 2007 and 2008, in the course of the previous government. This comes not least from the opinion of the Government itself, where it says that since the start of the implementation of the perspective there has been a total of EUR 336 million, in six calls. Four strengthening the development potentials of the regions and two cross-border cooperation. However, these invitations were published until 31. 12. 2008 Since there was no invitation to tender in 2009, it is quite clear that the implementation that falls in 2009 is solely due to the calls issued during the previous government period. Of course, caring for better use was not the reason for the discussion at the time, but there were two real reasons, as has been crystallized. Firstly, to show the failure of the previous government in this area, and secondly to show that the funds were divided by political colours. Not one, not the other, has failed, and the information provided by the Pahor government has demarcated all these claims. The additional aim was to discredit the former minister and the former government through the Court of Auditors report, which had been misread several times on purpose, since the net position of Slovenia was negative in 2007. Although the Court of Auditors’ report on page 29 shows that it was positive, the Court found there that the Republic of Slovenia of the European Union received 31 million EUR 330 000 more from the European budget than it paid. It is unfair that the State Secretary at the Gaspari Ministry, who has revised the area itself, repeatedly repeats this non-reality, since she was previously employed in the Court of Auditors. The former government has thus managed to publish six calls within a year in the area of promoting regional development potentials, the current government in no one year. The last fifth, which was published a few days ago and the third, on cross-border cooperation with Croatia, on 8 January, is also clearly a reflection of this general dissatisfaction and revolt which was triggered throughout the country on this account and probably also a consequence of a request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject. This delay was a direct reason for calling this meeting. We know that the previous Minister's promises were written that the invitation to tender would be issued no later than 30 June. That didn't happen. Later, it was a promise of up to 30. The 9th, it didn't come true either. Not because of her, but because of the long arm of another ministry, which wanted to put an escape funding system on the table in this area. As we can see, that, thank God, didn't work. And there is still a real possibility that despite these complications and despite a year's loss of time, Slovenia will draw on everything it intends to do during this perspective. The developments regarding this call have mainly revealed inefficiencies, incoherence between the departments and ambitions of one of the ministries to the detriment of the beneficiaries of the funds and to the detriment of the effectiveness of these funds. However, the consequences of the dispute within the Government and its inefficiency are paid mainly by citizens, municipalities, an economy that could come to this bloodthirsty European money in 2009, when we faced almost a tenth of the decline in gross domestic product. Ministers are not solely responsible for actions, respected colleagues and colleagues, and they are also responsible for the abandonment of duties, the same as the Government. It is important to ask ourselves that we will know what is going on, how many children did not have a chance of kindergarten protection this year, because this invitation was not published. The 2700 left before the kindergarten door on September 1, 2009. A number of kindergartens could be built from these funds in 2009, even in 2010, because the terms of this call are such that they prevent the project from progress during the preparation and implementation itself, as we have witnessed in previous calls, as they condition the application for a legal building permit. And this is an obstacle that I think will cause the wrong projects to be reported. The municipalities will report those projects for which they have prepared documentation, not those on which the documentation is ongoing and on which they have also expressed their ambitions in the regional development programmes. Once again, the Court of Auditors will be able to identify the mismatch between regional development programmes and specifically reported projects. This is twice, three times wrong, but what's more wrong is the growing bureaucracy of this country. Whether a project is regionally oriented or not will be decided by the Office of the Government for Local Policy and Regional Development, while we have sacred regions, while we have an environment where these projects are coordinated and reported, a bureaucratic institution in Ljubljana will decide what is good for an environment and what is not, and will exclude individual projects on the basis of this criterion or other criteria that will be the shadow of this criterion. This debate today should also be an opportunity to draw attention to the relatively weak absorption of funds from the period negotiated during the previous government until 2013, as it follows from the reports that only 15% of the appropriations were approved for all three operational programmes by the end of 2009 and certified reimbursements were well below 10%. The worst operational programmes are the development of human resources and environmental and transport infrastructure, where it has paid and reimbursed strongly below 10%, i.e. areas where Slovenia is the weakest, where it needs the most additional investment and where it needs the most additional incentives and where it needs to be accelerated most. Instead of giving crucial attention to the efficient use of European funds during the crisis and stopping discussing whether some points and commas have been properly placed, and because European funds should be a key source of economic activation, we are always witnessing re-controversies between the departments and thus inefficiency in drawing on these funds. The opinion of the Government and the government service is that what we are saying in the opposition does not hold that the government and the ministries are effective and this opinion, of course, is based on the fact that the net position of Slovenia is favourable in 2009. That's right. I have said that this is mainly due to calls issued during the previous government. The net position in itself does not talk much about the effectiveness of drawing on European funds. The financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 was well negotiated. During this period, we have about €5 billion available, and we have to pay about €3 billion. So our net position is global, 2 billion euros. And it is completely irrelevant whether it is larger or smaller within a given period. It's important if we're going to be at cca level. Five billion used. And in this case, our net position at the end will be €2 billion in any case. But if we don't take advantage of them, of course it's another problem, and the annual net or not net positions don't mean much to us. Although in 2009, the Pahor government planned to receive €814 million from the European Union by means of a rebalancing 2009 rebalancing. It received some less than €600 million, planned €452 million in payments to the European Union, which were somehow also realised in line with the plans, says the net position that was planned and reported to the previous government a year ago that it had been poorly planned, amounted to €362 million, which was EUR 155 million, which is more than half of the plans. And now, once again, by the logic you introduced a year ago, you could start arguing here about whether it's good or bad. It is irrelevant, ladies and gentlemen, whether the funds available will be pumped and used operationally and in accordance with the purposes needed by the local environment and infrastructure of this country. The absence of these objectives, however, is also reflected by the amendments to the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023, which is foreseen to be deleted from 35 projects. That's a third. Among them are some key projects, which are also financed by European funds such as economic centres, where it is envisaged that out of 9 only 3 and 4 or the Government will remain a maximum of 5. Among them, this proposal also deletes the economic centre of the ECO in Pomurje. Interesting! It is then proposed to delete the additional highway programme, which was valued at around a billion EUR 300 million, the road development axes - a billion EUR 450 million. All of this is proposed to be deleted from this resolution, with European funds of €336 million for Pomurje alone provided for by the Economic Centres for the ECO [[Mures]] 26 million euros for the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes - I am talking about the 3, 3a and 4 development axes that are proposed to delete - slightly less than 300 million euros, and so on. I believe that this is a poor direction and that it points to some strange, distorted logic of looking at the country and those problems that urgently need to be addressed by infrastructure and for which we have negotiated European funds. Among other things, it is proposed to delete some projects in different environments, such as the Goriška Tourist Centre and so on. In this debate we are talking mainly about the efficiency or inefficiency of the government, this time in the field of the use of European funds. Let me use an example that's kind of a symbol and an indicator of general state and operation, and that's Falcon. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, which the Pahor government has not been able to solve in a year. This problem is solved for a year! And if this government has not been able to solve a relatively simple problem, how will it be able to solve the key issues facing Slovenia. For this reason, it is not surprising that Slovenia has doubled its debt in all areas over the past year, so Slovenia will not be assisted by any paper-based, unfinished exit strategy, but by an effective team that will not deal with itself and its own affairs or their rolling under carpets. Therefore, this debate, with respect, will unfortunately not contribute to greater efficiency in the use of European funds. However, it has already achieved its purpose by finally issuing the so-called 5th call, giving at least the possibility to a number of municipalities, businesses, individuals to carry out a number of projects, unless the long period of state bureaucracy prevents those for whom the authorities in Ljubljana will find that they do not have a regional development note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! In the Group of Members, we really support the conclusions adopted by the mother's working body. The First-signed Group of Members, France Puksic, made a recommendation to Parliamentary Procedure concerning the unpublished public calls for services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009-2013. Among these reasons, the 5th call, allegedly due to different opinions of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the Ministry of Finance, should not be published, on the appropriateness of public calls. As explained on the parent’s working body, the competent service published in January two additional instruments for the successful implementation of the programme. This is a 3rd public call for priority operations in the development of border areas with Croatia and a public call for co-financing of regional development programmes. However, in the report on the implementation of development priorities, the Government has given broad and transparent data by structure, by region, by municipality and by approved amounts, by payment and by submitted applications for reimbursement. It also stated that backlogs from past years were eliminated in 2009 and some problems and uncertainties were resolved in the tendering procedure that took place at that time. The Committee was thus aware of some of the findings of the Court of Auditors' report, which reveals individual irregularities in the use of funds, including European ones. In fact, the proposal also raises the issue of drawing on or using European funds in the past mandate, unaware of this and forever. The time horizon has therefore widened and the final question is the effectiveness and use of European funds. The question is whether the calls so far have been in line with the rules of the game, and it is not a matter of co-workers, and in particular whether the objectives for which the funds have been drawn will be achieved in terms of legality, economy and efficiency. While we are convinced in the Group that today's reference, especially in view of the extremely forced content it offers us, is insufficient and unfounded. The actual situation and serious and responsible governance in this area far outweighs a considerable degree of obvious political motivation and also interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! We are disappointed in the Slovenian People's Party that we must make such an effort to normalise the use of European funds. This government has already begun to say in drafting a coalition agreement that institutional changes are needed in drawing up European funds if we are to be more successful. This was discussed by the President of the Government, the former Minister of Finance and even the Minister of Finance. The latter said that the mistakes were made by setting up a European drawing-up programme, although you have been warned by the European Commission for Regional Policy that changes are not appropriate and this will slow down the pumping process. At that time, it was not clear why you were doing this. Today it is quite clear that you want to justify your failure and therefore unjustifiably blame the former Minister for Local Self-Government, who has done very well. This was also confirmed by European Commissioner for Regional Policy Danuta Hübner, who praised Slovenia on several occasions. At the end of the previous government's mandate to draw on European funds for Slovenia, the European Commission Commissioner identified the following official document: "We are in the process of implementing the new programming period. Slovenia is one of the first Member States whose programmes have been adopted. The Slovenian Audit System is an appropriate, good administrative capacity to implement cohesion policy funds. This proves the signature of a letter of trust with the European Commission, where Slovenia was one of the few countries with which the European Commission signed such a letter." During the 2004-2006 programming period, Slovenia from the European Regional Development Fund absorbed 95% of the funds and 90% from the other funds, making the European Commission pleased. For the period 2007-2013, Slovenia negotiated EUR 4.2 billion for cohesion policy. This is a 3.5-fold increase compared to the previous period. From the conclusion of the negotiations for the period 2007-2013 to the end of the mandate, they committed or confirmed around €1.5 billion under all operational programmes. This was also confirmed by the director of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy at the European Commission, Nicholas Martyn, on his last visit to Slovenia. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that European cohesion policy is within the framework of European regional policy and therefore we believe that responsibility for monitoring and implementing this policy should remain, as was the case in previous mandates, in the regional development sector. Your wishes for change are also understood, just know that the existing system is geared towards decentralisation of Slovenia and this obviously disturbs you. The projects were decided by regions and you want to be decided by bureaucrats and you do not want transparency. This should be decided by such bureaucrats who, because of their dissatisfaction with their boss, have stopped European funds from being used in Brussels. And so our country was at almost 300 million euros. Your Honor! Let us find so much wisdom together that, in the period ahead, we will draw as much from the European funds as possible. This will also help our economy, in particular improving the standard of citizens' residence and helping local communities to develop them. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are working and working here in the National Assembly to encourage greater, faster intensity of all those working in this country in the field of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam President. A respected minister with co-workers! Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to present a proposal for recommendations regarding the unpublished public calls for services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009-2013. The opinion of the parliamentary group was clearly presented on the parent body and when the third call for the development of border areas with Croatia and the fifth call for the development of the priorities and development of the regions was made, the reason for the proposal for recommendations concerning those calls was also deleted. We believe that the SVR has made it possible to release the normal flow of funding for all these items resulting from the 3rd and 5th calls, and we feel that the debate on the recommendations today is completely unnecessary and inappropriate. It is known that the criticisms at the SVLR's expense are due to the gloring of both of these calls, but we must be aware that this ploronging would not have occurred if, during the previous period, even during the previous government period, not all of these calls and applications for these calls would have shown significant shortcomings and major errors. This was also found by the Court of Auditors. The findings of the Court of Auditors impose specific tasks for corrections to the work of the SVR. And this period was the period during which certain anomalies of all these calls and tendering conditions could be rectified. In this regard, we also welcome the fact that the invitation to tender or that both tenders are made in the way that the funding flows need to be released in such a way that they can be normally carried out. Look, today's debate is scheduled to take place in six hours. I am sure that many of you know what the current situation is like in Slovenian municipalities and in Slovenian regions after the January call, the third and fifth call. In the regions and in the municipalities today, they are working on how to prepare the call for proposals in a good way, to apply and to use European funds in a good and efficient manner. Today, probably in Slovenian municipalities and in regions, they do not care much about debates that are launched into completely different, civilian and different areas, but about the effective use of European funds for the development priorities of the regions and for the development of regions and also border areas with Croatia. And this period in which we have been waiting for both calls, it seems to me that in the Slovenian municipalities and regions they have used to re-examine all development priorities, modify all development goals and prepare them to such an extent that money will be launched into the right content, so that money will be launched into those content that will give some result and speed up the development of regions and border areas. Ploronging and possibly late times for both of these calls in the DeSUS Group are not assessed only negatively, as has been said. Finally, let me say once again that the DeSUS Group fully supports the conclusion of the parent working body, that the recommendations and proposals regarding the unpublished calls proposed by the applicant at this time are completely inappropriate and unnecessary and we will vote in favour of not being able to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, good afternoon! Not because of us - I know that many in this room are not interested in this content - but because of those who also listen and look at us, let me start by saying that there is too much taught words in this room, too much beauty, so on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to point out this problem in a very frank and reasonable manner. First time. I don't know what's wrong, that we always take the recommendation as a recommendation, as something negative, and that one side dictates to the other. What is wrong with the recommendation if we recommend and want to do all of us good? I read the tape record of the debate on the conclusions when we first pointed out the poor progress of the general calls and the use of European funds on 9 March last year. The story was exactly the same: multi-annual debate, several hours of good wishes, lastly even the conclusion that the Committee would support the government and the ministry in their efforts to make the most of European funds. And, interestingly, this decision was not adopted either. Apparently, today is the same story, and obviously I can only repeat the words I said on my mother's working body: politics is playing its game. The fact is, in 2009, there were no tenders that we were expecting. We were expecting them - they weren't there. And thank God it is now. The fact is, it happened now, just like it did before. And the worst part is, five minutes before the 12th, you'll get your game directions. This means, in particular, that at our regional development centre, the three municipalities agreed precisely last year, what and what we will start to acquire European funds, in terms of what was envisaged. When we did that, two minutes before the 12th year, January 5th, we received an instruction. I'll tell you in my own way, you'll understand better, those who are interested. We were planning an energy rehabilitation program for kindergartens. A new requirement has come that this call must be made in such a way that it shows that it also applies to other congregations in the region, that it is not only in one congregation. Yeah, I don't know how to fix kindergartens in the Bellies in Zagorje or Hrastnik. But if I fix them, well, I'll bring three children from Hrastnik to be a regional project - and I had to throw them out of the program. We have built an excellent primary collector with European funds. So we are looking after a pure Slovenia worth €8 million. Living logic is that the primary collector is built to make water flow everywhere and everything else that belongs to this collection. So it's from secondary collectors. So living logic is that this is a joint project. Because the primary collector doesn't need anything if we don't have any secondary ones and we have them by accident, this is a living example, in one congregation of 24, and it's logical that it's in one set. We must obtain agreement for land and so on and so forth, but it was not logical for us to obtain a building permit for each secondary collector. We have to. But this process will, for example, be very difficult for this year until June, and if we should, thank God that I have here a colleague from the congregation of Hrastnik with whom we joined this project. Because, if not, a new instruction was to be given that only a project that was wider in the region should be approved in other municipalities would not be given money for this secondary project after the construction of the suitable one. Why change three minutes before twelve? Why? And that's a general mistake. It's a general mistake, always finding out what we need, just before labor. We cannot know that the invitation to tender was issued in November and that the deadline for the application is December. Yes, how can a person do all the procedures in this bureaucracy that this country has? How to obtain all the papers, consents, possibly any building permits. As the truth is that these projects were not previously known, we have not been informed, we have not been informed in time of all the necessary elements necessary for the use of European funds. But it was also an eyewitness to the previous government, not just this one. Personally, I've had many fights with the former Minister for Local Self-Government. So it'll be clear. It's not political for me. It is my view that 4 billion and more, so almost 5 billion European funds will be used by 2013 or 2014 to make use of them. All recognised economists say that during this time of crisis, without European funding Slovenia will sink and that it will follow the path of Greece. Everybody. No matter the political colors. We used how much at that time? A billion more. Now I'm talking about exploitation, including what hasn't come yet. And as far as you're concerned, Mr. Secretary, the realisations. It's right, look, everywhere in every policy, whether it's at the local level or at the state level, prepare some foundations, prepare drafts, prepare the basics, whatever it takes to make something happen. First is the invitation to tender, then the applications for the invitation to tender, the selection, the implementation, the audit, and when it's over, it's a realisation. And it is fair to say that this 2009 realization is the result of everything that has been prepared and done in the previous mandate. And it will also hurt you when, after 2012, maybe some other political option boasts, see, in 2013, what kind of realisation we made in using European funds when it will essentially be the fruit of your work. That's right. The fact is that this recommendation is not bad and is not to be rejected. It is obvious that we are working too slowly, it is obvious that we will not be able to make use of all the necessary resources in such disputes and political involvement. The fact is that communication between the government service, between the competent ministry, and between local self-government is broken. Communication is weak, it's insufficient. The fact is that we need to hire external associates by the municipalities, or by most municipalities, in order to speak for ourselves in this chaotic situation, even in return, to monitor any calls, this country, this ministry or this Ministry without a resource, and when it has issued that we can apply in time for the use of European funds. Because we don't know ourselves, and we can't look every day, I thank God, Mrs. Golden Platesteiner has known me for a long time and she's always answered my phone. I was personally looking for information from her. Where will we go if 210 mayors, 210 municipalities go every day and ask what, where, how, when and why. Nowhere. You're gonna lose your mind. This service must inform all those beneficiaries in due time when, where and how European funds will be used and then all users can be prepared in good time. It pains me to hear that the tenders were ready to be used, but that, I don't know, 60 or 73 or 77 projects were not implemented because those interested were not prepared. Yes, of course, we cannot be prepared if we learn in November that there will be a call for something in December. But if you're going to look for a building permit and a consensus in today's bureaucratic system of this country and a bad legal system, it takes one year. Only one in a thousand complains and it lasts a year, two, three. Bye-bye! These are the truths that hurt us, and these are the truths that we are reminding us of. We're not just warning you, we've warned Mr. Zhagar. Personally, I knew I was arguing with him. We warn all those who come forward to let the devil know what they're doing, to keep them informed. Let's use those funds! Also proposals for a change in the purpose of using European funds, which are reflected in the exit strategy, show and, of course, your efforts, and Mr Minister, from yesterday's meeting I saw that you have done a great deal in the area of regionalisation, but we see that you are not resorientated because we find something from other ministries that undermines all that you have built that has been built honestly and conscientiously. When we plan, we want to introduce new regions, but at the same time, the exit strategy says how the number of public servants will decrease by 7,000. Yes, of course, it is "mission impossible" to count that we will have regions, regional councils, and red tape will decrease. It's an impossible mission, it's a lie, it's a deception. But such content also happens in these areas. Now I don't know whose fault it is. And the recommendation, whatever it is, let's all take it together as a good thing and start using it. The changes in destination that are recorded in the exit strategy are written down, but if I come to you tomorrow, Mr. Minister, you will still explain to me that there will be more money for innovation, I don't know, for education etc., etc. But I won't have anything to hold on to. I'm going to, say, bring one college to my town. How am I supposed to know now if what's written in the exit strategy is true? Whether I get European funds now or not. These are the missing communications, colleagues and colleagues. What's not ready in time, what's not coordinated, what's interresortary, what one ministry on the one hand undermines what this ministry starts with effort and wants to do with effort and commitment. It's that guilt. Here goes the blame on the competent ministry run by the Vice-President of the Government, and perhaps also on the Government as a reminder that they should also take the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service as an equal ministry. Last night, we heard fairly that this ministry is one of those few, besides the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Higher Education, development, technology that can only raise the level of economy, revive the economy so that we can live normally in this country. Yesterday it was recognized, but this government, these ministries within this government, do not give this recognition to the Ministry. They obviously do not give them the opportunity to do what is right, fair and fair to all users of these funds, but not because they do not know for themselves how much money they can give, they themselves do not know by the last moment what we are going to be able to do and what we are not going to do with European funds. That's the wrong thing to do, and that's the way it is. And I can confirm that because I've been in this work force for seven years and I've been mayor for seven years and I've been following all the calls. Finally, people just want to know, " Mayor, have you had a chance to get European funds? Did you get them? You didn't. Why not? I don't care. It's your fault." That's not true. There's not a lot of people to blame, and there's a lot of people. I support the intensity of the work of this government service and will accept, including the Slovenian National Party, the recommendation as well-intentioned. However, I clearly and loudly warn the Government that its departments, its ministries, should help, cooperate and take over the Ministry of Local Self-Government, I, too, have already told Mrs Plosteiner, the former, that I am sorry that the Minister is without a license. I'm sorry. This should also be an equivalent ministry with a title. Otherwise, the name doesn't say anything. He's doing the job. But it has and must have the same effect. The recommendation will be supported and we hope and we want to make use of all the resources, and time is running out. And we missed a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye to the Minister, both of your coworkers. Of course, we are talking about important issues for Slovenia, the development theme in the future, but which needs to be tackled less, in our opinion, with political levers and, of course, with more professional arguments. In our opinion, the proposal for a recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009 and 2013, which we are considering on the initiative of a group of Members, is unfounded for a number of reasons, and certainly for two of the following reasons. First time. In January 2010, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, a competent intermediary body for the implementation of the priority direction of regional development, published two additional instruments for the successful implementation of the programme this is a simple and simple fact, namely the third public call for the selection of operations for the priority direction of development of border areas with Croatia under the operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials between 2009 and 2013. Secondly, a public call for applications for the co-financing of priority operations, regional development programmes, development priorities, the development of operational programme regions for strengthening regional development potentials for the previously mentioned period. This makes 203 million euros available, almost as much as the realisation by the end of 2009 in all operations, on the basis of all six calls made so far. We reiterate and point out that all available resources from 2007-2013 amounted to EUR 585 million, and only EUR 294.7 million have been allocated in the four tenders so far, indicating the volume of the public call issued this month. And this is a concrete action and it's important. Another reason is that, in preparing a public call for applications for co-financing of operations for the development of the regions, it has determined that, as eligible projects in the fifth instrument, it excludes road infrastructure. As you are aware, in view of the different development problems across the regions, the operational programme contains certain restrictions on the very purpose of consumption. Therefore, due planning should be made for distribution by purpose, taking into account, in particular, the use for purposes of achieving effects and results, which have also been previously agreed and also endorsed in the operational programme. In view of the implementation of the programme so far, we find that the purpose of transport infrastructure achieves an appropriate level of consumption, and this is why the purpose of the January public call, the so-called fifth instrument, does not contain this purpose. For these reasons, we assess that there is no longer a need to adopt the proposed recommendation, which is also recognised in its position by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the views presented so far, public views have been able to see the issue of the inability of the current government to issue calls, since the previous government has published them by number more than it has so far. That's definitely not true. In doing so, we would like to point out the following fact that the content, the sum of resources exhausted, is more important than the number and form. The former Minister has, in fact, published tenders almost following the current lane, but without the relevant procedures and procedures of the European Union. I must say that in many Slovene municipalities there has been a great deal of uncertainty, discomfort, there has also been information that we can also prepare ourselves in municipalities for a black scenario, that this already spent and exhausted resources will have to be returned, because we have gone too far in the home, recklessly and did not comply with the rules of the game prescribed by the European Union. Therefore, I think it is extremely important and commendable that this government has dealt with this problem, regulated the situation in the area of calls, procedures and documentation. As the responsible master of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, they did not rush in with calls to deepen the problems and mistakes, but first they did their job and prepared the basis necessary for the implementation of such calls. And I could give a general, perhaps a political assessment that, in a one-year mandate, this government has done something in terms of drawing on European funds that the previous has failed in the entire mandate. We have put the matter on the right legal footing, so that no one will be afraid of the funds acquired in this country. And that's the problem. We did not talk about this much in Slovenia, but it was a dilemma that Slovenia lost a large part of these funds and returned them. This problem has now been resolved and the invitation to tender has also been duly published. In accordance with these facts, we will support the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the proposal for a recommendation regarding the unpublished public tender for the Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service for the period 2009-2013 is not suitable for further consideration. However, I am pleased, and in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support part of the debate that the Ministry, the Minister himself and the professional colleagues will take note of the specific problems and problems that we have in the municipalities by obtaining these funds, and this story has been properly opened by my predecessor, colleague Bogdan Barovic, because earlier, for example, there was no immediate need for building permits, which is now a new argument and we have legislation in many areas that poses many obstacles to the absorption of funds. It would be right and I am sure that this debate today will also be heard by the new Minister for Space and the Environment. In this country, we have amended spatial legislation by various governments, and the outcome and final recovery are poor. Procedures from year to year are more difficult, more complicated. Today there was also something to be heard about the possible construction and rehabilitation of schools and kindergartens, certainly necessary and important, and from the representatives of the Government and from the Minister himself during today's debate we also expect answers, how and to what extent, especially under what conditions, these regional funds can also be used to regulate this area, which is still important and necessary in Slovenia at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Well-known colleagues and colleagues, present Mr Minister and employees of the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development that there is no longer a basis for adopting recommendations with a proposal for the content of the proposal, so that these recommendations are no longer a suitable basis for further consideration, in particular due to two facts. As has been said several times by colleagues today, the Government for Local Self-Government issued a 5th public call for priority - regional development programmes on 29 January 2010. On 8 January, this service also published a 3rd call for priority for the development of border areas with Croatia. In 2009, over €900 million in various operations, 10 calls and 7 direct confirmations of operations under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions totalling €415,6 million, 20 calls for proposals and 24 direct confirmations of operations under the Operational Programme totalling €192 million and €315.2 million of direct confirmation of operations under the ROPI Framework Programme were confirmed. The implementation of cohesion policy has also been followed by anti-crisis measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The approved instruments, however, have been particularly supported by the activities of companies to deal successfully with the problems brought about in 2009. However, despite the fact that the 5th call for priority for the Regional Development Programme was not supported by 45 development and investment projects worth €104.75 million, 231 purchases of new technology equipment, a total of €34.5 million under the P4 call for the Enterprise Fund, 8 centres of excellence totalling €77.5 million, 21 regional development projects for e-total development and e-services, a EUR 7.3 million programme of financial engineering instruments and a programme for the implementation of the Guarantee Fund with interest rate subsidy, a guarantee for bank loans, an interest rate subsidy for the period 2009 to 2013, under which the European Cohesion Policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia account for €42.7 million have been paid to the Guarantee Fund. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the fact that Slovenia improved the use of European funds in 2009. She made this clear at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and also presented the mag. Andrea Jerina, Secretary of State. Of course, there have been several important facts in this regard, for which it is right that I should also mention them as rapporteur for the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The findings were: the Government’s Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service did not properly verify certain projects in 2007 and 2008 and the criteria were not allocated. For example, the Government has issued a decision approving projects before the Commission has even decided to do so. These are facts, and we must not simply forget these statements and mention them in any other way. Also, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that in 2010, European funding will be even better and more successful than it was in 2009. We therefore support the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, since the recommendations of the applicants for the publication of the 5th invitation to tender and the 3rd call for the development of border areas with Croatia are no longer a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Janko Weber has the word. Excuse me, excuse me! Mr Pukšič has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much, on behalf of the proponents. Mr Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber and perhaps where he is listening, said today that the previous government has negotiated many things in the field of operational programmes with the Brussels administration, that is, to draw on EUR 5 billion, which has done a good job and a great deal. He also admitted here for the first time and said that the previous government had also issued a number of calls in that very short time. Ah, the minister's just arrived. Minister, you yourself said that it was for 336 million, apparently, signed contracts, but you misread the proponents to mix pears and apples. Minister, that may be the case, but it will be difficult for you to tell me as a technique, and as a technician, I don't understand you. However, if it is a political pamphlet, a speech by a secretary of state, it is completely understandable to me, because it is blabbering everything and maligning the country only because of its personal interests; that is another thing. Minister, I did not mix pears and apples, not because I read the material, the material on European spending in Slovenia, 20 January 2009. Then you'll have to demente the material and demarcate your predecessors, that is, Minister Plosteiner. It reads: "Incentives for 2007-2013: For the 2007-2013 programming period so far, they have been awarded or certified for a good 1.5 billion European funds." I talked about it, so don't talk about mixing pears and apples. And you, Minister, have written under the document produced under your deadlines the Report on the acceleration of cohesion policy funds, in line with the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy: "For the 2007-2013 programming period, from the start of the programming period until the end of 2009," I stress once again, it went until 2008, you are writing here until 2009, so for a year at the same time, which is ok. If we made a dot here, so confirmed operations, then I'd start digging, whether that means confirmed operations, signed contracts. But you go on to say: "...European funds, which amount to so much, that is 42.8% of all rights of use of the programming period. That amount refers to both confirmed and published calls for proposals and to projects and activities that are confirmed directly." Minister, yes, I didn't mix pears and apples. We talked about 1.5 billion, now we're talking about 1.8 billion, and that's exactly what you said yourself, that it was signed in the period of the Pahor government of 336 million, which is exactly what I said. But then this report says the following. See what you can do even with exact knowledge like math, how many manipulations, how many untruths, not to say anything worse about it. "Progress in 2009 is great, as it represents an increase of 78.5%." Well, if it represents a 78.5% increase, let's say 75% of a billion and a half is a billion. This means that if this were true, then the Pahor's government would have to tender EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 1 billion and a half would have 4 billion written-off and already certified funds, which would be good. In the fourth year of programming, we're in the fourth year. Of course, it is only after these tenders that the following appropriations are allocated, that is to say that the applicants who applied for the invitation to tender find that something has been allocated to them. Then there will be the signing of a contract between the applicant and the operator of the operational programme. When this is done when the contract is signed, the applicant may, in fact, go on invitation to tender to select the contractor. And he's got to have a building permit for all of this. If he doesn't have what colleague Barovic has already said, things can stop in two, three years. Well, when this is done, when the implementation is completed, there will be a payment by the Slovenian budget, i.e. the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, you can certify and demand reimbursement from the European Community. But, look, Minister, in this same document, you wrote that by 2010, 540 million euros should be drained. Now, personally, I do not think you will have this problem, so EUR 540 million will be recovered from the European Community into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Because if not, under rule N+3, of course, if we don't go through with it, it's going to go down. I don't think you're going to have this problem, but you're going to have the problem of 2011 to drain 1 billion 095, cumulatively speaking, and in 2012 - 1 billion 600 million euros. Now, again, the data arising from the OPs arising from the allocation of funds, etc., and you yourself in this report state that 2012 will in fact be critical because these operational programmes or funds will not be reimbursed from the Brussels Treasury to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the last time everything else is done. But why? It's '09. It's because in 2009, when you didn't make the calls, I'm not reading to you now, because you're still in this place for a while, but of course, the government, and the government, the vice-president of the government. I told you what he did on December 4, 2008. He hasn't even sat well in a ministerial chair yet, and he went to Brussels to tear down what had been put up before, and there he was told again, the Commissioner told him again, "Hey boy, chill out a little, cool off." And we said what and how about a month ago when we were in Slovenia. And because of that, Minister Gjerkesh, your concern that it will not be used is justified. Justifiable. And if today's debate moves this government and gives you maybe the credit of a real interlocutor in the government, as colleague Barovic said, then OK. Of course, all the other chat rooms, and some of them don't even make sense to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister, Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Mr Puksic. Of course, we took your recommendations as well-meaning. Unfortunately, however, they refer to the facts already carried out. Perhaps you will recall that, three months ago, when I took up the post, I looked at, and promised certain priorities to be implemented by the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the first priority was the 5th public, then we were still talking about the call, now we are talking about the call. That's what I've been saying for the first month, and that's what I've done. So it was published for the first month of January. Of course, I have to repeat over and over again why it took half a year since it was announced and when all the purposes and all the costs were known and said were justified, which will, and so on and all the changes that are not otherwise great, but in certain parts are why it took six months. And once again, I'm going to say that it's going to be even clearer. The reasons were objective. We had an opinion, three times the opinion of two different independent bodies, the Court of Auditors and the Office for Budgetary Control, which said what needed to be completed. We've made a response report. We have completed the procedures, we have clarified the uncertainties, we have completed the legal bases that were necessary, we have aligned this with the European Commission and only when we have cleared up the first four public calls, when we have assured that these funds will not have to be returned to the congregations as we have heard today that they could also happen, we have gone into the 5th public call. And in the meantime, as the government does, it's probably a discretionary right of the government to coordinate how it works. On the basis of our internal communications, we do not need to conclude some major conclusions, as we may hear them here. The following case, which was said to have not been published, was particularly that the economy suffered in 2009 as a result of this. That's not true. That's not true. The calls we have been preparing for European cohesion policy have been geared towards supporting the crisis actions of the Republic of Slovenia and the activities of businesses to alleviate problems and to a healthy exit from the crisis. In addition, we have focused on various forms of employment subsidies, co-financing of employee training and support for companies in maintaining development and research. 45 development investment projects worth €104.8 million, the call for proposals was launched in 2009. 231 purchases of new technology equipment totalling €34.5 million, a call for excellence centres worth €77.5 million, and so on, not to mention, over €900 million in 2009. However, we need to know that European cohesion policy is not just a policy for the development of regions. If I touch further on the indications that procedures have been substantially modified in a particular part, in the fifth public call, they have not been. The guidelines were already known, and we have now written them in a public call, as directed by independent cohesion authorities. But the procedures have been known before. However, let us not begin to discuss the conceptual problem of the development priorities of the regions where we are talking, whether a particular project is appropriate as a priority for the further development of a particular region or municipality, or whether municipalities agree on different quotas. These things are not part of this institutional organisation, and also institutions that are responsible for the development of the region within this framework will receive or will receive clear instructions accordingly on how and what to do in the fifth public call to avoid future problems that have also followed from this title. I am therefore pleased that some debaters have stressed the regional importance of this development priority. And, if I conclude, of course, you probably didn't listen to me at the beginning, I am giving credit to the previous government and also to Minister Žagar, that he was taking the lead in negotiating these European cohesion funds, that he started the process and that, as far as I know him personally, I know that he was doing it, not for the sake of himself or the government, but for the good of Slovenia, just as this government is doing now. However, these procedures are complex and there is no need for them to be elaborated at the outset of the publication of the invitation to tender. This simply does not mean that we are negotiating for €4.2 billion that this money is already ours. Yeah, that's not true! It's not ours either when we sign a contract. It is ours when we restore it from the European budget, when we justify it with reports and appropriate procedures. Mr. Puksich. As for these numbers, because we're both techniques, I still think the same thing about pears and apples. Let us see the item of the Confirmed Operation, which we must separate from the Signed Treaties. Confirmed cumulative operations were performed on day 31. 12. 2008 at a billion 157 million and so on, to state 31. 12. 2009 is 2 billion 61 million and so on. While contracts were signed on day 31. 12. 2008 in the amount of 862 million, I am talking about the EU and Slovenian work together, in all cases, while this was on the day 31. 12. 2009 at a billion 552 million. And I think these differences are clear, even in our report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Yes, please, Mr Pukšič, as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Minister, you've just said the situations described and confirmed. Both government reports indicate that the operations were confirmed and signed. Both of them say, once a billion and 500 times, it's a billion and 800. So, signed and confirmed. Of course, there could have been more confirmed operations. So, in the first report by 2008, it was clearly more signed than confirmed if it says that it was together for a billion and a half. Because, first they have to be signed, then they can be confirmed. That's right. And that's why you could confirm them. But what will be confirmed in 2010 if there were no invitations to tender in 2009?Oh, my God! And there's a difference. Then talking about such stupid percentage comparisons is very unfair. You will not convince, at least not those who know what this is about, nor the Slovenian public, why there was no invitation to tender for a year, as you say. Well, that's not true. In May 2009, the Minister announced that the call would already take place in June. But, of course, all the time back there was a story from December 4 when Mrs Andrej Jerina and Minister Gaspari were, but without Plosteiner, in Brussels and when they wanted to transfer all three operational programmes to three individual ministries, which I also said in the opening act. I have made it clear that we are still aware and aware that the three operational programmes are worth 4.2 billion and that we are not just talking about the operational programme, the regional development potentials and the so-called 4th item, the Development of the Regions. The decision was so prepared, although it was excruciating that this call had not taken place, despite the fact that both the legal experts and the audit committee within the Brussels administration had been coordinated in order to make a request for reimbursement of 296 million. Even when all of this was done, the secretary of state, who took the phone, called and told her that they were still in line and that the letter they received was wrong and that they would receive a new letter. The letter was confirmed by the ministerial team. Well, it's not true, and it doesn't have to be defended, Minister, it's none of your business. Your concern and your concern is that the 2011 and 2012 report will not say that unused funds have occurred. Your concern, Minister, and responsibility is that a billion 100 million of the European budget will be reimbursed to the Slovenian budget in 2011 and in 2012 666 million. And this is your concern and your responsibility. Not why Andrea Jerina did this because she was working out of her personal interests, as we discussed. With regard to this last invitation to tender, the fifth [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, just like you said, before it was a call, now it's a call. So, it was a mistake of the previous government to write the "signature." And that's what the Court of Auditors found out that she didn't write "call." I mean, please! Of course, you also mentioned the right to VAT in this call. Minister, tell us how your own, and you are responsible for this, your SVLR people walk around and explain in regions what needs to be done, and they say out loud, "You know what, the legitimate VAT that we wrote in there, you know, you'd better stay away from it, because we don't even know how to do it ourselves." They do not even know that local communities or beneficiaries are either flat-rate or flat-rate, so they are not beneficiaries of VAT returns. And then they say themselves, but you know, we're a little bit more so that we did something and it's not. And to say that the excluded infrastructure is justified because already so much infrastructure has been built, it is simply not true. I think 34% on that 300 million. On these last 300 million, which is not, you did not allow, because I probably do not know why, but you keep those 80 million euros, 90 million euros, which make it difficult to implement projects that have been confirmed in the regions, even in the environmental infrastructure, because it will easily leave the municipalities with channel 2 for 100, 200 000 euros that they cannot do, but if the whole project, including the building permits and everything else, could be allowed. No, this should not, even more, allow the municipalities or the funds that have been used in the previous four calls, such as saving, saving, saving because there was an invitation, contractors have applied, you have chosen the lowest, you have 100,000 euros left, and now you cannot take advantage of it in this quota that you have tendered, and you cannot take advantage of what has already been announced. In short, incomprehensible and here you will be responsible, Minister, for certain things. There is no way that municipalities would be returning because of the procedure, if payment was made by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, then the municipality has nothing to pay back, then you approved the projects, then your exclusive and final task is a claim for reimbursement from the Brussels Treasury. And here in the area of the fact that Mrs Jerina did not allow this through her intervention is a first-class political scandal, the government should have removed it a long time ago. But most importantly, it is a first-class economic scandal that has been made and, of course, has led the country to real trouble in 2011 and 2011 in drawing from the Brussels treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dr. Gjerkesh has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, so is Mr Puksic, and you are right, European cohesion policy is a process for which I am responsible as Minister and Service of the Government of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy with me. But that's why I do it so that the processes run well. It is in my interest that we work as professionally as possible and try as little as possible here or at all, to involve various political pressures or influences professionally, we want to work. I have an expert team. Two colleagues are sitting next to me today, who are top experts in this field and no politicians. That's why I don't see any reason why you keep repeating this problem that's been solved. We solved this problem in the government. In the end, I saved him with a call to Brussels, and the matter was resolved within three days. It hasn't been six months, it hasn't been keeping some money, I don't know, like you explain, but it did, if I say so myself, to the communication noise. This came completely at the beginning of my term of office, it came with the desire to help speed up this deal with the European Commission, and I may have to repeat once again that the matter is closed and I do not see why we are talking about it now for two months after that. As far as your comment is concerned, no part of the funds are available. We have just had to worry about achieving the objectives set out in the operational programme, retaining a certain part of the resources because regions, institutions in the regions, and above all the world of the region, have an autonomous right to choose projects that they think are accelerating regional development and that we are influencing this selection of regions is not true. In the 5th public call, the procedure is indeed a two-step process. First, the implementation plans are sent to the government service, where we give an opinion. But we give opinions in this direction whether or not the objectives of the operational programme are being pursued. We give no guidance to the region, but to the opinion and to this region if this opinion provides for any addition, whether or not they take note. Therefore, it is not a matter of defining projects in Ljubljana that will be carried out in a particular region. And the numbers we talked about, Mr Pukšič. You want to know? Look, you're talking about signed and confirmed, etc. We need to know that the funds are distributed on the basis of calls and on the basis of direct confirmations, in particular major projects. And so, written down, that's why we also have separate confirmed operations here that can involve both. Confirmed operations may be public tenders, direct confirmations, and therefore the text also reads as it says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! It is certainly of utmost importance for Slovenia that we become as effective as possible in drawing on European funds, for this is, after all, one of the only and best quality resources that we can obtain to promote economic growth and, of course, also build infrastructure and everything that is required in accordance with operational programmes in specific areas. However, this item of the agenda also has to point out very clearly the fact that very many decisions were issued between 2007 and 2008, including a number of calls, but these decisions on the allocation of funds were issued without prior review, or whether all the criteria for the investor to obtain these funds have been met. And this was pointed out by the Court of Auditors and this was also the reason why the Government had to spend a very long time in 2009 to first review all the back-up procedures and then also try to design a call for an effective way forward. It is also true that in 2007 and 2008 not a single euro was obtained from the European budget, which means that the funds were allocated only from the State budget. However, the requests to the European budget were obviously not made on the grounds that not all the procedures were clearly properly carried out and that audit was urgently necessary. What I would like to point out in particular, however, is the fact that some of the procedures are interpreted by some officials in their own way, we can say otherwise. In fact, when, in the same ministry, part of the officials approves the programme, the project is made, everything is prepared for you to apply for a grant decision, then, at that final stage, another official concludes: "Sorry, this application is not justified in drawing on cohesion funds." We need to avoid such situations literally in the future 100%. This is really not appropriate, i.e. how to explain that a project that started in 2004 cannot reach a conclusion in 2010, because the official finds that it does not meet the conditions for inclusion in cohesion policy. Here I am specifically referring to the Ministry of Environment. It's not so much a problem on the scales, it's not so much a problem in the regulations, it's the obvious problem with how an official allows himself to understand, I'll put it mildly, a single criterion. Even these things are now being resolved during this period, they will be cleared up, and simply those projects that do not meet the projects will not be financed from those funds of the European Union that do not meet the criteria. This is very important, for, in fact, we will be in a situation where we will have to recover these funds, even though we have exhausted some funds. But the question is, what about those projects that have actually already been funded, and now it is found that they do not meet the conditions - how can this problem be solved? I think that this is another major task which will have to be dealt with in depth by the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and, above all, to discuss with the specific Ministry of Field Affairs why this has ever occurred. I hope that, let's say, one of the concrete projects, this is the river bank of Krka 2, the second phase, will finally come to that stage, that we will be given this year's decision by the Ministry of the Environment to draw on funds as well as the Government's services for local self-government and regional policy, and that an invitation to build a communication network can be made. How cautious we must be when dealing with individual applications, but I will also try to illustrate the case of vinjets. In the process of building motorways, we have changed the toll system and the European Commission, because this toll system was contrary to European regulations, has retained European means of building motorways. One year it was used to prove that the Ministry of Transport had also tried to change tolling with vignettes that these funds had finally been released in the European Union. So congratulations to the Ministry of Transport, that it was possible to harmonise everything that had to be coordinated before the introduction of the vineyards, not when they had just been introduced. And these are the problems that the previous government has actually experienced in implementing cohesion policy and drawing on European funds. Some have already been successfully resolved, some have been resolved, and unfortunately 2009 has also been largely targeted by the fact that the call for regional development and for border areas has arrived at a one-year delay, and we hope that it will be so successful now in this period, when it is actually announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Have a nice hello again! First of all, I would like to say that there is actually no real minister sitting here today, given the complications that have arisen, his colleague Gaspari and his deputy should be sitting here. We also listened to and read about it in public. Where and in what way this problem arises when blocking the use of these funds. And it must be said that the former Minister of Mag. Plosteiner and this minister of development have certainly done everything they could to prevent this blockade from happening. So it is regrettable that we do not have those who have cooked this problem here. However, once this problem has become a problem for the two ministers, the problem of the government is here. And Pahor's government has been solving this problem for a year, just like Falcona, and in about the same way. The State Secretary at the Gaspari Ministry, who, when she was still in the Court of Auditors, revised the funds and there found that there were some illegalities in the execution of these calls, now that she had moved into the government line, she tried to put an end to these cases before the European Commission's disability, and then, when that was no longer possible, she, of course, gave in to pressure, even within the Government. But if something was really wrong, if there was really something wrong with it, then believe that the European Commission would not release these funds. Because bureaucracy is even stronger there than it is in Slovenia, but it is already too strong in Slovenia. And if there are indications that individual projects were not in the regional development programmes, but the funds for them were approved because they were confirmed by the saints of the regions, i.e. the same level that confirms the regional development programmes, that there were reasons for this blockade to take place for a year, then, excuse me, funny things. Why must bureaucracy in Ljubljana decide on these funds? For once, we really don't have any provinces. If they did, it would be right to have these funds located in the provinces, and people in those environments should decide on these matters. There is no need for this matter to be decided by a bureaucrat who, after some formal salary, is above all. Nevertheless, I think that this is one experience which is also valuable for this government, because if again a similar situation occurs in one of the areas of the use of European funds, then believe me, Slovenia will not take advantage of what it has negotiated in the time of the previous government. If there was previously a achievement that much more funds had been negotiated than was expected and that we had made available during this period of 5 billion, and now in seven years this government is not capable of using and pumping it, I have to say here, but something bad is very wrong. I spoke earlier about regional development calls. And with regard to these calls, the Government notes in its opinion, namely the Pahorje government, that four plus two have been published for cross-border cooperation during this period. And that's true. Otherwise, it's written incorrectly until 31st. 12. 2009 because we know that these were published by 31. 12. 2008 and that no invitation to tender was published in this area in 2009. That's true because we're talking about this 5th, which was published in January of the month. With regard to the other calls you have mentioned, centres of excellence and so on, there will be a debate, I hope, at another meeting of the National Assembly, when we see how it is possible that all the intelligence co-financed through centres of excellence is located in Ljubljana, and in the rest of Slovenia obviously does not. How is that possible? How can it be that, when we say that individual areas in Slovenia are behind schedule to allocate additional funds to raise intellectual potential, only the centre. But this is not the subject of today's debate. I have limited myself to that part which is undeniable and unequivocal and speaks of the fact that this call, which the former Minister has expressly announced by 30 June, was not in 2009. And what was lost can no longer be saved. For this reason, too, poor funding from the rebalancing that the Pahorov government has repaired twice in 2009 and that, according to its own European budget forecasts in 2009, should draw more than €362 million from it. 155 million were exhausted, which means more than 200 million less than she set herself this goal. And that's exactly the number we're talking about in the 5th call. Therefore, the point of this debate should be, above all, that these matters are not to be dealt with and it is inappropriate to criminalise things back then, which have been good and have enabled over 400 projects across this country and that from this assumption they are also trying to block further the use of money available and could further encourage development in Slovenia in many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it. Mr. László Göncz. Excuse me. In front of Mr Gönch, Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! I don't know if we're listening here or not. Who criminalizes the actions of the previous government? I gave the previous government credit for what she did, but she didn't do everything. And it also had to save something for the current government, because at the time it didn't have to do everything, because by the rules we had to do the whole process, which is essentially money-pulling, that is, payback if we didn't have to do it under rule N plus 2, N plus 3. Now we have to, and at the time it did not have to be completed, and now it has to be. And it took us a while to finish it. Therefore, no one criminalises this, but I say that in some part I also lend credit to Minister Zhagar and the previous government because things have been done well. That's why I don't understand that there's a blockade going on here that hasn't happened. In the three months I've been a minister, I've done things the way I've done them. And I think that I have brought relatively successful things to an end, but they have been launched before, because even the fifth public call cannot be prepared within three months, it is impossible to prepare legal bases, it is not possible to agree with the European Commission to correct the programme itself, which was required in accordance with the instructions, the Court of Auditors and the Office for Budgetary Control twice. And here is the reason why Minister Plosteiner was unable to keep her promise and publish in June 2009 the fifth invitation to tender or appeal, because at that time all things were not even known which need to be completed. And this is not only on behalf of, as I have heard, it is not only on behalf of the call for tender now, but it is a matter of deeper substantive issues and the uncertainties that we have come up with. One of these ambiguities is also the explicit writing of the criteria in the public call, that was the apparent of the Court of Auditors, and on this basis also the two-step procedure in the fifth public call. But we have not changed these procedures in a global way, but we stick to them because they were already agreed in 2006, but they may not have been carried out to such an extent and therefore also the observations of the Court of Auditors and the Office for Budgetary Control. This is the first thing that is constantly repeated that was a blockage of pumping that was not there, and the second thing is that pumping is bad. Everything a man does can be better, I admit it. But the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and I, as Minister, are trying to conduct these procedures optimally in order to maximize the amount of money that was negotiated in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazslo Gönch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The context of the current debate gives me the impression that this debate can also contribute to a certain degree in the future to the more successful implementation of the calls for proposals and also to the drawing of funds from the European funds. The rapporteurs drew attention to the serious problems that were clearly taken into account and specific cases that they would not now repeat, particularly on the part of the municipalities. In certain cases, unfortunately, the fact that some things will probably not be rectified will hold back. Various assessments and opinions regarding the unpublished calls also indicated that difficulties could be identified in the process, both by the State and by the municipalities, within the overall procedure, and that this should undoubtedly be rectified. Nevertheless, I think it is important to stress this, and it may be very important at this point that those arguments put forward by the Government regarding this recommendation are quite valid. From a professional point of view, they find it difficult to challenge, from a political point of view, the matter is different, but now it would not go down. I will not repeat concrete data, as I have said before, but it must be important and decisive in final decision-making that this call for proposals has recently been issued, making almost the amount available, and the debate so far has shown something similar to the level of realisation by the end of 2009 in all operations on the basis of all the calls so far. This information is of crucial importance to me and I think that, in terms of the full content of this issue as well. Despite certain reasonable concerns and a different opinion, it is only necessary to believe that the Government has managed to remedy to a certain extent certain errors and the greatest inconsistencies previously pointed out by the competent state institutions. Let us hope that this is actually a release for the part of the financial possibilities which unfortunately were not available due to this failure. Well, let's hope so. I agree with the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development that European funds should be drawn up on the basis of the 5th call for proposals as quickly as possible and that a new law on general regional development should be adopted as possible. This has already been discussed in various forums and working bodies, and I believe that this act is indeed crucial. Let us hope that it will also be adopted in such a form that it will actually contribute indirectly to the resolution of such problems. In accordance with the above, I will support the position of the parent working body in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The opposition makes sure that there are a number of extraordinary plenary meetings and extraordinary meetings of working bodies in addition to regular work in the National Assembly. In addition, the human party predicts a new interpolation. I have no objection to extraordinary fairs, but if there is hyperproduction and substantive duplication, it can turn against all of us. Hyperactivity is usually also counterproductive. The topic of drawing on European funds was already the subject of a January extraordinary meeting proposed by the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party. We will also discuss this further on Friday, when the Slovenian exit strategy for 2010-2013 will be discussed on the agenda. Already in January, in response to the SDS proposals for combating the economic and financial crisis, the government answered these questions in depth. In addition, last March the government presented what measures it is and what it will prepare to draw on European funds more effectively. It is right to look at the realisation of the funds received from the European Union in the state budget during the previous government. Slovenia was not successful in the realisation of the funds received from the European Union already in 2005, as the realisation was only 62% of the estimated 483 million euros or 181 million euros less or 0.66% less of the gross social product. In 2006, only 77% of the planned European Union funds were absorbed by the Republic of Slovenia. In 2007, however, the revenue generated from the European Union's funds was 40% lower and 234 million lower than the planned budget. For this reason, the Republic of Slovenia has paid more to the European budget than it has earned from it. So she was a net payer. The drawback of European Union funds in 2007 was also poor because the previous European Union government had only forwarded the necessary documents for European funds, namely the National Strategic Framework 2007-2013, the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials, the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources and the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure 2007-2013. The European Union should send those documents to the Government, if not earlier in 2006, before the start of the new financial perspective 2007-2013. And she sent it out during this financial perspective. In the area of cohesion policy, implementation was only 31.69% in 2007. The Court of Auditors found that such a small realisation in the area of structural funds is not only due to the dynamics of drawing, but also due to inadequate planning based on unrealistic assumptions. The European Commission also drew attention to the inadequate planning of payments of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the worst drawback from the European Union in 2008 was that Slovenia managed to absorb only 46% of the planned funds in the state budget. As a result, the country was an even bigger net payer in the European budget than it had been a year before, as the state had allocated 64.7 million euros more than it had received, even though the government had planned a surplus of EUR 407 million at the time. In 2009, the realisation of European funds is significantly greater than in previous years. The Republic of Slovenia was therefore a net recipient of EUR 155 million in the State budget in 2009. Better implementation in 2009 is certainly the result of the measures taken to accelerate the absorption of funds from the European Union. By the end of 2008, the new government had started taking measures to accelerate the absorption of cohesion policy funds. In addition to the potential for EU funding and media campaigns launched by the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, a supplement to the Public Finance Act has been adopted, as recommended by the European Commission. It has enabled the reallocation of funds from projects for projects that could be carried out in the current year. In 2009, however, the Government introduced systemic changes in cohesion policy, which significantly improve the conditions for project operators. These include the introduction of advance payments for beneficiaries, the introduction of spot payments for investment projects in municipalities, the introduction of lump sums, the introduction of VAT as a reasonable cost, the simplification of the reporting and control system, the removal of obstacles and the improvement of the whole system in terms of the provision of reimbursements from the budget of the European Union and the acceleration of inflows to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also reflected in the gradual increase of inflows from cohesion policy to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, to improve the functioning of the cohesion policy information system, to ensure closer substantive cooperation with intermediate bodies and to provide assistance in their work and to carry out activities in the field of cohesion policy. As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote on its first anniversary, it has introduced changes in European cohesion policy that are difficult, since almost all ministries are involved in this policy, while also interfering with the area of finance and tax policy. Nevertheless, the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and other departments, has managed to introduce radical changes with the aim of simplifying the system and making it more user-friendly and at the same time more efficient, while at the same time still satisfying all the requirements of the European Union. These measures are already being paid, as in 2009, as I mentioned earlier, the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the European Union budget realised a net budget surplus of €155 million, €709,000,591. So the first surplus in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia during the European financial perspective 2007-2013. As can be seen from the response of the Government, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the decisions of the home labour body and, as has already been said many times today, all the reasons for the adoption of recommendations, as proposed by the group of opposition Members, have been removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we are discussing this issue because it is very important for further development and also for better use of these resources. We can say that, on the basis of all these pressures or opening up the subject matter, there was a call for cross-border projects on 8 January and a fifth call for proposals at the end of January. That's positive. But when we watch things happen, we can be quite concerned. The operational programme has three sub-assemblies: strengthening regions, human resources, environmental and transport issues. On other committees, we are discussing the topic of placement in a place where these projects are mostly dated to national spatial, local and other plans somewhere in 2013. This means that this government has already given up on environmental and transport projects, as follows from the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European affairs, where certain projects that have been incorporated in national development projects in cooperation with the regions, with the holy regions, are said to be with those who know the problem in this area and are now in some way under great question or have already been deleted from these projects. In particular: modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes - deleted from national development projects. Similarly, we are talking about an additional highway program because we know that we still have some sections unfinished. We are also talking about economic centres, which are under great scrutiny, although some have started to take place in an appropriate way, especially the In Prime project in Goriška, but this is also under question. The mountain tourist centre is deleted from these national projects. It is interesting, however, that the modernisation of the EHealth health system is accelerating, it is said to be a project that does not bring some major new jobs, and it brings some big profits to the information society that will run the project. The same system of e-justice. So, projects that say that a lot of resources can be put into some, I'm not going to say non-productive in the long run, but I strongly doubt that this will create and develop a whole area of our country. That's part of the story. Now I would like to turn to this key one, which my colleague Pukšič has talked about a lot, we have read a lot in the media. When I read the committee's magnetogram, which dealt with this subject, I wonder in some way how this government will continue to work, given that it is a mag. Andreja Jerina, who was previously an auditor at the Court of Auditors, in her implementation on the Committee, lists some facts that I will also quote and remind you of some things that I find very problematic if they hold, as Mrs Jerina also points out. And she also apologizes in this debate for speaking simplisticly, and I will use this too, is said to quote this. She says: "In all the developed world, there is a basic rule that says: if you want to acquire public funds, you need to submit an account or a charter, and this account must reflect for what purposes you want to acquire public funds." That's probably what we all agree on. And he says, "This also applies to the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia as well as to the budget of the European Union." Nice. And then he goes on to say, quote: "The problem that arose in 2007 and continued in 2008 and half or three quarters in 2009, was that to this account or charter on the basis of which funds could be obtained from the European budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could not send to the European Commission on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance." And then answer why. And he says, "For the purposes of the Court of Auditors' findings, which revised the implementation of the budget in 2007 and 2008" is said to the same person. "The Court of Auditors in its report" as it says, I will just quote, and I quote that it will not be a problem, "found out," this is based on a summary, "that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically the Government Service for Local Self-Government or its Chairman," this is former Minister Žagar, "in 2007 and 2008 in implementing the budget violated the rules." That's what we all understand, it says, "break regulations," states. It says: "...the specific rule relating to the Regulation on the Implementation of Procedures for the Use of European Cohesion Policy Funds in the 2007-2008 programming period." And he says, "This regulation is a national regulation issued under the Government Act," says it is not a European regulation. "As a result of the preamble and introductory articles, the enforcement system provides for a whole series of European directives in the area of structural funds." And what did the Court of Auditors find? "that the Government Service did not properly verify projects in 2007 and 2008 and has allocated funds without checking them properly." It continues to say - this for those mayors who are sitting here: "There were no criteria in the publication of the invitation to tender - which means that the projects were selected without criteria - it was not ensured that the project that would achieve the greatest impact for taxpayers was chosen; that the service issued project approval decisions before the Commission decided to do so and that it did not verify compliance with the rules." This speaks for the whole period 2007-2008. This means that all these payments were unlawful on the basis of these tenders. That's what the Court of Auditors says. And I wonder, because I see some of my fellow mayors who know how these things have been going on, how much work has been put into having all the documentation delivered on a specific call and why there is a need for specific projects. And I wonder how an official can put such theories on the basis of one's opinion. It is said that the tenders were without criteria that it was not ensured that a new project or some added value would be made possible by this taxpayer and so on. I think it is the responsibility of the worlds of the regions and those who have decided on certain projects. And someone from an official point of view from Ljubljana or Brussels cannot assess what a project in a particular region means. But what bothers me most is that he's talking about not having any criteria. "If we look at it," he says, "a little bit more specifically, all of these findings in the Court of Auditors' report for 2008 refer to 1st, 2nd and 3rd invitation to tender, and in individual specific cases there are also irregularities that I will mention in addition only a few. For example," he then says, "that certain invitations in the municipality of Shenčur, for the village of Trnovo," speaks of the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec and so on and says that "they were not foreseen, they were not entitled to the allocation of funds." I now ask the current minister and the current government whether they have received these funds in 2009 if the Court of Auditors finds that they are not entitled to these funds. And he goes on to say: "On the basis of this, because of the arrangements in force in the European Union and the arrangements in force in the Republic of Slovenia, starting with the Public Finance Act..." Here we can touch on another matter, which is also known by those who have participated in these projects: initially, all projects were set up as regional projects, regardless of the fact that we have no regions and we have statistical regions. Most of the projects were negotiated between individual municipalities until the time when the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors said that a joint project for more municipalities could not be implemented by one municipality in a financial sense for other municipalities. And all the projects backfired and called for each congregation separately. It is now up to the Government Office for Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors to discuss what is acceptable to financial procedures in Slovenia and what is comparable to European calls. But this requirement was the request of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, not the municipalities and individual regions that prepared the regional projects, which is also a major comment by the Court of Auditors at the moment and which was also the reason why certain funds from the EU were not drawn up because the Court of Auditors stated that the criteria for regional projects were not met. In the second case, however, the Court of Auditors wrote that one municipality cannot carry out a project in the sense of payment transactions. It doesn't work together. This sentence is very important, I quote again: "Only in 2009, when this government, after very difficult discussions with the European Commission, found a way to still run out in a certain part of the financial flow, did this actually happen at the end of the year." What does that mean? First, it speaks of illegality and then, for the same illegal projects, for the same projects that have taken place through previous calls and which have been properly implemented, otherwise this government could not negotiate to release these funds. So two years to talk about something illegal, but in the next year, when we are in another function, we are not in the Court of Auditors anymore, but we are in the position of a consultant or in Brussels, or in some ministry of development, and we say that these projects are okay and need to be supported and received because they have already been implemented." That's what it says. I'm not making that up. That's what the lady said on the committee. This means that, at first, she talked about how we have acted illegally and that the tenders have been unlawfully awarded without criteria, without appropriate invitations, and at the next moment she says, "After difficult negotiations, we have placed the same invitations and Europe is giving us money for the same tenders." It's a contradiction. I hope you understand. Look at the board's magnetogram. And he says, "This really means that in 2007 the previous government failed to obtain a single euro in Slovenia for these reasons for the development of the regions, in the same year in 2008 and no euro in the same year, and the financial flow has run out in November with the EU." A very interesting statement from someone who is now in a developmental service. First he talks about illegality, then he says that everything was wrong, and then he says that they were able to negotiate and raise funds for the same projects. I'm kind of worried about what that means. Nevertheless, I recommend that in the field of local self-government and calls, we follow good practices, which we all say a lot, neighbouring countries and, above all, that our officials withdraw in some way from their own country in the European Union. Neither the Austrians nor the Italians can afford it. And the Court of Auditors, which gives an opinion on a project, does not mean that we have to fly to Brussels and say that a project is wrong there in a village. This is mainly about smaller projects. And that this is why someone is hampering the payment of funds from the European Union is a little funny. Above all, in this context, to say first that these are illegal, inappropriate practices, and later to say that this has been successfully resolved and boasts about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I doubt, however, that the fundamental contribution of today's debate is that the Government or the competent service has arranged for the publication of an invitation or invitation to tender, whatever its name. I am convinced that this invitation or call would also be published without this request from the opposition's fellow Members. However, or precisely because of this, I believe that today's debate is, and I will repeat what I have already said, intended to find an answer today to the question why the invitation to tender is not published, and we find that the invitation to tender has already been published. It's like talking about last year's snow, but we have this year's new one in the yard. And I would also understand this move and debate if the purpose of this debate was to improve our efficiency in drawing on European funds. In fact, it is some kind of reciprocity when some people build the previous one and praise the current government, others are trying to say that the previous one was good and the present one is bad, and in fact there will be no good result at the end of this debate. And all because there is a kind of fear of all being divided by what is called a political criterion. Of course, I wonder what our goal is. We are probably all in agreement on this, that we want more coherent regional development. There will be more than just resources here, whether from the state budget or from the European treasury. It will be necessary to give serious consideration to the law on more coherent regional development, to amend it and to carefully consider the role of the RRAs within the law on coherent regional law. A typical example is in this period in Celje, in the Savino statistical region, where we find or find that confidence in the RRA Celje is no longer and they want to change, and we come to the conclusion that the RRA, which is mostly private, lays down conditions for both the state and the local communities so that they can be successful in drawing European funds. Wrong world. Of course, this cannot be allowed, and changes to the law also need to eliminate these irregularities. So our goal must be to make a successful withdrawal of funds, but we have already and will also face a fundamental problem in the future: money for participation, our own share. It's not in the municipal cash registers, so we're going to find it's missing for the most part in the state treasury. Then all the debates we are having today are difficult to find the right expression. So I would like a good final result, and I can only hope that such actions as we have witnessed in Celje will not ultimately result in the European Commission being alerted and urging it to be particularly careful when it comes to the allocation of funds to Slovenia, because there is a high likelihood that these funds will be inadvertently spent. I don't understand what you're doing. Not in this hall, not wider. If we want Slovenia as a whole, let us not only see it once for God's sake through the eyes of our municipality and our project, if we want Slovenia as a whole to develop further, but, of course, I also stress the importance of more coherent regional development, I hope that in the end it will not be the result of what I am actually most afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Excuse me, Mr. Zerjav, Mr. Pukšič has called. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u49	As a proponent. So the numbers that have been said by some just don't hold. It is true that the Ministry's report states that some of the data from RS, that is to say us, and the European Commission are diverging. They diverge because the RS budget does not take into account advances and the European Community takes into account advances. Perhaps reluctantly, but given the manner in which they were given, they were not unwittingly given. So I'm going to tell you what the net position was like in 2008. The net position at the end of 2008 was €6 million plus in the overall perspective. Not just 6 million. What is now at variance with the budget of the RS and the European Union is 240 million plus at the Bank of Slovenia and about 24 million more for direct projects. That means cca. 280 million euros net plus, a influx from the European Community during the previous government. It was an inheritance taken over by the current government. The programming period 2004-2006, for which the former government was solely responsible, benefited exactly 95% from the European Regional Development Fund. All the data, all the tables are like that. The European Commissioner and everyone also congratulated us on this. We have used agriculture and fisheries 90%. Maybe just because there's 95%. Because 5% stays, the commission stays. We then benefited from 80 from the European Social Fund, 60% from the Cohesion Fund, although all procedures had to be completed, i.e. for the European budget in 2009. Either they are and how much they are, but of course this government should say. The final result of this. True, colleagues and colleagues, on January 12th we made a request for a meeting, then of course the great famous government coalition prevents you in such a way that it invites you to supplement something, etc., because you are a first-class student who comes among the graduating ruling coalition MPs, they send you the brains to engage, of course. During this time, the invitation to tender has indeed come to light. And if we had and could propose procedurally or procedurally, we would propose to supplement the decision that the Government should draw up a percentage of the available resources by operational programmes, after all of these operational programmes, according to the available resources, on the 31st day. 12. 2009 That would be correct. That's what we'd demand, and we'd suggest it. And before I finish. Yeah, exactly what one of the speakers said earlier, muddled Slovenia out for some brief narrow visions. And this was done by someone who was sitting, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of SVRL, transferred to the Court of Auditors, Mrs Andrej Jerina, and then transferred to the Ministry of European Affairs and Development. She's profaning Slovenia outside without any authority. Why? Because I believe the President of the Government did not approve her of the promised country or service in the European Community. Specifically, gentlemen, ministers, ministers, a document where the European Commission has challenged previous calls, the work of the previous government. Show me one piece of paper. Where do you have it? That's not true. She didn't bother. Only Mrs Jerina, who was in all three jobs, was troubled. The European Commission has not bothered to do so. It's embarrassing, because the material is huge, but things need to be studied a lot, and there's a lot to know. All procedures are recorded because they are an integral part of accreditation in the way they were carried out. She has cooperated in these procedures from the European Commission to the institutions at home with us. And not only is it part of a composite accreditation, it's even more. The Supervisory Board is going through all of this. And shit like some people used to say. But who's on this committee? Members of the European Commission, members of our institutions, the Ministry of Finance, the Board of Budgetary Control. Do you know who else? Court of Auditors. Members of the Court of Auditors. And there is no record that anyone in the Court of Auditors would have warned that anything in previous calls was wrong. In this 5th call, by the way, the great experts who prepared this, you have nothing specific about what was wrong, not a single piece of paper. We have 11 points currently recorded, what is wrong with this 5th call. 11 points. And if colleague Zanoškar says that it was by the municipalities and, I don't know where it was all wrong, then let him say that his project was really problematic. But he says no, I guess he's not, now he's in the coalition, now he's not in trouble. Let them say it. Indeed, between 500 projects there can be one, but it will be the responsibility of the one who has reported it, who has not carried it out according to the documentation, which is, of course, verified. The minister said he had a lot of experts around him. He can say for himself that Dr. Lavtar is a senior LDS official. So he's not just an expert, he's also a politician. So we don't talk about pure professions themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Maybe some replicas at first. Surely the intervention of the Minister of Agriculture would not have occurred in any democratic country in the European Union if what happened to us had happened. In a normal democratic country in the European Union, the Minister of Agriculture would resign on his own and the interpretation would not be necessary. Second. Obviously, it would be best for the opposition to keep quiet, not to say anything, not to warn anything, simply to sit here and watch them raise their hands on the other side and so do we. That'd be probably for the best. For the coalition. The question is, is this good for the country? I am sure that this fifth call would not be today if there were no requirement for an extraordinary meeting. No one's gonna convince me otherwise. Also, because of this delay, let us delay a little longer so that we can call this call early and then talk about last year’s snow. There would be no such invitation to tender. Besides, I wanted to warn myself. No, there's something else I'd like to add. [[...]] I am pleased to acknowledge Mr Gjerkes, Minister for Local Self-Government, who acknowledged that everything in the EU's use of funds in the previous term has not been so bad. In fact, this is the first recognition that I have heard today for the first time that, obviously in the previous term, everything was not as bad, all as black as this year's reign of this coalition of desires to appear, but as if in the previous mandate in this area we were literally joking and we were not taking it seriously. I am pleased with this recognition, however, that something was good, which the Commissioners, or the European Commission, have finally acknowledged. But I agree that there can always be something better, that there is always something that can be changed for the better. And this is a responsibility to you right now. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the issue, not the call for this fifth call, especially the aspect of investment promotion, but investment at the local level, investment at the rural level. The fact is that the system has worked well in the past, proven, since in Slovenia there was almost no municipality in which there was no board of investment to prove that it was co-financing by European funds. Almost every congregation had these large tablets. This confirms that the pumping was that it was good, we practically absorbed all the funds in the previous perspective, and it started well in the new perspective. I believe this will continue. This has been acknowledged by all of us, even in the European Commission. We have also said several times in the Slovenian People's Party that investment in infrastructure at the local level, in the fact that we have, however, difficulties with state-level investments due to infrastructure investments, for example, because of the slow placement of these projects into the area of difficulty, so that investment at the local level could be an important contribution, including in the fight against higher economic growth, could be an important contribution to the new jobs that we so need. We have repeatedly said that promoting local investment could be one of the good anti-crisis measures. Why do we think that? Simply because at local levels, i.e. in municipalities, they are much more operational, much more resourceful, much faster in the implementation of projects than in the state level. And there's something else that matters. The implementation of projects at local level is much cheaper. This can also be confirmed by many mayors sitting here in this hall. I'm sure the mayors, even here sitting, can't, can't be embarrassed or ashamed of the way they've been draining funds so far. Many congregations benefited from drawing, but of course they also had to do much, and much effort had to be made to obtain these funds. The drawing contents are recorded in the operational programmes. This is practically a common budget when we are talking about a new perspective for 2007-2013, that is, planning the common and agreed policies of Slovenia and the EU. Operational programmes are agreed and approved. If we change them, this agreement will need to be recommenced and agreed, to obtain a certificate, validation by the European Commission. And it'll take us a while to change them. This will certainly put us at risk, if not the other, of delaying the use of funds. These operational programmes were also assessed through the so-called "Lisbon Costs" of the so-called "Lisbon Costs". So through the developmental perspective. And the assessment has shown that these costs earmarked for this purpose by the Republic of Slovenia are completely comparable to the amounts earmarked for this purpose by some of the most developed EU countries. The existing operational programmes have also taken into account the centres of excellence that have been discussed today. At the time, development was being considered, and many things were being considered, and there was no crisis at the time when those operational programmes were being prepared. And there's something else that's very specific. The project to co-finance the Beltinci-Pince motorway section was the first, or among the first major projects approved by the European Commission among all EU members. Among the first was the project of the highway section Slivnica-Drazenci, which was completed, all the documentation and everything, even during my ministry. The funds came in 2009. Count down this 100 million and then talk about the results of the pumping, there will be a completely different light, there will be a completely different balance sheet of this pumping. Don't take credit for laurels that don't work for you or you don't deserve them. Then these crazy good activities in this area become a little different, or we can put them in a different light. I say that much good has been done in the previous term, and I do not say that everything was good. But it's not all good that's going on today. Let's be realistic. And this warning, given that we were on the pranger all the time, how incompetent we were to draw European funds, proves that this balloon exploded, is not true. And that you're not much more successful than that. You're not even in a position to prepare the invitation to tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would start by saying that the Court of Auditors' findings regarding errors or irregularities in the allocation of European funds and also of its own resources, as well as the lack of or absence of criteria for the allocation of funds, can tell us otherwise - that there were also criteria that were not written and were very strictly taken into account, only true colours had to be the mayor. Interestingly, no matter what color the municipality was, it was important what color the mayor was. It was also appropriate to approve projects that not only met certain criteria that were not written down, but also the basic rules for the allocation of European funds for individual projects, regardless of the purpose for which they were made. When, for example, funds were allocated or approved projects that did not even have project documentation prepared, something else. For this reason, I think that today's point in this meeting is absolutely unnecessary, because this is a debate that arises on the basis of this time not even a party but a personal offense, personal anger, personal opposition to a person in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think this is where it's really going across every normal border. Of course, unfortunately, it is impossible for the person who triggered this emergency session to initiate an interpolation against this person, so he is looking for all possible ways to wrap it up and show it to the public as an enemy of the state number one. I would say that this way of creating a policy in this country just shows that we are not yet mature, a democratic country, because everyone can afford whatever he wants to have his own ego in front of the Slovenian public and Slovenian voters. That is why, of course, I do not intend to engage in a substantive debate because I think that this point is only a matter of further wasting time with unnecessary and pointless debates, that the Ministry or the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy should be given additional work to make it more difficult to take the steps that have been and are still needed to improve the system not only by drawing on but also by planning to draw European funds on all three operational programmes and in the Structural Funds. I hope that the Slovenian public, that ours, those who listen to us and watch us, will see that what we are doing today under the first item of this agenda will be a waste of time and that this time can be used significantly more useful than we are now using. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u55	I simply have to react to these inaccuracies and misleading the Slovenian public. First. In the Republic of Slovenia, quotas for individual regions were first set. The quotas were determined by one rule, this is the hazard index. As a former mayor, you might as well know that. Indeed, the risk index is 20 times higher in Prekmurje than in the central Slovenian region. When these quotas were set, however, the saints of the regions in which the mayors also reside confirmed regional development programmes within the world of the regions. And no job, no minister, no color, no secretary, no political officer, didn't make that decision. That's not true. What you said was going on in color is lies. But if you don't, you'll have to prove it. Only the saints of the regions did so. Now after the new invitation to tender, the services will decide. How's that? Politically composed and by political botts. That's what you brought into this 5th call. I'm sorry, really. I'm sure you're not going to make it, but you're going to be working this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u57	You described the procedure the way it was running. However, decisions, projects, programmes that the saints of the regions confirmed later changed as much as you forgot to say. Everything has to be said from the beginning to the end. Say this too, I can make an argument, but I think it's a waste of time for me to argue with you here. But you are notoriously offensive to anyone who thinks differently for a millimeter than you, Mr Pukšič, is, of course, a deep truth. That's why I would advise you to calm your tone a little bit and talk a little less aggressively and insultingly about people who don't always think and I don't know why you should always think the same way you think.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Thank you. You can't have a replica, Mr. Pukšič. But as a proponent, you can speak at any time. No, for now. Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased to welcome the Minister to the Chamber. Once again, there is a debate in this direction, when we want to draw the attention of the opposition to the facts, but the coalition and the opposition see things on their shore. I want to stress the fact that it's absolutely true. The former government has issued four calls and two more cross-border calls for cooperation with Croatia. Now we have been waiting for more than a year or we have been having a hard time waiting for this fifth invitation. The truth is that this fifth invitation to tender showed that the requirements had changed. This bureaucracy needs to be done and done much more effort than it did at the beginning. I would also like to point out that, during the first four calls, we have received a good 30 million more than we have submitted. This is also essential, for if we manage to obtain more resources than we invest, it means that we are successful. Many congregations have put much effort into their projects. And I would like to point out that it is the mayors who are promoting economic activity by running for such and other calls. In particular, in this construction sector, which we know has been in the worst straits lately. And we limit this trend because we know what it's like now, that unemployment is going up, and employment is, unfortunately, going back. I come from a local area where we have also planned an economic centre, which is now fundamentally limited and unfortunately we have to think in a different direction. In the end, I'd like to touch the development axes. I am very sorry to see in the development programme plan for the fourth development axis, this is the link between Ljubljana and Tolmin, each year only 100,000 euros. However, when we look at the document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Affairs Service, it is said to be excluded from the resolution of the development programme plan. However, I would like to point out that the municipalities, where the fourth development axis is to take place, have put a lot of effort into this project and, unfortunately, we now see, will not see the light of the world, at least with the help of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Miran Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker! Fellow Members, fellow Members! I also associate myself with this view that everything was not wrong in drawing on European funds in the previous mandate. I think that some things have been well taken away, but far from drawing on European funds being excellent and fantastic, what I have heard today in the debate. These shortcomings have been pointed out by the Court of Auditors and, in my opinion, it is right that both the Government and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy have taken the time to put criteria and criteria into place in these procedures, and that drawing on European funds will be more effective and in my opinion more effective. We have spoken several times in this House about the use of European funds, we have talked a lot about performance, but very little about efficiency, because it is necessary to meet certain criteria or criteria for efficiency. To substantiate the fact that everything wasn't great and fantastic, I've already talked about it once and I'll say it again. First call from the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions in 2007. The invitation to tender was published on 1.6., the deadline for the submission of applications was 26.6., the opening of applications at the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy was 2.7., the conclusions of the service were received 29.8.2007, contracts at the end of September 2007. And do you know how long it took for these measures to be carried out or implemented? Up to 30.9. Tell me how we respected the Public Procurement Act, gave up our jobs and carried out all these projects in accordance with the criteria. In my opinion, this was a bad way and it had to be changed in some way. I do not argue that the following tenders were not better than this first invitation to tender as regards the timeline. As regards procedures, the Councils of the Regions have adopted regional development programmes as well as implementation programmes. They were dealt with earlier by the committees, as well as by the regional development councils, and we also obtained the agreement of the Government's Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. And you know what it is? I'm not saying there's a lot of these projects, but I know some. These projects, which received money on these calls published years ago, were neither included in the implementation part nor in the regional development programme. But the criteria changed. It was initially agreed and also announced that projects that will weigh at least €600,000 will be taken into account in the call for proposals. Then it changed, the criteria went down, so I didn't say anything else. I think this must be acknowledged, the Court of Auditors has warned us about this and this system needs to be changed if we are to make European funds more efficient and, above all, more efficient. I say that this 5th call is prepared in line with these comments and follows the objective of making more efficient use of European money. What is important to me today is not only that we talk about what is pumping and height in the current period, because I would not measure performance by the number of tables that are across Slovenia. And on these boards are the projects we carry out in our country. But more so after these projects bring in additional value, greater economic growth, job creation and more coherent regional development. And we didn't have the right criteria here. I say all these goals will be difficult to achieve. In my view, it is correct that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also taken time, given the economic and financial crisis, to re-check all priorities, to check operational programmes and to see whether these priorities are right or not. And if they are no longer true, those that would lead us to more efficient and better development should change these priorities and operational programmes. However, something had to be done to achieve these objectives. In the future, these projects need to be better planned, in my opinion they have not been best planned, reduce administrative drawback barriers, optimise the drawdown system and ensure greater uniformity of procedures, establish a transparent information system on reporting, payments and control over the successful use of European funds. And this is what the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and Government did. I am sure that pumping will be more successful in the future and, above all, more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. May I give the floor to the Member of Parliament? Yes, you can. Mr. Miran Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! It was 11 months ago that we, colleagues and colleagues discussed the same or the same matter, only that there was a problematic debate about the drawing-up of European funds, which is also directly linked to the system of public calls for EU funds. The only difference was that the initiators or actors were defiantly respected members of the coalition species and the former Janša government and, in particular, former Minister Žagar were struck. Apparently, the opposition is returning the blow. At the time, you were one of the most active initiators, Mrs Breda Pečan, and now you say that it is not substantively worth discussing, if I recall the debate that took place 11 months ago. The formal reason for the controversy at that time was the European Commission's decision to require some European Union countries to repay the funds they had unduly spent. It was Greece, Cyprus, and Slovenia. This was a total of approximately EUR 130 million, which Slovenia was asked to do, if I recall correctly, EUR 1.5 million, due to a lack of control over payments, because the Member States are responsible for the payment and verification of the expenditure of the common agricultural policy and the European Commission must ensure that the funds are spent properly by the Member States. Thus, again and in many other cases of rule-making and inaction of the competent institutions, all taxpayers have been fined financially. And it was last year, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that you triggered real hysteria and political propaganda about the hypothesis that Slovenia should not take advantage of all the possibilities for drawing on European funds. It appears that European funds represent a very appropriate means of accounting for both current and former authorities. By signing a trust agreement for the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, Slovenia has somehow received recognition that it has the appropriate mechanisms to control the absorption of funds from the European Union funds. If we refresh our memory, it has also been confirmed by the European Commission's highest assets that the 2007-2014 programming period is being implemented or carried out quite successfully. The former Slovenian government negotiated EUR 4.2 billion for cohesion policy, which was then a 3.5-fold increase compared to the previous period or perspective. It is only now that we see that the criticisms of the coalition Members at the time of the ineffective use of EU funds have not been justified. At the same time, if we are making comparisons with the current situation or with the situation in 2009. At that time, even the Court of Auditors was wise and found that the low implementation of the Structural Funds would be not only due to the dynamics of drawing but also to inadequate planning on unrealistic assumptions. And I'm just wondering what kind of wise findings the Court of Auditors is going to come up with right now. If I touch on monitoring and surveillance, because this is clearly an acute problem, which we have repeatedly warned about in the Slovenian National Party last year. No institution shall be adequately responsible for the systematic monitoring of all funds received. And if I am already at responsible institutions and services, I would invite you to visit Prekmurje, for example, to visit the mayors of our smaller municipalities in Goricak. During the pre-election period, promises of assistance in public tendering, simplified procedures, assistance in project preparation and so on were kept out of the question. So far, unfortunately, this has been of no use. The latest hope, however, seems to be the effective implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurje Region. But unfortunately, things seem to be limping around here at the very beginning. Since there was no institution in the Republic of Slovenia that fully covered the European budget inflow data, the Court of Auditors ordered the Ministry of Finance to initiate procedures for the preparation of a standard reporting format that would address the financial flows of European funds and draw-out situations in a comprehensive manner. In doing so, it made a number of recommendations which would allow for a more transparent presentation of the European budget, including with a view to avoiding the different interpretations and interpretations of the so-called net position of the Republic of Slovenia as regards these funds. There is something else I would like to mention - the duty of the State to participate in this three-partite tendering system. Quite often, it is the country that is blocking the implementation of these calls for proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. My friend Györek, it's true. I've talked about it a lot. That's why I don't think there's any point in talking about it. We've talked about it on a competent working body. And it is exactly what you have said that is the result of the mistreatment of people who have approved of the European Union's funds. In the area of agriculture, in particular, the State must pay back money because there was no control or very poor control in the application of agricultural land for direct payments. And what happened? We know of an eccentric case when a farmer on whose former land the Spara shopping center was built declared this land for direct compensation. And that was in the previous term, by the way. In order to avoid such consequences, the Court of Auditors, when you so sarcastically say that it is wise to say that it is wise for the Court of Auditors to conclude that records of payments or payments that have been reported or claimed and payments should be kept in a central place, that they are not scattered around and you do not know at all who is drinking and who is paying. And here the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and also the European Affairs Service have done in the past year, I think, given the irregularity of the situation, it took a year for them to settle things and that we have a whole bunch of improvements that have also led to a lot more than in recent years and that we have a surplus of what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Respected and respected! Much has been said today about the political nature of this debate. I must say that I do not care who has the credit and who is to blame if, as a product of this debate, we improve our common opportunities to succeed in drawing on European funds. We are in the 2010 budget and in the 2011 budget, and the Slovenian exit strategy predicts that in 2012 and 2013, it will be a very high bet that we will be successful in drawing about a billion euro a year. These bets as a country and as an economy must not be lost because we must all be aware together that these are the resources we have in this country and in the community to accelerate development. In doing so, it is sort of a separation by half of this hall, in fact, how we view the role of the institutions of the rule of law and, among them, of the Court of Auditors, and this separation appears to us symptomatically in several places. The views, judgments and judgments of the Court of Auditors should be respected. And the Court of Auditors' audit is clear in this area. I would not like to claim that this is the fruit of some political conspiracy in a fight between two political breakdowns that want to prove to each other that our or your government was better, that our or your government was responsible for certain things. At these points, we will never be able to unify ourselves, and that is a fact. However, it follows from the audit that projects were given without criteria and that often by means we did not achieve the effects imposed because the effects, the desired effects, were poorly thought out. You know, this is about as important in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as it is that we have it, but not what are the priorities of this budget, what are the programmes in which we allocate resources, what are the effects and objectives that we stand for as a nation that we want to achieve because we want to dynamic development, because we want to strengthen the social cohesion of our community, and not least because we want to make our economy more competitive and capable of fighting on the global market. And the resources of European cohesion policy will further contribute to this development impact, to creating this financial potential that is available to our country only if we adapt the rules and programming documents accordingly. Our government has come to this responsible work because it is aware that this is the fundamental substance that our global policy or policy is failing. And I don't want to go into what it was like to draw funds after years, because I don't want to be in this place fighting to interpret whether Minister Žagar was successful at this, whether the previous government was successful or not. What we must be interested in together is that the resources that we have from this moment forward to the end of this financial perspective will be able to be used successfully for the benefit of local communities, for the good of the economy, for the sake of our greater social cohesion. Nevertheless, allow me because the topic is directly linked, including what the country has defined in the Slovenian exit strategy, to say something about changes in operational programmes. I think that the approach we are betting on viable projects is to finance what can be done in 2009 so that we do not remain in Brussels or that we do not get the reimbursements from Brussels, as has been the case in recent years. To this end, the Government has taken the initiative to amend operational programmes and has placed a fundamental emphasis on these criteria that these funds should serve to stimulate the added value of our economy and job creation. Many of the funds have also been used so far, although we have successfully pumped them, but they have not created the desired developmental impact, not jobs, but, as we often say recently, the walls, empty business zones, which today are difficult to fill with content. Change of spending priorities focused on entrepreneurship and development, with a fundamental principle from walls to high value-added jobs, to safe flexibility and social cohesion by accelerating the development of new employment opportunities and transport infrastructure, with a focus on strengthening public passenger transport infrastructure, which is closely linked to our high objectives, which should also be subject to a general national consensus on adaptation and the fight against climate change. I will give an example of one of these operational programmes entered in the resolution on national development projects 2007 and 2023. I have said several times about this resolution in this place that it seems to me that it had a pre-election effect before the 2006 local elections, when the Government has served a series of proposals on what we will do in specific local environments. In addition to the fact that they were defined in the resolution and that the programming documents identified quite high figures on how we will invest in these projects, at least the experience at the Oreh Economic Centre at Maribor says that nothing else has been done. That no basic infrastructure had been established for the implementation of this project. It is said that there was no designated project holder, a competent institution which, because of its economic interest or the local community, is to create these projects because of the general interest of the development of the area. In this area, changes in operational programmes are being announced, unfortunately, but in the understanding that the feasibility of the projects that are being set up must be ensured. We have a project of a scientific park in Maribor, which, unfortunately, will obviously fall out of the national framework now within the Oreh Economic Centre, even though it is ready and may be a matter of days or weeks to obtain a building permit to establish an infrastructure that we must not forget even during the crisis. These are institutions of a supportive entrepreneurial environment that operate well in Maribor and can consequently increase the competitiveness of the entire area. In Maribor we have an airport located on the intersection of 5th and 10th corridors and railways. This is a location that you can find comparatively across Europe - a location with such a favourable traffic position, with such a good connection to Luka Koper, for example. At the same time, it's an area with an empty airspace. These projects are not ready, but I would like to point out that only the country is capable of implementing this project with its development potential and must do so in the national interest, because the implementation of such a project means a significant increase in competitiveness, not only for the new investors coming to that area, but also for the existing Maribor industry, which is not filling the front pages of the newspapers because it is not in such a major crisis, but which is heavily populated by all the reserves and where the worst scenarios will soon start to take place if we do not respond properly, also by not forgetting what is important to us in the middle and long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss it. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I expected and hoped that this debate would be an interesting and useful incentive for the Government and all of us to reconsider and improve the funding system for projects that are important for the cohesion of our country and that we will come from some facts in this debate. Unfortunately, so far, we have heard mainly political debate by the proposaler and the opposition. Worse still, we have heard and witnessed an attempt to personally discredit the Secretary of State and to link her current role with the role at the time, which of course reminds us of some form of revenge, czech, the State Secretary who belonged to the Court of Auditors at the time, has helped the Court of Auditors to establish some lack of transparency or irregularity in the participation of certain municipalities, some entities in European calls. For once, we have the information and facts signed by the experts of the Court of Auditors. We are now talking about the hypothetical failures or failures of the current government, without having similar comparisons, without having the Court of Auditors' assessments, which raises or reduces the level of debate to political debate, to assumptions and, as I said earlier, to unacceptable forms of discrediting ad person. We have heard this from a proposaler who is not exactly a symbol of reliability. The speaker recently said many things, including on television screens. I have heard from him that Greece is a Adriatic State and a purely perverted interpretation of Article 86 of the Constitution. And I wonder if he hopes to spend such inaccuracies and inaccuracies on some important subjects, how many truths and how much accuracy are there in his findings today?Oh, my God! But no matter what. It's a serious topic. We are discussing the issue of the effectiveness and transparency of calls and calls for proposals, which are established between local communities, between local authorities and the country on the one hand, and between the country and the European Union on the other, and, of course, between end-users, these are local authorities, and the European Union. Unfortunately, there is a debate on a very light, casual level. What we have heard today comes from some knowledge, some of the experiences of some mayors from smaller municipalities, where we are, of course, talking about a few million budgets and who would like to interpret and understand and even advise on how to draw and how to deal with large systems of the European Union's cohesive funds without understanding that if you make one mistake with the European Union, there is no other way to run for tenders. And, unfortunately, that was in the previous term. We have heard how successful the previous government has been in drawing on European funds, how we have always been somewhere at 60% of the realisation, at most 70% of the realisation, because of, let's say, the slump of the then runoff at the level of projects that were particularly interesting to the municipalities. And here again today, this polarisation is emerging between the narrow local interests on the one hand, so those mayors who were not satisfied with some results, with some calls today, are announcing, I suppose if they got a call that they were interested in at that time, they wouldn't even start this debate today because they're not interested in the whole system, but they're interested in how quickly they can achieve what they think is important for their electoral interests at home. And if that doesn't happen, they blame Mr Jerina, they blame the Court of Auditors. Today the Court of Auditors is again targeting some interesting controversy, czech, they have interpreted our desires, our needs. No, the Court of Auditors is there to ensure the transparency of the tenders. And if this transparency is not at national level, do not expect the European Union to fall into the trap and not understand these irregularities. And when that happens, it's a pre-trialized system for all the years to come. The European Union requires maximum transparency. This excess of transparency is likely to then affect the prudence of the functioning of the country. And that's how it has to be. And if the current government does not want to repeat the same mistakes made by the previous government, you call it inefficiency or slowness. We'll see. We will see at the end of the mandate, and then we will have parameters for an objective comparison of how successful the previous government has been and how successful this government will be. After a half-second year of your term, you are now assessing without a basis. On the basis of some of the Lord's solely local interests, which, of course, wastes its untruths on important issues on television and does not even apologize for that. I heard a lot of discredit from his mouth today at the expense of the Secretary of State. It does not seem appropriate to me that such an important topic, such as pumping and calling for European funds, is being addressed and that the whole thing is being declassified. It is a shame, however, that the debate itself is interesting, it is important, and I think it is useful for the Government, if we base it and if we suggest to the Government something that has a basis. If we continue this way, I see no benefit from this multi-hour session. I hope this will not be the case in the end, so I call on my opposition colleagues to depoliticise the subject a little further and to try to be, not constructive, because it is an observable word, but at least creative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll start right there when he mentions that the Secretary of State has been discredited here today. I must say that all these particulars, which were given here, are listed in the well-known letter from Minister Gjerkes, by 4. 11th, which all Members have, no matter what status this letter has. This letter states that the Secretary of State assumes all political responsibility by doing what it has done, by means of an intervention that prevented 396 million funds from coming from the region's development programme and that it has done so on its own. If a minister wrote this in distress because he found that when he became a minister, he was in the same situation as his predecessor, Minister Plosteiner, who resigned because of the fact that the well-known networks within the government had built the destiny of allocating funds to regional communities and municipalities. But it was about taking the money. It's only about this country and only about money everywhere! And it seems to me that this government is building a decisive power centre on how to make the allocation of money to the European Union, say, precisely defined, dedicated circles. And when we had the case that 296 million funds had already been negotiated and all the meetings were held, as these letters show, the Secretary of State intervened, apparently at the order of Minister Gaspari. And there was no such thing. I am convinced that my local community in the clear area of the project has also "falled through" because another ministry, the Ministry, the Prime Minister in this Government and the Secretary of State have intervened in the area of the Government. And if the minister says he's taking full political responsibility for this, why doesn't he take it today? Listen, this letter as well and related matters are a similar affair, such as the Baricevic affair, with interventions that stand in the background. There are too many of these affairs in this country! Here some ties work in this country beyond legal structures, absolutely beyond legal structures. And in this matter, someone should have stepped down, not just Minister Pogačnik in another matter. It would also require political responsibility and an immediate withdrawal, because these things are monstrous. And the consequences are then - do you know where? The consequences are addresses such as "The Catastrophe Operation of LHB Frankfurt". It also involves the same financial circles that manage state money. We know that colleague Friday tried to kill - but they failed - when he wrote about the LHB loans to Mr. Zakeršnik. Now we have consequences for all citizens - we will rehabilitate the Ljubljana Bank again. New funds will be drawn from each citizen's pocket as a result of these financial frauds. And because of these frauds, there was no invitation to tender. How much longer, I wonder, will everyone be putting their heads in the sand, writing reports, setting up commissions just for nothing to happen? And look, these networks are a disaster, they're a disaster for Slovenia. Now in these days, and that's what you have to say, it's true what was going on in this Bulmastif affair. Who intervened? What are these family ties? Today it says who's the nephew of Minister Pogačnik. It's all connected. What role did Minister Kresal play? What role did the Association Yes play? Well, that's a monster. These things, in a way that victims are a permanent local community, that victims are small people, are simply not moving forward. Let us agree today at this meeting to adopt a binding decision that a major error has been made. It is not a mistake to commit an illegal act and to record what the minister once wrote that someone must take political responsibility. At this point in time, politically. What's more, we need to clear up. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we are not able to do so, if we are not able to understand and act in this way, then people will have no confidence in the functioning of this Parliament, then they will be convinced that there are many more under "strictly confidential" and these are illegal secrets that prevent, in fact, the protection of crimes. I'm in favour of making these things perfectly clear and taking action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Mr. Franco Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u73	That's right, Mr. President. My colleague Jerovšek went into other spheres, but at first he referred to one of my findings that today we were witnessing an unacceptable discrediting of a person. And Mr Pukšič, the proposer, reiterated several times that the Secretary of State is acting and defaming Slovenia for his own interests. See, this is a severe discredit that, if you did not have immunity, would have demanded, probably allowed even an accusation of slander or regret. But we allow it just like that, without all the evidence. And this from the gentleman, from the MP who said on television peacefully that Greece is a Adriatic state. Please! Look at the map. Or that Section 86 says what it doesn't say. And that's what you said at the Reflections, Mr. Pukšič. You're not credible. You're not credible and you're muddling others like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Mr. Pukšič, you have the word, but not the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u75	The main thing is that they are credible from Zares and LDS, otherwise their credibility has shown up even with your president who comes and lies and continues to be minister. That's your credibility. That we discredited someone. We have not discredited it, not by any chance, but we are defending the interests of Slovenia, citizens and citizens of this country. This lady discredited this country and discredited the cabinet of ministers, a few ministers, when, on the day of the signed letter, after a telephone intervention, she called the Commissioner and told him that she had received a second coordinated letter. That what he got was coordinated, so it wasn't. The ministers jumped into the air and said that they would then assume all political and material responsibility. Of course, this did not happen because it sits in such a government where it has become a virtue of lying, lying to the minister, lying to the party president and lying to some other colleagues here today. That's what this country is about. I agree that some of the problems that arise in different calls arise because the operators do not stick to everything. Something like that was pointed out by Mrs. Pecanov. But it's not the minister who's responsible. I'm talking about that farmer who put up a store on the farm land he reported. But it's not the system that made the call for operational programmes. There are laws in force in this country. And even in the National Assembly, we are not to blame for breaking these laws. "Klokočovnik satisfied, Pečanova to Constitutional Court [[Isola, 11 January]] , satisfied with the final outcome and stressed that he had already won the elections in November." Let her remember what she was doing. And, Mrs. Pečanova, "the mayor of the municipality of Izola Tomislav Klokočovnik has invaded the former mayor of Bredo Pecan." First, it is necessary to sweep before its threshold and then sweep before the thresholds of others. In any case, Mrs Pecanova and Mr Jerič should indeed be asked, not to ask, to state specific cases in the National Assembly that they said they would not talk about, because they obviously do not have them, and they are not, that the Council of the Regions has adopted the programme and that they have changed it at the Ministry or at the Government, whoever is already and wherever. So let them clearly tell whom, when and where this has happened, otherwise it is an eccentric lie that has been re-examined in Parliament. Another time. It's true what my friend Jerič said that those hands were short. They were, of course, as they were for the use of funds under Article 23, the financing of municipalities. And you know very well, fellow mayors, how long we've had to make this happen and in what way. It is true that those hands were short, but it is also true that the Ministry of Local Self-Government has given us an opportunity or that we have requested an extension of the deadlines, which we have also received and have done things. Finally, as I mentioned earlier, we listed 11 or 12 of the various errors or illogicalities that have arisen at this 5th invitation or call that they have made. One of these is, as I have already mentioned, the clearing up of roads, then the applications will no longer be reviewed by SVRL employees, but will be reviewed by some external experts. Who's going to pay these experts, what's the address, and what kind of funds are you going to take the money from? When registering a call for a border with Croatia, how can they get a registered number of projects in order, if 10 or more occur a day? And let me just say one more thing. It is written that if the project is not more than EUR million, no cost-benefit analysis is necessary. You know that IP is the minimum document to be made. Since the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of an investment document, it cannot be done without cost-benefit analysis. So these are not some special reliefs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Hello, Minister. 5. The call we have been waiting for for for a very long time has been a practical reason for this debate and a request for a reference. There's more than one cause. In my view, the key cause is the inefficient use of European funds and certain signs that suggest this inefficient use of European funds. The purpose of this debate today is in particular to send a message to the Government and to the competent minister that it is indeed appropriate to do everything possible to make more efficient use of European funds. Why? The use of European funds can also be an extremely important instrument in the fight against the economic and social crisis and in the area of modernisation of the necessary development infrastructure in our country. The current government, if it wishes or does not want to admit, has received a very good legacy in the area of European funds. A fantastically negotiated financial perspective, a good 5 billion available, with only 3 to be paid to the European budget, which means that it is in a net position through a financial perspective of 2 billion plus. And here I also want to respond to those who say that a successful net position of 155 million in last year is proof of effective drawing. Not at all, Your Honor! It would be embarrassing if the net position were not so positive, or even significantly better, given the fact that we have as many as 2 billion positive balance sheets at the level of the entire financial perspective. Why does this message of Parliament need to be made available to the Government in order to make an effort to draw on European funds and not to add to the complexity and complexity of procedures? Because that's what's happening. If we now consider that we have been waiting for this fifth call for the development of the regions for more than a year because of the various differences between the government's departments, and when we have seen it, it introduces some new obstacles that were not before, and I think they are unnecessary now. I don't know why at the time of the application someone should have a legal building permit, why it's not possible to get it before an investment in a certain period, and also all the costs associated with obtaining it, should be included among the eligible costs, even though this is now possible. However, it is a liquidity problem that someone must have, and it is all financed before the call for proposals. It's one thing that has been additionally bureaucratic, in my estimation of unnecessary, and made a certain selection between projects. Many congregations will not be able to apply for a specific project because they will not have a construction permit by the end of April when that deadline is reached. There has been no such condition in the four tenders so far. A new additional bureaucratic obstacle when you said you would debirocratize these procedures. Another is this discretion that the service has taken and will assess the regionality of municipal projects. Here I ask the Minister: Will the Government or Government interfere with the projects proposed by local communities or reporting agents for the development of the regions and determine whether a kindergarten that wishes to be financed from these funds is important for the development of the municipality? He'll be reported, and he'll be flying out because of this non-regionality. And there's something else that I think is a relatively worrying situation at pumping. I come from a document that the Government or Government itself has sent to Members of Parliament on the basis of the Government's Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. If you look at page 8, you can see how all three operational financial perspective programmes 2007 and 2013 are being drawn up. And if you look at this, you will find that the cohesion policy funds paid by the end of last year were only about 15% of all options, only 15% of the financial perspective was paid by the end of last year, and a refund of about 5%, certified returns. This means that by the end of last year, 15% of all available funds had been paid out of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we go into the structure a little bit when I talk about all three operational programmes, if we look at the Operational Programme Human Resources Development, we can figure out that the cohesion policy funds have been paid less than 10% and that there have been certified claims for reimbursements of a few percent, 2%, 3%, not to be collected because there are so few. Similarly, transport infrastructure and infrastructure for environmental protection are similar and similar. These are data, which are government official data, nothing is made up, and they say nothing else but that the matter is not idyllic, ideal and that it is also valid for Members to give one message, an impulse to the government to just hurry and speed up here. These are the specifics of the document and believe that they are correct. And there's one more thing. A very bad message is given by the Government of Slovenia when it revised the resolution of national development programmes and proposes to exclude from this resolution a whole set of important national development projects such as individual logistics centres, for example, I do not come from Maribor or around Maribor, the logistics centre of Oreh is recognised as a national non-predictive and therefore proposes to be included in some regional programmes. I am most concerned that the development of road infrastructure or this urgent development axis, for example, is the third development axis, that these axes are deleted from the resolution of national projects, as if these are not key national projects. For example, the third development axis linking Koroška to the White Krajina through Posavje is no longer a key national road project. I think it is and it has to be. But no, the current government deletes it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the bad messages you give to the economy are bad. Instead of drawing on European funds as an important instrument, an anti-crisis development instrument, it becomes a clearing house for some political accounts, and I think that this meeting is intended to call on the Government to finally speed up and make it more effective in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Your Honor! The question is, What is the purpose of today’s session? Whether it is to identify the actual situation in this area, i.e. in the area of project financing through the funds we are drawing from the EU's so-called funds, which certainly are not, since it is only through some mechanism that we are drawing on the money that is also ours, which we are paying into the European budget. Clearly, the purpose of this point goes beyond wanting to see if something is wrong or if something can be improved and what someone will do to improve the situation if it is bad. On the average, talk about how everything was wrong, how it was, how they screwed up and didn't do their job. I don't know why we don't say in a word that we already had a number of problems with the interpretation of what happened in the past at the end of the 2007 and 2008 accounts. Obviously, we will never come up with a single answer, whether in the past the use of funds has been effective or not. On the contrary. We're going to stay on each other's shores, but if we don't get answers, then we can't improve the situation. It is obvious that it is necessary to prove at this point and now that this is another area that is a weak point in this government and therefore with all the cannons above this area. I believe that it makes sense, even in politics, that problems, congestion, solutions and accountability, if problems are, we have, in general, where we are adopting the right legislation and the basis for resolution. But it is also true that some people prefer to create them and point their finger at others. And there is a third truth that there would be no problem at all, and you wouldn't be able to solve them, because there wouldn't be if there weren't. This is actually a very big truth. Thus, some problems have been lingering over several years and mechanisms have been put in place, however, which have also caused some problems that need to be addressed now. I can certainly tell you that I have learned a few concrete cases, some concrete projects that have been stalled because they were taken with a fig in their pocket. From the closets, skeletons fell in a way signed paper by two ministers, one written by Podobnik, one written by Žagar, VAT as a reasonable cost we will calculate from the integral budget in the next perspective, because this project started in the previous perspective. When this comes to the table, of course, it's not worth it. And how this project should go on. It is not planned in the budget, it is not planned in the framework of projects or the tasks of ministries, etc., and this is, of course, to be resolved. Of course, we could also say where everything is responsible on the part of the callers, on the part of the callers, on the page, etc., etc., or also on the part of those who make an invitation to tender for investment in tourism infrastructure. The invitation to tender has been issued. Thus written on the skin of two potential users, to which it is determined, the deadline expires, investors - in one case Vegrad, Climate Friday and similar, do not satisfy the terms of the invitation to tender and the invitation to tender falls, the money stays there. I believe that concrete or concrete, including the Member, have been identified in this and that there is no need for specific reference. And now, to reverse logic and say, it is the system's fault, it is everyone who manages this money, who cooperates with Brussels, etc., without taking into account all the circumstances, and who might even participate in how everyone together would be more successful, and that is not. Point your finger. Ask for responsibility, but prove what's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General. I personally welcome a meeting like this today, and I believe and hope that this will be particularly helpful to you, Mr Minister, with your further work. Not only will you get some criticism, probably even praise, for at this time you have only taken a step further to reach this fifth call. Above all, I believe that the Government, or those ministers, who have so far been unloving or hindered from acting so self-indulgently as to try those funds that have been placed through your department in Slovenia to be more respectful. So at the end of this discussion, I would expect or ask your opinion, whether a meeting such as today’s or this point can be beneficial or not. I'm guessing it is, but it's also in the coalition. It has been quite obvious that such a meeting is unproductive, a waste of time to deal needlessly with certain matters instead of dealing with specific ones. I say that this kind of meeting is very concrete. None of us should be here who would not be interested in succeeding from Europe, which is given to us on a platter, to absorb 5 billion money or 2 billion more than we will invest. That's a lot of money. And it will take a lot of work, a lot of unity, not stumbling each other to prepare projects. I am pleased that he has indicated the good work of the previous government mandate, where many calls have been made, many projects have been prepared. On the basis of these projects, honourable Members from the coalition, which you are reclaiming today, one in fact, is not the truth that the funds that came to Slovenia last year are due to this government. That's not true. This is like someone who takes over the farm from someone who was sowing in the spring and in the autumn a new owner of the harvest and then he will boast that it is his crop. That's irrelevant. It is important that Slovenia receives as many funds as possible. It seems to me, too, that we are dealing with who is deserving, who does not deserve back. Let us try, through such discussions, to draw attention to where it is stuck, to remove disruptive elements such as the State Secretary at the Ministry of Development, Mr Gaspari. Because, of course, it was also clear in the newspaper or in the media that there were many complications with its emergency. Let us also help to remove those disruptive elements from functions where it can also be decided. And if we have too much red tape - we have it - everyone finds out. Ask for a little bit of development agencies, by the municipalities, how complicated it is to make calls, how unnecessary ballast it is. Let's try and get this thing over with. In the previous term, a number of procedures have been simplified, and we have still been able to get criticism that there is still a lot to be done to simplify things. Let's give these problems a hard time. Let the ministry, perhaps also your job, Mr Minister, prepare some suggestions and solutions, and then here in Parliament, if necessary, with any changes we are trying to make. But not to argue about who deserves it, who doesn't deserve anything to go on. Of course, that won't bring anyone anything. 2013 will be very quickly here, if of course there will be no funds, this will be a lost opportunity and, of course, all the strategy that this government has put in place, which we will discuss later, relies heavily on these very funds that it is supposed to receive from Europe. At the outset, I fear that this strategy will be unrealistic if we fail to prepare our institutions, our projects, our legislation or regulations in a way that will, of course, be possible. Of course, I want to believe that the whole of Slovenia, all the municipalities, all the mayors, the mayors, that these funds will, of course, be used as meaningfully as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. As the last speaker mentioned, I actually understand today's debate as a well-intentioned contribution to better and more efficient use of European money, both substantively and quantitatively. Even in the area of development priorities, the development of regions that should be primarily discussed today, and also my discussion or my interpretation went in this direction, that we had a European cohesion policy in some condition that needed to be upgraded, but was well negotiated, was well established, but, as I say, not completely worked out. Of course, there can be no procedure that requires multi-annual implementation from the beginning to the end. We probably agree on that. Having a fantasticly negotiated financial perspective, with which we are now doing worse or drawing poorly than I hear ten times a day, cannot be true again. I will not discuss this subject with Mr Visiak, but I am just saying that if I listen to a recurring statement, I myself will uncompromisingly say that this is simply not true, because today I have already argued this three times. However, I must respond to two statements made by Mr Vizjak. The first concerns increased red tape and, above all, new obstacles - that is, why a legal building permit at the 5th public call. The analysis of the first four showed that there was a relatively high proportion of the operations that the notifiers withdrew, namely 6%, I am talking about the priority of "development of the regions", all four first calls, and a high proportion of the operations for which the implementation deadline had to be extended, that is 23% of the operations to be completed by 30. 9. 2009 This indicates the poor readiness of the operations at the time of approval, as most delays were based on insufficient or missing permits for intervention in the premises and difficulties in obtaining the necessary land. It is not only a permit to intervene in the space, but also a land to make an investment. Therefore, we decided, on the one hand, to give as a condition for the inclusion of a project in the implementation plan of the project having a building permit, by having known this condition for at least half a year. And those who have been seriously preparing for the 5th public call and who have been waiting for it for six months, I think they should also be prepared with permission to intervene into space. And this should not be an obstacle, but at the same time it accelerates the absorption of European money, which we are all interested in as easily as possible. In short, that was the reason. In addition, we have complemented this request by allowing more complementation of the implementation plans in the year, by May 2010, 2011 and 2012. The second argument I have to answer is that the Government or the government service for local self-government and regional policy has discretion to choose the content of the implementation plans, followed by the question of whether the state will interfere with the implementation plans. So, first the claim and then the question. No, it won't. However, we had to complement the procedure for the validation of the implementation plans by means of a two-step procedure following comments from the Court of Auditors and the Office for Budgetary Control that the procedure itself is more transparent and at the same time that those objectives are covered by the implementation plans which are committed to cohesion policy objectives. In short, the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government gives an opinion following the review of the implementation plan, which conveys this opinion to the Council of the region, which is solely responsible for the approval of the implementation plans. You know that. Mayors are the best. I think that this claim is out of context and would constitute a breach of the basic procedures for the development priority of regions where the needs and requirements for development really need to come from a region for which the funds are also intended. And that's what we're holding on to at the Government Service, and we're holding on to in government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Mr. Puksich. Do you want a replica or as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u85	As a proponent. Only this because the Minister now exclusively stressed in the end that the world of the regions is the one responsible for the validation of the projects. Tell the National Assembly whether any project was financed beyond the fact that it was approved in the world of the regions. Have you identified these irregularities, as has been said so many times in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Dear Mr Puksic, you are now asking me about the powers vested in the Court of Auditors. You need to look at this in the Court of Auditors' report and it will be clear there. We're not a supervisory authority to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u88	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. I would say against the end of this debate, I can also take into account what some debaters say is now a little late this debate when this call is. Of course, I agree that it would have been better for this thorough debate to have taken place about six months ago. I would also like to point out that if, at that time, this call, which is also the subject of this debate or the reason for this debate, although the real cause is also that famous intervention which has already been dealt with on the Committee, is clearly rejected, although I am arguing that, of course, it is unjustifiable. It must be given, at the outset, I must say that it is necessary to acknowledge to Minister Gjerkes with the team that she has taken a good turn for the job and that she hopes that these procedures will continue well. Although I cannot, of course, get rid of the feeling that, at the beginning of this mandate, it was meant, of course, by the coalition, but only slightly different. Those of us who were at the presentation, at the hiring of future Minister Gaspari, we listened to the debate at the time, his presentation, which was an extract from the coalition contract, that they thought they were going to completely change the system of European resource drawback procedures. You probably can't deny that. It is on the part of our parliamentary group, colleague Bogovic and his debates and my discussions, where we have pointed out, that the most important colleague Bogovic, who knows this system well, is a system of all European drawing-out procedures, so that any change that has been envisaged in the coalition agreement and in hiring will also be presented that, of course, we will delay all procedures for a year, year and a half. But I am sure that this tendency has also continued during Minister Plosteiner's time, and that this was certainly also one of the reasons why she had to, if she wanted to protect not only her name, but to protect that these proceedings would finally run once and that Slovenia would, of course, have some of it. After all, that's what this is all about. Here I agree with the Minister that this is not about which party will benefit, which minister will benefit from the funds to which they are intended, or to the Government or to whom they are intended, but about the development of the main part of Slovenia, especially the one that is less developed, which has major development problems. As it is said, now, fortunately, the invitation to tender has been made and, after all, this debate, I am not afraid of anything, what one of my colleagues said earlier about the opposition's hyper-production. I would also like hyper-production by the Government to prepare now on the basis of this tomorrow's debate on the exit strategy, including the documents that will implement this exit strategy. This is what I would like from the hyper-productivity of the Government and the coalition and all of us, who are responsible for the development of Slovenia, in order to help small companies in particular, so that there will not be such a big problem with these minimum wages and the like. Unfortunately, we are going to break up today without any special conclusion, but the debate itself, I hope it will give something positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Yes, I have listened to this subject several times before, or on the Committee on Local Self-Government, and I almost have to make an assessment that I was a little confused because the subject was not given as I expected, but it was everything else. So it is true, as the minister says, that mixing pears and apples, or perhaps something, is simply operating on incorrect data, even though it is probably the intention of some manipulation of all these matters. We all want the calls to be what they must be, just like the one that was published. But in fact, it is necessary to say that if I tried to define in general if I tried to define 2007 in general, 2008, the negative balance. Negative balance sheet. 2009 is a positive balance sheet. This is the conclusion of this debate, and I am pleased that anyone else will draw any positive thinking out of this, any positive message that calls and, in general, pumps can be improved in the coming years. This is a general message. Otherwise, it is purely a negative business, or a negative balance, if taken in 2007, 2008; then it is a meaningless debate and evaluation of the former government and the current government. Let's move on with our joint strengths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. She's not here. Mr. Janez Fishich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Today's debate will certainly contribute to a more successful use of European funds, but it is not a waste of time, as some have said. I think, as I said before, that we must gather so much wisdom and somehow get together in such important matters and talk and look for ways to better come to this draw. First of all, I ask the Minister why is the construction project of sewerage, which is of regional importance in Podravje, worth 49 million, still not confirmed? The application was submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Space in January 2008. Then I would just like to say a few views and perhaps point out the simplification of procedures for drawing on European funds in new calls or calls, as we now call them. Something has already been said today regarding the obligation to obtain a building permit when applying for a tender. This one seems absurd to me, actually, because the invitation is three years old. The municipality must already have a building permit for a project to be carried out in 2012, with the Ministry of Local Self-Government completely ignoring the fact that the building permit will cease if you do not start construction within two years. In such cases, the municipalities will have to renew the building permit, which completely destroys the building permit requirement at the time of the application. Does anyone wonder how much it will cost, if they have to pay the congregations and work in stock? The implementation plans will require regions to obtain a positive opinion from the Government Office for Local Self-Government, otherwise municipalities in this region will not be able to prepare projects. The opinion will be issued on the basis of an external expert opinion. We've talked about this before today. Who and how will appoint these experts to ensure their political independence, who will ensure that these same experts are not involved in the preparation of projects? Who other than the competent authorities of the region could decide on the development priorities of the region? So far, the practice of prioritisation by statutory bodies is being eliminated. The applications will no longer be reviewed by employees of the Government Service, but by external experts. What costs will be incurred in this regard and from which source will they be financed? Let us hope that it is not to the detriment of regions or congregations. Who will ensure equal treatment of applications if the applications are evaluated by several experts? Complementation of the investment document is practically not allowed. In previous calls, when it was permissible for municipalities to fix possible "lapsuses" in investment documents, however, the effectiveness of the applications was less than 50%. What kind of ransom do you promise now that every role will fly away with a minor error? Or will it be possible, of course, to supplement at an informal level for those who will be close to the so-called external peer reviewers? An integral part of the application documentation is also the statement by the municipality's investor that the operation under application is not included in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for 2007, 2013 and so on. Your Honor! Finally, we can only conclude that both public tenders, despite the so-called shortcomings and inadequacies of the previous six public tenders, are very similar to those of the previous six. However, the changes that have been introduced are not for the benefit of the beneficiaries and nor for the benefit of the further coherent regional development of our strong and increasingly centralised countries. Highly sung simplifications may have been heard in theory, but in practice it is already very clear that they are obstacles rather than no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. He's not here. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! During the 2004-2006 programming period, Slovenia from the European Funds has very well drawn and absorbed 95% of the cohesion fund funds and 90% of the other funds. During the period 2007-2008, the former Government published four regional incentives and two for the border area with Croatia. 450 projects were confirmed. And today, some of you are boasting, or this government, often with good drawing in 2009 and a positive balance in 2009, I don't know what this government has to do with it, because it hasn't done much in this area. This is due to previous calls, previous governments and projects launched before 2009. For the next period 2007-2013, Slovenia has negotiated a very good cake, will pay only 3 billion and will draw 5. At the end of the previous government's term of office, the Commissioner found that Slovenia was one of the first Member States whose programmes were adopted, that the Slovenian audit system was adequate and that it was well administratively capable of implementing cohesion policy funds. On this basis, a letter of confidence was also signed for the European Commission, where Slovenia, as one of the few countries, also signed such a letter. This has been found by the European Commission, its representatives, who we know are very precise about how European Union funds are spent. At the same time, our Court of Auditors has identified a number of irregularities, as identified by Mrs Jerina herself, who led the national coordination of the EU aid within the Government, and coordinated negotiations with the European Commission to conclude almost 30 financial memoranda and then led the negotiations. In 2003, she became Secretary of State at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, where she was primarily responsible for European cohesion policy. We'd expect her to set up a very strong system at this time, where we'll be able to pump things perfectly. Well, after our government's performance, the lady went to the Court of Auditors and then revised these things, which she was supposed to have prepared, and, as I said, found a whole bunch of irregularities unlike the European Commission, which found that the audit system was fine and that things were going well. And given that Mrs State Secretary is now with the Prime Minister of this Government, with Minister Gaspari, where she is responsible for development and European affairs together with him, we would expect, given that she is a great connoisseur, that we will increase enormously during this time or with her coming to the Ministry of European Resources drawing, but not that we are always worse. As with most things, instead of burdening the administrations, we put an extra burden on them. It was mentioned that projects must have a building permit. The standard for your coalition - to make things as complicated as possible, so that as little as possible will have to be done. And probably because there were a lot of experts who were more professional than Minister Plosteinareva, who probably wouldn't be allowed to command and promised that the call would take place on 30 June, 30 September, and none of this happened, the ministry probably also left. To be honest, the new minister, if there were no such pressure from the opposition parties, especially the SLS and us, probably even this call, would not have met these two new ones. The result of this government, so your government in 2009, is nothing, since no call was issued last year, which was expected by the congregations in spite of all the promises. We have also proposed a law on the construction of priority road and rail sections. The third and fourth development axis was foreseen at EUR 1.3 million. You've deleted all of this. At a time of crisis, when constructionists have nothing to do when expensive machines stand, when they forgive, you draw on projects that would bring new jobs, reduce the backlog of certain regions and so on. Why aren't you getting away with it? Since the patronate has been taken over by someone else, not by a minister or minister in charge of regional development and reducing differences between regions. At the beginning of the mandate, the European Commission has warned you that the reorganisation will require more people, a larger administration, and people will only have to learn what to call the service. Instead, you adopt an intervention law for Pomurje to give a job to one member of the largest coalition party you have not had anywhere to give. I will support the conclusions proposed and propose to the Government that it be activated in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Again, the claim was made, or I am slowly running out of imagination to respond to such claims. But I'll try. Status 31. 12. 2008, certified claims for reimbursement to the European Commission, this is the drawback when we get back nothing. Status 31. 12. 2009: 206 million 735 thousand. We can't even calculate the percentage of the increase here, because if you share anything, it's infinite. However, we can go to the submitted applications for reimbursement to the certifying authority, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, state 31. 12. 2008: 50 million. Status 31. 12. 2009: 434 million 776 thousand, increase 765%. So, let's say another of my efforts to show that we are trying to improve the process itself, to try to pump or make the procedure optimal, to draw the maximum amount of money that the previous government has negotiated. However, to keep on saying that pumping is bad, as I said in the introduction, everything a person does can do better. Everything I as a minister do or the government's job, we can do better. And I hope that we will do better, and I hope that you will also see that, above all, professionally, not politically, especially professionally, we are working in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u98	Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Of course, today's debate is also varied and interesting. In fact, given that I was present in the entire debate on this point, I could write down a lot of things that seemed interesting to me. First of all, it seemed interesting to me that in the comments of the colleague of the proposal there had also been a conflict of interest several times, depending on which side he looked at the matter, so I do not resent it; he is also in the Chamber all the time. I wanted to ask my colleague Pecanovo because at this meeting she was almost somehow accused of what she had done wrong, and she told me herself a few minutes ago that the court had already found twice that she had not done anything illegal during the mayor’s term or anyone else in her municipal administration. Therefore, I find it unfair to discredit anyone in the hall, especially when he is not present. That is why I suggest that this is not done, as my colleague has said several times today that no one should be offended and so on, but that everything depends on the context. One of the colleagues even talked about the "removal" of Mrs State Secretary. I believe that this - well, now I see the Minister in the Chamber - in this way it is not right to do so, so to attack people in this Chamber. When it comes to affairs, it is also interesting - because, for example, as a bank I know the banking system myself, it seems to me that the production of some affairs or I don't know what, and then also at the level of debate and debate on the largest state bank, that this is also some kind of discredit and can also be one of the causes of the later failure of the bank and the banking system. Therefore, I propose that the debate here also actually discusses what it holds, not just at the beginning. Even today's findings were that some things needed to be looked back and said correctly, if there was a net deficit, there was no surplus, so let's not work here now and therefore also when it was said, because this is not the result of this government, in fact the deficit has been from the previous period and I do not resent it, and I agree that we need to look forward now, but not forget the fact that there have been such positive effects of certain measures, as well as negative ones. Of course, let me say that when I have reviewed, looked at, and, together with my fellow proposer in the Committee on Local Self-Government, several times I have been present in discussions on the drawing up of European funds, I recall his even slightly more emotional performance as to how it was not possible to implement the project because of the difficulties in spatial planning and the adoption of spatial acts and that the question is whether such a project could even come to life. I am therefore surprised by his desire for this sitting today and I am not sure whether today's debate has been very productive and effective. In particular, I agree that it has been unproductive for the Minister himself, who I think has clearly defined objectives and in what way these objectives have been achieved within his department and ministry, together with his fellow workers, so I think that even some of the hours spent here may have been of little use to him, perhaps more with the mayors yesterday, perhaps some of the indignant debates today are not very useful. Of course, I am sure that there will also be a number of criteria for the development of the regions in the context of the calls for proposals. A colleague of Pacanova spoke about the criteria being, but they were different or somehow special. I have to agree myself. In fact, I can see for myself in the South-Eastern Slovenia area that the number of municipalities is very large and after we speak of the White Krajina, Bela Krajina was automatically voted out and therefore deprived, and as the Prime Minister of the Government said on Friday, along with the ministerial team, that it was an area, both Kočevsko-Ribinski and White Krajina, "devasted". So it's just that if we go straight to the term "debastation," it's that this area, not to say, is devastated, it's actually somehow been neglected. And now, as the colleague of Jeraeva said earlier about which government, I do not want to blame the former government for this, but that we do not have a road in one area, not in the Kočevsko-fishing region, nor in the White landscape, a quality transport connection with Central Slovenia, that is probably what Tanko and I know very well when we are driving. Therefore, I think that here, in any way, I don't know if it's good, but it's right that we're real and that we admit that there's a step forward here, unfortunately, he didn't. But we are all those who are driving around these areas, the victims, and that in terms of regional development criteria and the distribution of funds and calls, something similar is happening in the past mandate, that there was no possibility of reporting, say, the construction of libraries that would employ three or four more people to make a better move in a particular area, and I have such a problem, too. And now this government and this ministry will obviously not be able to fix all of this, unfortunately, in some way missed. Therefore, let us also be realistic here and take this efficiency of drawing on European funds in a positive sense, that obviously it has not always been the most effective and that it has not been now. But I am sure that with a measure such as now, the two tenders are outside, I am convinced that the Spatial Planning Act and all the other spatial ones, that is, related to the Ministry of Environment and Space. The delays that have now brought us here so that perhaps any project across all areas in Slovenia will not be able to be realized precisely because of this great weakness. I cannot support the proposal by myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Mr. Secretary wants a word? No, no, no. Thank you. Proposer? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! To comment on some of the particulars that were not correct. Although I do not know what part he would have referred to or would have been a conflict of interest, it is true that the conflict of interest was by Mrs Andreje Jerina's current Secretary of State, because she led the entire SVR project for use for the period 2004-2006. And it is true that it was quite unsuccessful at the time, but the project was initially at the request for reimbursement, then, as a judge in the Court of Auditors, it identified all irregularities, in citing irregularities that were not, in fact, specific, except for a few individual cases which do not belong to the whole system package and, of course, the conflict of interest regarding the site was, as has already been seen in the letter. With Minister Gaspari in Brussels, she wanted to convince the Commissioner once again that they would transfer all three operational programmes to individual ministries. Someone, so it was said that someone was talking about removing the Secretary of State. I think that this has been said by the coalition, but if it has been on my part, once again I stress that it is absolutely necessary to do so, so to remove Mrs Jerino, State Secretary, from the City of State, because, of course, she has nothing to look for here. The Slovenian national party even filed a complaint against her, which I think is perfectly fine. Of course, we'll talk about this tomorrow, about the exit strategy. So this power is also predicted, a change in operational programmes. Minister, will you come to the National Assembly for consent or will another secretary of state do so under the rug? So we'll just find out from Brussels what you've done. And of course, if you're going to change operational programmes, you've been told in Brussels that it's 12 to 18 months before you're all set up and, of course, you're going to get consent, etc. And today, and of course I will repeat all these, two and a half years, by the end of the 2012 term, January, I will ask you how much of that billion 666 have been exhausted, so returned applications from the Brussels cash register to the Slovenian cash register. I can conclude in a way that you wanted to tarnish the previous government, but it was found that the transparency of the previous government in the tenders was more than obvious because you have no document to say otherwise. Secondly, you can truly be ashamed that for a year, you have been a government coalition and not a minister, a government coalition, blocking the next calls for a year and I expect that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Pukšič, I would like to tell you in the end just something that there will be no disagreement. In your debate, when there were few Members in the Chamber, you touched two Members: Mrs Pačan, Mr Jerič, who were not present. Your debate was not entirely in this regard either, it was not about today's agenda. It was therefore not right for you to make a name for the Members who were not in the Chamber. That is why I also rejected the replica requested by Mrs Pecan. Please, let's stick to this another time. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. I can't give a replica to someone who wasn't in the hall. But I would ask those who are you not to mention those who are not in the hall. Thank you. This concludes the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a decision of the home working body in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today, as part of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear President! In line with current practice, we should probably give time that has not been spent in the debate. I think that this would be correct, because unfortunately, especially the ministry or the Government of the time announced did not make use of it, the remaining half of the time, including some other parliamentary groups that are very much involved in regional development, has not been used at this time. And it would be wise for you to share this time that you have left. I don't think it's completely anything in conflict with the Rules of Procedure. This has been the case so far, the practice has always been when we had a general debate on laws or acts. Then you can continue to decide when this first round will be divided in accordance with the practice so far, and also decide in the way you have just said, otherwise it makes sense to divide this time and that we will also be sharing this time, this hour, which is not used, into the debate and we will also give our opinion on these matters that we have on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u105	However, I must say that I am not satisfied with the modest answers. I am also not satisfied with the debates of some fellow Members, because they have also addressed and named those who have not yet debated without having any reason or argument to do so. And also for these reasons, I suggest you take the time to do what is simply gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I cannot agree with this request or proposal because, under Article 34 of the Law, it is not appropriate, which is why the College of Presidents of the National Assembly has also decided. And please don't embarrass me now. There is only something that I note that there were only 10 Members at this important point at some point in time, and that there was only 10 Members of Parliament for quite some time. Mr. Puksich, what do you want? Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just fix some clues that aren't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u108	No, no, no, Mr. Pukšič, we're not going to debate anything. Do you have a procedural proposal or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u110	Please tell him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u111	Mr Vice-President, my procedural proposal is that things take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure do not state that a Member or Member may mention Members or Members who are not in the Chamber. I have mentioned only so much and in such a context as Mrs Pecanova mentioned a farmer who gave land to a trading network.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I won't answer to you. I think I've told you everything. One more time, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. If a decision has been taken on the working body, as you have put forward for discussion by the National Assembly, then, in accordance with the practice so far, there could not be a debate by Members, but only the views of the members of the groups. I propose that, because a non-business decision has been reached, this point, which is not in line with current practice and the Rules of Procedure, should also be followed up and the rest of the time should be allocated to Members wishing to discuss this point. This applies to all debates, to all acts and so on. There is no reason, Mr President, for you to introduce some unanimity when this point is being addressed simply because someone does not want to hear certain matters that are related and are important in dealing with this point. I suggest that you share the rest of the time with practice so far. And that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and the coalition majority to prevent discussions on important things for this country. After all, it's a major asset, a major asset. For the first time, we have a noticeable difference in what the EU is supposed to give us. This financial perspective is the first to have an important difference between the payments and the possibilities for drawing and, ultimately, the delays we are witnessing are not proud of this government coalition. I suggest you take your time and let us discuss this. Mr Gaspari, who has caused this delay that this has not been exhausted to this day, has not spoken a word today to say anything about the legitimate reasons. There's another job, an incident, and it happened in another department. It is necessary to talk about these things easily and to say and get reasonable reasons, not to use this coalition position, the coalition power to prevent the debate. That can't be proud of you. We are extremely quick to issue some decisions, and I don't know, to return dangerous animals, but when we want to have a discussion here, procedural complications for two months are not going to happen. That's amazing, amazing stories. Mr President, I propose that you share the time that has now always been the case in general debates when time has not run out. Otherwise, I would like to know why there has even been a debate between Members, since this has never been the case with the established conclusions of the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Since you have told the honourable President, I would ask you not to tell me again that I am abusing the Rules of Procedure or that I am using even police methods, as I have heard. Please, don't insult me that way again. As far as your proposal is concerned, let me finish, Mr Pukšič, I would say that the very proposal of what we have discussed today does not provide for a discussion under the Rules of Procedure. At the College where you, Mr Tanko, were also present, it was exceptionally decided that the debate would be without further ado at this point. And please allow me, because this is the conclusion of the College, I advise you to ask that at the next meeting of the College. I am doing what was done at the College, which is why I am breaking this point and closing it or breaking this agenda. We're moving on. Please, Mr. Pukšič, please, you used to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u115	Vice President, thank you very much. I suggest, procedurally, that the time remaining be allocated. Explain why I suggest it. The President refers to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the decision is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. You asked us to come up with a proposal. The Rules of Procedure of Articles 122 and 128 refer to the law. And since a change was requested from the decision in the proposal, the President cannot refer to these two articles, which are simply contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, there is no reason why 30 Members of the National Assembly under the Constitution have the right to request an extraordinary meeting in order not to spend the time at their disposal. However, at the outset, I said that we had requested an extraordinary meeting to be convened on 12 January of this year. I therefore procedurally suggest that the time left at your disposal be allocated to Members and Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u116	I have already responded to such a proposal twice by now, if I am not mistaken, even for the third time and once again I am responding, and I cannot do so and thus interrupt this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A MINIMUM PAYMENT LAW, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u117	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed minimum wage law is the result of the need to better regulate the area of minimum wage than that resulting from the applicable law. Among the shortcomings of the current arrangements that we are removing, it is particularly important to stress the inadequate level of minimum wage and the inadequate method of coordination. To a greater extent than ever before, the draft law also takes into account the requirements of the Convention and the international organisation of work on minimum wages and requirements of other international instruments. The main solutions to the proposed law are as follows. The law lays down a new amount of minimum wage at a level which takes into account the basket of minimum living needs. It provides a decent life for an employee who works part-time. The proposed amount of EUR 734.15 in net amount amounts to EUR 562 as far as the Institute for Economic Research estimates the value of a basket of minimum living needs. There is a new method of coordination that ensures at least that the real value of the minimum wage is maintained, as harmonisation takes into account the actual increase in prices of living needs over the past year and not merely an assessment of expected growth as provided for by the applicable law. The word "minimum" also gives the possibility for the social partners to agree to increase the minimum wage if possible to take account of the movements referred to in Article 3. As regards the content or definition of minimum wage, this remains unchanged. This was also a particular requirement of the employer's side. It is maintained that the minimum wage is fixed by the Minister or Minister responsible for work after prior consultation with the social partners. Transitional provisions allow for a gradual transition to the payment of higher minimum wages for employers facing major difficulties and the immediate payment of the amount of the minimum wage could jeopardise the existence of an undertaking or require the dismissal of a larger number of workers. Such an employer shall conclude a written agreement with the staff or with their representative within two months at the latest. In doing so, it must take into account the amounts set by law for the transitional period. The following month after its entry into force, the minimum wage may be paid at least EUR 654.69 and, as of January of next year, the worker must pay at least EUR 685.25.25 for the increase in the price of living needs in this year. However, the agreement must be notified by the Labour Inspectorate, who exercises control over the law. The law establishing the minimum wage, i.e. the existing law, with the exception of the article referring to the guaranteed wage, also ceases to apply with the application of this law. It remains in force until the amendment of the rule governing pension and disability insurance. The guaranteed salary, which currently amounts to EUR 237,73 gross, is used under the applicable pension insurance law as a basis for the payment of contributions from insured persons wishing to be insured for the lowest rights. The law shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal and shall apply to the payment of salaries for work carried out from the first day of the following month following its entry into force. This means that if the law is adopted and published in February, employers are obliged to pay the minimum wage after this law has been established for the month of March. In addition, let me add that the aim of this law is to eliminate poverty among employees, so that their income rises to a level, so that they can cover the minimum cost of living, so that this law will also affect the raising of monetary compensations for unemployed persons who are considered too low. However, the price for this is, as has been estimated in the debate, a loss of a certain number of jobs, which we estimate to be reasonable at this stage and to be those jobs where wages are so low that employees cannot normally spend or cover their lives with them. This will significantly improve the situation of the lowest income levels of employees and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We understand or expect that then our social partners will also take this into account when amending other legislation. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Ljub Germić to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 15th emergency meeting, on 9. 2. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a minimum wage law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following an urgent procedure. The urgency procedure was decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 52nd meeting and decided that the proposal for a minimum wage law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the proposer, the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and also received an opinion from the Commission on the economy, tourism and finance of the State Council, which supported the proposal. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups, namely the articles prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on Article 8. The Committee also received proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Association of Banks of Slovenia to Article 8 and to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for a new Article 11, which was accepted as a proposal for an amendment to the Committee for a new Article 10a by a member of the Committee, Marijan Pojbič, but was not accepted by the Committee. In an additional presentation, the representative of the applicants stressed that the aim of the proposed law is to ensure more appropriate legal arrangements for minimum wage. The law follows the principle that workers who receive a minimum wage must also be guaranteed a decent life. The draft law sets the minimum wage for work carried out from the first day of the following month following the entry into force of the law at EUR 734.15, which in net amount means the value of a basket of minimum living needs, according to the study of the Institute of Economic Research at the Faculty of Economics. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their opinion was in the direction of improving the legal text, which was also largely achieved by the proposals for amendments to the Committee following their opinion. In doing so, it laid down the principle of certainty, which requires that the rules be clear and unambiguous, which they did not consider to be in Article 3. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 8 of the draft law. In the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled, it was stressed by all the discussers that they supported the bill. At the same time, some discussers felt that the proposal for a law was bad, that the Government did not take social partners into account and should seek solutions that would encourage economic operators and entrepreneurs. Others stressed, however, that the solutions proposed are good within the scope of the proposed option. In the debate on Articles 3, 4 and 5, the view was expressed that indicators for determining the amount of the minimum wage were insufficiently defined. The issue of the obligation to take these indicators into account in coordinating the content of the conditions remains unresolved, as the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out in its opinion. The representative of the Government stressed that the content of Article 3 is set out in accordance with International Labour Organisation Convention No 131 on Minimum Wage. However, the law provides a precise way of taking into account the rising prices of living needs. The content of Article 3 gives the possibility for ministers, after consultation with the social partners, to decide otherwise to harmonise the minimum wage with price growth if other data show such movements so that only direct alignment with price growth would not be appropriate. The majority of the debaters considered that the provision of Article 3 encouraged social dialogue and therefore did not have to be more specific. With regard to Articles 4 and 5, they agreed that the articles would be open and that the provisions could therefore be supplemented by a meeting of the National Assembly. A further discussion was also held on Article 8 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group proposing the minimum wage of EUR 794. In order to avoid the dismissal of workers, taxes and contributions paid from wages are reduced to the amount of the current minimum wage, thus making employers less burdensome than they are now. The amendment became irrelevant due to the adoption of the amendment to Article 8 and the content is also not consistent with the new Article 3a. In the framework of the proposal for the amendment of the Committee of Members Marijan Pojbič, a longer discussion was also held for a new Article 10a, in which the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises proposed a gradual coordination of the basis for the calculation of social security contributions for self-employed persons. The Committee on the Amendment of the Committee did not adopt the proposal. In the context of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to the SD, Res, DeSUS, LDS to Article 1, for the new Articles 3a, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 8 has become irrelevant. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 5. The Committee then voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With the amendments included, the draft text is submitted for today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. A few too long. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Honourable Vice-President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A low level of minimum wage, which is lower than the value of a basket of minimum living costs and does not allow decent survival for many in Slovenia, is the main reason for the consideration and adoption of the minimum wage law. With the proposal of the law, the Government is firmly responding to the question of what jobs we want and allow in Slovenia. So those who ensure that a worker who works honestly can also survive with dignity and honesty. We know that there is a great deal of agreement among employees that such arrangements are necessary and necessary. At the same time, it is right that there is the same agreement and awareness among the employees that this action can also lead to a loss of employment for a short period of time. On the other hand, this decision also puts direct pressure on faster development and transformation of Slovenian companies to ensure production with such added value that will allow workers not only minimal but in particular the real standard of living adjusted wages. The time for such decisive moves was delayed by the previous government in the pre-economic crisis period, when a number of successful companies would have been much easier to pass on these and other necessary but not implemented measures that would have allowed Slovenia’s workers to participate directly in business success. The identification of reputable statesmen and socio-economic theorists as to the consequences of the current economic crisis is that capitalism after this economic crisis will never again be the same as it was. Many self-determinations are questioned, and among them there is certainly also the concept of corporate governance and the need for democratisation within businesses. In the world, for several decades now, with extreme haste, there have been major changes in the socio-economic reality as we move from the post-industrial to the information society and the knowledge society, where the educational level of employees rises sharply. Such far-reaching changes in the structure of the population and the nature of their work bring with them the need for different social participation in companies. In Slovenia, these changes have not yet been reflected in developmental changes and search for more appropriate business concepts, ways of managing and relations between labour and knowledge holders and capital bearers, it is said, between employees and owners. In the Group of Members, we therefore point out that economic democracy is one of the answers to these changes. It represents a way of managing businesses based on the efficient use of human capital and the full involvement of human capital also enhances the efficiency and efficiency of business operations. Employees who are treated and paid only as labour costs, but not as the most important potential business source, are also in fact acting only as a workforce in the business process, without their own self-interest for the optimal engagement of all their working and creative capacities for business purposes. Especially today’s knowledge workers, whose work needs are no longer largely material in nature, are also meeting personal and social needs in the company. Therefore, it is no longer possible to effectively motivate and obtain their organizational membership only by paying. Such needs of people in the field of labour can be effectively met only through highly developed forms of organisational or economic participation of employees, including through participation in management, participation in profits and the possibility of internal ownership or co-ownership in the capital of enterprises that together form the concept of economic democracy. The basic prerequisite for the enforcement of economic democracy is, however, an adequate and decent minimum wage. Only with it can we start to think about the elements of ethics, the involvement of employees. Only then can we begin to find answers to the changes in the education structure of the population and the emerging knowledge society, where so much different needs arise, not only the material motivation of individuals, but also the need for increased organisational and economic participation of employees. With these objectives, we will really support the draft law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In our view, raising the minimum wage is essential to improve the social situation of the most vulnerable population and, of course, gives them a chance to survive. At the same time, we are convinced that this decision or measure must be followed by other necessary measures to enable the economy to emerge from the crisis. The increase in minimum wage is seen as a short-term and urgent measure, followed by more fundamental moves if we want to draw the train forward and the long-term better results. The possible consequences of raising the minimum wage level by 22% lead, of course, to additional pressures on wage increases in higher tariff classes and negative responses in employers who may be able to produce capacity to move to a different, more friendly economic environment or to shut down business. This would result in reverse effects from the desired ones, resulting in a reduction in the number of jobs and new expenditure on social welfare for unemployed workers in the employment institution. Therefore, despite the urgency of this measure, it is necessary to be careful and to take other appropriate steps immediately. Despite long-standing efforts, we can find that the entrepreneurial environment is still unfavourable for us, especially for small and medium-sized and micro-enterprises, which should be a potential for new jobs. Surely, the proposal for amendments to the Income Act is one of these steps that helps to deplete the economy, while others are needed. The question is whether we would not achieve a greater impact if, instead of further burdening the employer's side, we approach a more consistent non-discriminatory and, above all, more effective way of tax collection for all taxpayers, including some privileged groups with special tax status. We hope that the Government is aware of the seriousness of the situation in which the Slovenian economy is located and that it will take a more comprehensive approach to the preparation and implementation of labour law and effectively support the enterprise sector in its efforts to create added value. In view of the economic picture, which shows that more is being spent than is being created, there is a real danger of increasingly mass bankruptcy of companies. The government's job is to act. In the Group of Members, as I pointed out in the introduction, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u125	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A nice greeting is given to the Minister with a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues. More than justly, everyone who works must earn a more decent and quality life. But what does it mean to live with dignity? Is it possible to live with dignity if your already hard-earned income is below the threshold of poverty? Is it worthy that you can't afford a basket of minimum living needs? The amount of minimum wage in Slovenia today is such that its recipients are classified as social categories, which is not in the spirit of any of the payments in the flood of the masses of social charters and international contracts, of which our country is also a signatory. Among the 20 European countries that have a statutory minimum wage, Slovenia is now ranked in the gold market, but is still far behind those countries where the minimum income is over 1,000 euros. The minimum wage is a point around which, in particular in an adverse economic situation, a major conflict takes place in each society. Each side draws a rope in its direction and the fight for minimum wage is today, unfortunately, declared everywhere as a political struggle. The government has, in our opinion, decided in the right direction on the issue of dealing with minimum income from work. The establishment of the Institute of Minimum Wage has been equivalent and, despite the still critical situation in the economy, has adapted to the expectations of both workers and employers. Workers who are recipients of the statutory minimum wages will thus earn about EUR 100 per month more than before on the basis of this proposal and thus achieve a reduction in the payment of the basket by setting a new minimum wage. In order for employers to avoid serious problems, which, last but not least, could mean inequity and mass forgiveness, the inclusion of the possibility of gradual transition to a new level of minimum wage is an appropriate solution that will convince or at least mitigate the increase in the number of unemployed. Thus, all the forward guesses about how many workers' dismissals will result in an increase in labour costs are superfluous. Also because the country will take on a large part of the burden for the benefit of employers in the form of a change in the income regime. The law also provides for a different solution to harmonise the minimum wage, which we believe is better. The introduction of minimum wage growth will be conditional on real increases in the prices of living needs. However, this primary way of coordinating with actual price increases will be possible to repair or upgrade if other data show such movements that only direct pricing arrangements would not be appropriate. Thus, other factors can be taken into account after consultation with the social partners - wage movement, economic growth, the movement of unemployment. The financial implications of this law for the state budget are to take into account all transfers and refunds linked to the minimum wage and to the increase in the salaries of those civil servants who receive the minimum wage, estimated at around €19 million this year. The other consequences of this law are likely to be pressure to increase the salaries of two groups of employees. Those employees who have a higher salary than is now the minimum but lower one, as proposed, and those who receive a salary slightly higher than the proposed minimum wage. Thus, the concentration of low wage payments around the minimum wage is already relatively high and will continue to increase once the law is in force. However, I should point out, however, that, due to the tax and co-contributory avoidance of employers, the real number of recipients of minimum wages and wages is slightly higher than the minimum substantially lower, as official data show. Therefore, our assessment does not suggest that, on this occasion, when we are talking about the problem of the lowest incomes, we appeal to the competent to take an active and strict approach to solving this problem. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian National Party, we are very pleased that the legislative procedure for the adoption of this law has finally taken place. The reasons for the adoption and implementation of this Act are fully justified. The current low level of minimum wage has not even reached the value of a basket of minimum living costs, which amounted to more than the value of the guaranteed minimum wage in the previous year, which is approximately. 460 euros. We fully agree with the objective of the proposed law on the principle that workers with a minimum wage will also be guaranteed a decent life. Unfortunately, given the high cost of living in the Republic of Slovenia, we doubt that now the eligible beneficiaries of the minimum wage will begin to live in abundance. However, it is true that even a net of EUR 100 can help someone at least sometimes financially break through the month. And this will only be possible gradually by means of a transitional solution in the law, by aligning the minimum wage with the legal level due to the threat posed by some employers who may be in great difficulty. We believe that with appropriate measures, the Government will have to understand and take into account such a danger to the existence of some employers, as a rule probably smaller craftsmen, but certainly not a variety of wholesalers, greedy managers, owners of companies that exploit and insensitively exploit thousands of powerless workers, supermarket vendors and greedy profits in their pockets. And it is here that we expect the current authorities to finally end such inhuman neoliberalist capitalism and the greed of modern capitalists, rich people, of whom many are known to have made use of transitional time and inadequate and inconsistent legislation, without any capitalist tradition, responsibility or, if you wish, financial ownership pedigree in the role of exploiting another and serving wealth in the stings of simple workers. It is the duty and responsibility of the current authorities to step on the fingers of such exploiters of workers who go in their greed, even if necessary, over the body of their own people. Finally, after the elections, some of you received a mandate to rule on the basis of the promise of strict respect for the constitutional principle of a social just state, not to mention the promised 1,000 euros in salary and pension for each worker or pensioner. Although we do not have the best opinion in the Slovenian National Party on the leadership and management of various Slovenian trade unions, trade unions, where, as a rule, leading trade unions tend to take care of themselves rather than for workers who properly fill the union cash register, have finally settled down and duly pressed on the authority that had to give in to the threat of the street or the people's events. However, we expect trade unionists and employers to continue to discuss wage policy in a collective agreement regulating wage coordination, regression and compensation with work-related costs for workers who do not have a collective agreement. It is rightly expected that the biggest wage dilemma is that only by increasing the wage base will it go on indefinitely. A collective agreement covering everything is urgently needed. There are approximately cca in the private sector in collective agreements. 450 000 workers, with an average salary of almost €1300 last year and a minimum wage of almost 40,000 workers. However, it is interesting to note that over 20,000 employees without a collective agreement received an average paid salary of EUR 3500. So, the data that makes you think. If I conclude the position of the Slovenian National Party by saying that we welcome the rise in the minimum wage and also expect appropriate measures in the pension area, where the situation of thousands of pensioners, who are already threatened by pensioners, is even worse and really sad. At the same time, if we think of objective weaknesses, their situation is compared to young, healthy workers, who in some ways can still be further broken from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again. In the LDS Club we understand the Minimum Wage Act as one of the first measures of the so-called exit strategy. This is a positive and both structurally and symbolically important step towards not just keeping the strategy on paper, which we have witnessed in the past. In the LDS Club, we are convinced that the Minimum Wages Act is following the most important objective in our view, and this is to ensure adequate pay for the work done, which provides a decent life for the person. Those who don't see people having a hard time living are closing their eyes. On a macro-level rise, the minimum wage is directly aimed at increasing social cohesion and indirectly at creating new, better-paid jobs. In the LDS, we believe that raising the minimum wage is a necessary measure to make work more valuable and to prevent poverty. A man who does what is right must not be poor. However, it is not only a social measure, but it will also affect a certain restructuring of the economy. The essential components of the law that we welcome and highlight in the LDS are the raising of the minimum wage to the minimum cost of living, namely EUR 562, which is significantly higher than the EUR 460 minimum wage currently paid, and secondly, the substantial improvement in the harmonisation of the minimum wage, where it will be coordinated once a year, at least with the growth of living needs. In the LDS, we are aware that minimum wages may also have certain undesirable consequences and the loss of a job. We therefore believe and point out that the minimum wage should be only one in a set of measures that will accelerate economic restructuring and a more favourable economic climate. In order to achieve this objective, it must also be followed by the adoption of other measures, both on the side of a more effective active employment policy, training, increasing the security of the labour market, as well as by accelerating economic growth and creating new jobs, with knowledge of related jobs. This is the only way we will be able to witness a successful transition and an expected economic breakthrough. In support of the rise of the minimum wage, it must be pointed out that the processes of the past that have led us to this point must not and cannot continue. The fact that numbers teach us must be highlighted. Thus, in 2006 the minimum wage was lagging behind the nominal growth of the private sector's gross wage by a good two percentage points, in 2007 by a poor four and a half percentage points. In 2007, the minimum wage even fell by more than a percentage. As a result of such movements, the minimum wage has also fallen significantly to the average wage, totalling almost three percentage points in both years. As a result, the law needed to be amended as a result of the excessive backlog of the minimum wage by increasing prices in 2008. On the basis of these data, it is all the more understandable that we are today adopting this law and exposing some relationship to those who, despite the work they are doing, are now at risk of poverty. And for LDS, the message is clear: Slovenia must not be a poor country. Therefore, in the LDS, we reiterate that, despite the tight economic conditions, such a measure is necessary as it will allow for a minimum decent life. Such a measure is also an important message at the symbolic level, namely, that we give people the confidence and the feeling that it is worth doing, that it is a work of value, that they can live from work and not live. The missed opportunities from the past will not be quickly compensated, but the process of investing in research and development, in particular quality education, will need to be completed, transformed and accelerated in linking knowledge institutions with the economy. At this point, all citizens will have to make a mental conversion, including managers and owners. Their objective should not be to own and exhaust businesses, but rather to promote development, to make new technological improvements and to create jobs. We therefore expect the Government in the National Assembly to take the necessary measures to ensure this start-up of the economy, both from the exit strategy and from those that may still need to be designed to achieve this objective. Last but not least, Members of the LDS Club believe that it is essential to stress that the state also assumes its part of the responsibility and to reject the evidence that the burden of increasing the minimum wage on the economy alone is being borne. In fact, this enables businesses to gradually move to minimum wages and changes to the Income Act, where additional general relief is increasing. Because of everything that's been said, we're going to be married at the LDS Club. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They're backing us up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Is it working now?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u131	Yeah, but then I'd politely ask if you could fix me the time I've lost now because of this problem. One more time that he's in a magnetogram. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, with fellow Members, Members and Members. The Social Democrats will support the proposal for a minimum wage law, but let me say some arguments and views on the minimum wage law. This year, the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion has been declared, and the Social Democrats have always raised their voices to eradicate poverty from society. Even at the time of the year of the fat cows, we would say, and we have not already overlooked the information that under the threshold of poverty it is also possible to detect those employees who receive fewer full-time jobs than a certain threshold of poverty. We therefore welcomed the efforts of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, who recalculated the cost of living, just as he did a study by the Economic Institute at the Faculty of Economics in order to establish a minimum wage law and set EUR 562 net for the necessary basket of essential living needs as a criterion necessary for the survival of one person or one-member household. Since its entry into force in 2006, the applicable minimum wage law has been subject to a lot of criticism mainly due to inadequate coordination. At that time, an assessment of the expected growth of living needs was used. However, this can be very controversial in particular during economic shocks and rapid changes, and because this has proved problematic not only when high inflation is, but also in the event of major economic shocks, it seems very appropriate for the Ministry of Labour to come with a correction of the level of the minimum wage and a different way of coordinating it at that time. In the public, the requirements for a change in the minimum wage were most evident in trade protests. There was a requirement of 600 euros as an appropriate amount for minimum wage. At the same time, this trade union requirement also raised the demand of employers to raise the minimum wage to €562 net would also result in additional forgiveness and an increase in the number of unemployed. We believe that it is not possible for social democrats to agree on the idea that in this way only the state has saved and passed the costs on to employers. This is because it is a matter of paying contributions to the pension and disability allowance and that these are the basis for all other rights. At the same time, we point out that by raising the minimum wage, or by improving the situation of those whose earnings are linked to the minimum wage, we are thinking of unemployment benefits, the benefits of those who receive public work benefits. This will not least have a favourable effect on scholarships and an increased number of scholarships. In particular, the State will have to cover, from its own finances and from the budget, the costs for those public servants or public and public administration employees who receive minimum wages. In particular, it seems important to the Social Democrats that the proposed law also strengthens social dialogue. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Article 5 of the proposed law specifically states that coordination is imposed on the Minister, which must be achieved in accordance with the social partners. [[...]] The proposed law is supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u133	Your Honor! The proposal for a minimum wage law, which has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure, seeks to ensure a higher minimum wage by means of this law. This law therefore seeks to ensure that employees who are recipients of minimum wages have a decent life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that raising the minimum wage is necessary, as we have also classified it as a proposed anti-crisis measure, entitled Combating the Crisis, is a fight for new jobs, and therefore we support the bill's proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Unfortunately, however, we are convinced that the approach to raising the minimum wage, as proposed by the Government, is wrong. According to our assessment, the practically total financial burden of this law will be passed on to employers or the economy, which will result in, inter alia, a significant increase in unemployment. In addition to the economic, financial and social crisis to which the Government has responded too slowly and ineffectively, the adoption of this law will most likely also increase the number of unemployed, which we have already estimated to have exceeded 100,000. With such an approach, the government and the coalition are thus increasing this problem by increasing the burden of the economy, rather than looking for solutions in such a situation to the economy and establishing the appropriate basis for opening new jobs with higher added value. We cannot possibly understand that the Government does not understand all the appeals of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics and experts coming from the economy, that the approach is wrong and short-term, as well as long-term, harmful to the development of the economy and, in particular, the management of unemployment and the resolution of an already extremely critical situation in terms of breakthroughs through the economic crisis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the proposed law does not follow the solutions that would, on the one hand, be aimed at maintaining as many jobs as possible, and it follows that, on the other hand, those who are recipients of minimum wages will be assured that the amount of minimum wage will ensure normal survival. That is why we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to ensure that the financial burden of this law is fully transferred to the country and that there is no additional burden on the economy. This is the only way to achieve the goal of retaining jobs and ensuring normal survival for the minimum wage recipients by means of the proposed increase. Once again, I would like to say that we will support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, while at the same time I expect colleagues from the coalition's parliamentary groups to support the amendment and thereby improve this law in terms of what I have already said in the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to Article 3a. I am putting to the debate Article 3a and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Anybody want to talk about him? The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! We have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the sense that, as I said earlier in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We are aware that in this extremely critical economic and social situation, it is not possible to transfer the entire burden contained in this law to the economy. This government has done just that by adopting this law. We are trying to make it very easy for Slovenians and Slovenians to understand how the government works. That is, I take a wheelchair in the shop, go to the shelves, fill it up, drive it nice to the cashier's office, and when I get to the cashier's office, say to the ladies there at the cashier's office, "Dear lady, all that content of this, and the bill will be paid by Mr. Bojan Kontic." And what's gonna happen? This cashier will send an account - and I apologize to my respectable colleague for using his exact last name and name - to him. And you know, it's extremely simple and it's easy to load a full cart, get to the cashier's office and take it away, not pay for it. And this is exactly what the Government has accepted; it is said that it has adopted a law that is still necessary and important, but it puts the whole obligation on the shoulders of employers. That's what's unacceptable. In addition, what's even more unacceptable is that from what a worker gets - it is said that if the employer's cost is now increased by about 150 euros per employee, the worker gets only 100 euros, 50 euros goes back to the treasury country. I don't understand that! How does the state then want to help those who receive the minimum wage if half of that amount gets back into its budget? So, the approach is completely wrong and wrong. That's one aspect. And the others. If we are to move the economy forward and get out of this financial and economic crisis in our country, we must certainly do this to relieve the economy. Certainly not with such laws. At the same time, I must stress, as I have also pointed out in the position of the Group of Members, that people with minimum wages and the level of this minimum wage cannot survive in any way. And thank God the government is thinking in this direction. However, I have made it very clear that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we do not agree with the way it has done so. Raising minimum wage is absolutely necessary. It's absolutely urgent! We certainly agree with that in this House. And the amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party is going in this direction to keep jobs, which the employers keep alerting us to, on the other hand, to ensure that people have a minimum wage to ensure their decent lives. I am sure that if this amendment were to be supported by fellow Members of the coalition, then this law would be one that could contribute to a better, better and certainly go in a direction that would ensure everything I said before: on the one hand, those employees who receive minimum wages would be satisfied, on the other hand, employers would be satisfied and on the third side of the country. And that should be our common and key goal. Our common and crucial goal! I think that this amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is certainly not political, is extremely well-intentioned because we are aware of the situation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia when we are talking about the financial and economic crisis. And on the other hand, we know that we already have 100 or more thousand unemployed. I am convinced that there is no economic operator and also a policy in this country that can think in the direction that we can afford between 5,000 and 25 000 at the expense of this law of the unemployed. The question is whether then we have achieved the goal we want to pursue with this law. It could, of course, be achieved if the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have tabled for this purpose, were respected. Therefore, dear colleagues, I call on everyone in Parliament, Members and Members, in the hope that we are not prisoners of the Government and that we can think with our heads, that we do not make the decisions that the Government is proposing to us, which I do not think are happy in this situation. I'll never say they're not well-intentioned, but they sure as hell aren't happy. With our amendment's proposal, however, this law would improve in this context, in order to be satisfied, as I said in the introduction, by employers, employees, i.e. recipients of minimum wage, and by the state. Therefore, I ask all those present in Parliament to support this amendment of ours to reach the goal when we can see that we have adopted a solution that is, at this moment, optimal in this situation for the future of the country, employees and employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik wants the text, and then the debate follows.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for this law raises a lot of questions about what this means for employment and for jobs. When the bill was drafted, we heard very different assessments, including in the media. The most recent evaluation made by UMAR, which you could monitor, is - although these are estimates, unreliable calculations - that a new amount of minimum wage may result in 5,000 new unemployed at the expense of job losses and up to 20,000 in the next two years. This seems to be a large number at first glance, but we must bear in mind that these are jobs that today cannot be earned for a decent, normal life. If the Slovenian economy is to be restructured in the years to come to a higher added value in order to have better jobs, more than 20,000 jobs will have to be closed in the next two years. And that's what happens during the crisis. After all, we did get a lot more unemployed in the previous year, but let me say that in the same year, when the crisis occurred, 48,500 people were employed by the Employment Office who reestablished their working relationship in one way or another. It is said that these processes of job termination, job losses and employment are ongoing. And this is also a process that can lead us to a serious improvement in the economic structure, to a higher added value. And this law will accelerate this process in this sense, and we must not be sorry for such jobs alone, which do not allow people to survive. It is true, and we agree here, that we also have measures to take at the same time to promote the creation of better jobs, which is already working within the meaning of the measures taken by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science and Technology, and some measures are being further prepared here. Thus, in this sense, this process is actually logical and is only promoted by this law. With regard to the issue of the burden of the economy, I must add the following. Here are some wrong interpretations in the sense that it is a matter of fully burdening the economy with this law. Tomorrow - I think it is on the agenda of the National Assembly - an income law that introduces a substantial relief in the sense that the state will cover the costs incurred by this law of more than 40 million. But we cannot afford it, we have already said this in the preparation of this law, raising the general relief that would cost us more than €400 million right now. The economic situation does not allow this moment. At the same time, I must also add that this is not about the fact that, when the minimum wage is raised, the state will fill itself with cash as was said. This is simply a matter of paying higher contributions to this account to the pension fund for each individual receiving this minimum wage and to the health allowance, for each individual benefiting from public health services. And that's so that after he's retired, he won't have any trouble with a low pension. We have a typical example of this today in the case of independent entrepreneurs. These are 27,500 who have decided to pay contributions on the basis of a minimum wage. This will increase the cost of these contributions at a monthly level by €54. If they're so weak that this cost is too much for them, then I don't think they have a chance to survive. They will have to make some more effort to pay for this contribution. However, I would point out that a large number of those who have consciously decided to pay contributions on the basis of a minimum wage are among them, while, of course, they accumulate their funds in a different way. But they can, after they retire, have problems and demand various supplements because the pension will be too low. And the aim of this measure is to protect individuals from the risk of age in reality. This is also one of the goals. So I don't think that's an appropriate argument for this to be a cashier's charge. It is simply that the State also protects individuals and increases their long-term social security through this measure. I would also say this if the country, as proposed, were to fully cover these costs, which are borne by the higher minimum wage for employers, they would of course not do anything in terms of accelerating structural changes, because it would only otherwise cover those costs which today cover those individuals who receive this minimum wage. For if the minimum wage is below the minimum cost of living, this means that these individuals are entitled to additional social transfers which they receive from another address. If this minimum wage is raised, these transfers will be reduced because normally the individual will also receive a higher basic salary. And of course, if the state otherwise covered this cost, employers would not be encouraged in any way to do so in such jobs to structure. This is the function that we also want to strengthen by this law. For these reasons, which I have just stated, it also seems to us that the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party is unacceptable. There are still some problems of a nomotechnic nature which the Legal and Legal Service has to explain here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you to report to the debate. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment is only in the form of a good one and speaks of burdening the economy to the fullest extent of its contribution. However, the argument is problematic because employers do not pay their contributions, but employees from their gross wages. They're accounted for by employers. And we are adopting a law that commands employers to allow full-time workers, the right to a decent survival and nothing more. Those who can't ensure that they shut down the company. We must not be sad, as Mr Minister has said, for jobs that do not allow payment for a decent life on the brink of poverty. And those employers who would like to fully cover this difference, but do not have a vision not for development or for jobs with higher added value, and would like to continue in one way or another with relatively favourable salaries for the management team, the owner, the worker should continue or be poor or the state should cover the difference. This simply does not work anymore, because the country is not the owner of the means of production if I can express myself in this way, but it is the employer. And I'm asking employers, where are the profits from the past? Why just the yawning? The problem is that everyone is complaining that everyone is suing how terribly difficult it will be to pay these personal incomes to full - time workers. There are none or very few of them, who would say, that is the least we must do to move forward in this country. We have burdened employers with relatively high taxes on paid salaries. It doesn't look like much investment in development, it doesn't see new jobs in this title, much of this savings has gone into yachts, Mercedes and so on, into "foots" employers. Workers stay low wages, the pension box can no longer cover pensions - and we would like to reduce the burden of these low salaries for contributions to even lower. However, by raising the lowest gross salary, we will also increase the basics for the pension, and for that difference, there must be a contribution to this cash register, no other way. As for the obvious that the state is in debt, yes, if we are to reduce contributions, an additional loan will have to be hired to cover all other costs for the preservation of the social state. And then there's the obvious again - and so on. You can't demand a decommissioning of the economy, charge the country the same costs for all we need, and then report that it's "puffed". There's no other way, and that's what we have to live with. That is why I think it is right to support a law that best aims at correcting the unfair sharing of created values in the country, to ensure the basic possibility of full-time survival for full-time workers in the way it is proposed, but which, by the State, has offered a hand to employers to a sufficient extent that we will in fact find it difficult to cover already what it is. Therefore, it is not possible for the State to accept all the burden, nor is it because employers do not share the profits with it when they have them. When there is a crisis, then the country is the one to save; when there are profits, there is no place to talk about losses and how they suffer. That's what I was gonna say. I can't support the amendment, but I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the SDS amendment, as I did not support the proposal for EUR 600 of minimum wage already on the committee. I am pleased, however, that the SDS in this case are in line with the union's requirements, but otherwise the internal nonconsistence of this proposal is because the justification stems from the demands of employers who want to avoid allegedly over-contribution and move on to the shoulders of the countries. What is particularly bothering me in this amendment is that once the €35 mentioned is now in explanation of the EUR 50 mentioned, there is no calculation of what this would actually mean for the budget, what costs would be - nothing, something to think of. In the material provided by the Government, we have the findings of the Institute for Economic Research at the Faculty of Economics, which calculated EUR 562 as the limit necessary for a decent survival. I am not saying that it is easy to live, but at this point it is what the state budget and public finances can do. Other things, what is the relationship between the payments and whose account these payments actually go to. It would be useful, however, to recall the debate on the Committee when we discussed the unpaid or unpaid contributions of employers to the personal accounts of workers. See if you can think of this, since the State has measures by which, under certain conditions, employers can relieve or grant them temporary contributions. The situation will also be facilitated by tax or income relief. By saying that nothing else is going on as a minimum wage and that this is just some reckless measure, I do not have an acceptable claim, but a much more well-founded budget should be found for public finances to be tested in order to support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I have to say that sometimes it is sad that because of things that are somehow urgent, in Slovenia we always argue again, and this is the Minimum Wage Act. We have it on the table, we raise the minimum wage by around 100 euros, which is a necessary measure in our country. We know that, given the costs, the cost of living that people have, such a measure is not only necessary today, but also in the future, when we look at how to improve this situation further. There's one thing. The only argument that is being used today is how we raise the minimum wage and speak, but the opposition somehow makes it clear to the Government that it is burdening the economy and that it will make it even more unemployed. I think that this is a premature claim that this may be one number given by the opposition, slightly in the air, and that none of us know exactly what this measure will bring, except that it will raise the minimum wage to raise the minimum wage that is needed. Your proposal, the proposal of the opposition you are proposing, therefore the amendment you are proposing, does not completely burden the economy, because, according to your proposal, even if you give a zero rate of contribution to employers, employers will have to pay 100 euros more than they have paid so far. Look at your calculations. By not saying that your proposal does not burden the economy. That's wrong. On the other hand, it must be recognised that the budget, as it is, does not hold up more than that amount of expenditure. However, we need a minimum wage, and if anyone can take care of the workers, they are employers and comparisons with the basket and the shop, and who is pushing the cart to pay for something is wrong now, because employers are responsible, of course, for the country to help, regulate, enable, facilitate measures and so on, but especially employers. And if the employers are at some point, and I'm not going to tell you what happened in the past and what complications we had in the managers' buyouts and where the money was channeling, which could go into financing bigger wages or development, let's leave it at the side now. Today we have a minimum wage bill on the table, we raise minimum wage. This is a positive measure and let us try to pursue it. As you may not agree with this way today, we did not agree with the way that in 2006 the minimum wage was lagging behind private sector wage growth for good two percentage points, in 2007 for poor four and a half percentage points. In 2007, the minimum wage even fell by more than a percentage. If we are talking about ways, then we need to ask ourselves why we were reducing minimum wages at the time of economic growth in view of wage growth. We're raising it today. We view this as a good, positive measure, which will also be regulated in the future. The Minister has already said how it will help the economy, how it will be possible, I don't know, even the labour market. We have an income law on the table tomorrow, which will come across the economy as well. This was also a government prediction in the past, a ministry that is working hard. Today is a sign of what we have on the table that the Government is trying to reach, to the extent possible today, as opposed to workers who urgently need this law, as well as employers in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We discussed this law for five hours on the committee and finally prepared it for discussion in Parliament. We have also discussed this amendment a lot and, of course, as is the case today, we have united in the majority that we will not support it. A very good starting point for an in-depth debate, if any, was given by the Minister. The minimum wage and burden of employers according to the minimum wage is not a story worth fighting about and arguing about, whether yes or no, the story is that these jobs need to be slowly and permanently closed and the level of education raised, including the salaries of employees. If you look between the minimum wage and the fifth payment group, there is virtually no big difference. It is either through secondary education or without education or by lower education they get very little pay gap. If you look at some companies, let's say I take the example of Intereuropo Koper, which is almost based on this secondary education, and I can practically say that most of these people live today from a minimum wage, and these people are in great danger because former managers or, not managers, I don't want to regret that we have some very, very good managers in Slovenia, the incapacitated have managed to get the company on its knees today to look around and think about how it will pay every month. It's also in some other companies that these incompetents have destroyed. If you want only one company that was in Isola, one company that was in Portorož, drugs and so on, the parade horses of our economy are destroyed, and some have to drive 100 kilometers to their jobs if they want to keep a job with a minimum wage. Many more things need to be settled before we fight and argue about this minimum wage. But it is my belief that it is high time for us to stop the debate and give it to people and not talk about them anymore. Who doesn't deserve minimum wages anywhere in the world, not just in our country? This minimum wage is what the state can provide, and of course this country is doing today, and I hope that we will adopt this law tomorrow and that we will put this matter on the agenda. And if I add that, in the process of its work, the Ministry has submitted the most measures to the Committee and later to the National Assembly, most of the laws that went into the employers' hands not to list them, from reduced working time to care for workers who went to the Employment Institute and so on and so on. So we cannot deal with one matter unilaterally and find that it is now the end of the world, because for a few euros we will burden the economy or employers. And I agree with those of you who said the economy needs to start and start on a healthy basis. Waiting for the state to help him and make sure that he who has the lowest education, who is working the least difficult, is going to be able to help him in order to save himself, and then I think that this company is really not worth working for. I think it should be said that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is working very hard, I think, also very successfully, and it has taken very, very big steps in these social transfers, if we can call it, employers. Of course, I will not support the amendment, for the reasons I have listed and listed by my colleagues. In particular, I can refer here to the debate of colleague Majde Potrat, who made it clear why we will not support this amendment. I don't want to spread and discuss, and I want to do any commercials myself, and I want to use my TV time to do what I think about this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment myself, not because I would consider the purpose of the amendment to be bad, but because the purpose is clear - we would like to burden businesses and entrepreneurs with the burden of the state treasury. It's actually a known game of Chinese boxes: if we pick up somewhere else, of course, we add somewhere else. Whether this happens in one way or another is actually a similar effect. We have heard that tomorrow we will be discussing the Income Act, where the country is already offering a compromise solution and is coming to business and allowing the burden of raising the minimum wage to the level of living costs to be actually balanced so that it will be the burden of both countries and capital. However, if we were to address this issue only in the way proposed by the opposition, the principles of the system of payment of contributions would be. It would even involve discriminatory treatment of wages and this system, and in particular would give comfort to those businesses and entrepreneurs who do not know or do not want to understand that the first task is to enable socially responsible businesses and entrepreneurs, who are also buyers, to buy on this market. And our market is mostly covered by national buyers. In some cases, they have also tackled the crisis with incentives for purchases - completely banal subsidies that increase purchasing power. The system of raising/increasing minimum wages allows, including those who could not be buyers, because they have barely survived or could not survive, because they have not even reached those levels of monthly cost of living in order to become more interesting from this point of view. In short, social, socially responsible entrepreneurship will understand this and understand that the Government will help them with other reliefs, not in this way. This would be the most wrong way. And if we are already in the package, I personally look forward to the Government's decision to resolve the issue of minimum wage separately from the rest of the package. There's probably a pretty symbolic value in this, but what the union demanded was legitimate. Do not mix the minimum wage, which is almost, before the economic category of the humanitarian category. In fact, it is a matter of ensuring, at a symbolic, legal level, some fundamental right to survival. Everything else needs to be broken down and regulated as part of the economic approaches to be aimed at getting out of the crisis and stimulating our economy. That is why tomorrow we will consider the Income Act, the general relief envisaged is essentially support and compromise in decommissioning entrepreneurship and, on the other hand, we will face, sooner or later, the issue of the employer's attitude towards the worker and the availability of profits. And this is one of the key issues when we talk about the law on profit participation, we will also talk about the stimulating steps to encourage this participation. For before it was said, which entrepreneurs are supposed to earn better treatment - I believe that those who have social responsibility for work and workers. First, you need to stimulate these. Those who do not just send to the street will make sure that the differences within the company are reduced at such a critical stage. And if this means that they will themselves renounce a certain share of the profits to regulate the minimum standard of living and the work of their own workers, and I believe they will not flee to other countries immediately because of this measure. It is also a bluff, it is part of the negotiations, it is part of the dialogue with trade unions, but we know that after they are placed before the fact and if the quality of Slovenian workers is good, capital will not just leave the country and run into more risky labour markets. This is why it goes in the direction of stimulation, and this proposal of yours, fellow SDS, would be justified if it were linked, say, to incentives for profit availability, i.e. participation in profit. If we were to link one such relief to that company which recognises participation in profit, it would make more sense to think in this direction. I won't support the amendment. I understand the purpose is legitimate, but it's not useful. At this point, I see no benefit if we accepted it, we would only burden even more state-owned cash registers, but we would not make a significant contribution to the fact that these companies, if they are really at this stage, I think the Minister has made it clear that if they do not have the opportunity and will not survive such a change, then these companies are indeed in a critical state and neither would this measure help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u149	The Honorable President. Very briefly. It was all said, I think a lot of things that just don't fit in with what we're discussing here today. It has been said that we are fighting here in Parliament. We are absolutely not fighting here, but we are very clear on how we see in the Slovenian Democratic Party solutions that would be written on the skin of citizens and citizens, the state and employers, which still need to be taken into account in this extremely critical situation. It was said that the state has nothing to do with how the economy works. That's absurd. The State is obliged to provide conditions for the economy to function in a qualitative manner. As you know, we have practically the most taxed work in the European Union. And if this is not an argument that should be taken into account, which the Government should take into account in its solutions, if it wants to create an appropriate basis for the development of the economy and for a better economy in Slovenia, then I do not know what the state is doing here. Which of the Members and Members of Parliament can speak in this way and do not know these basic things, which are still important for the functioning of the State? Tell me, what will those workers who will lose their jobs at the expense of this situation that will happen? There have been so many debates that it doesn't matter at all, 10, 15, 20, 25 thousand, these are jobs that are not worthy of survival, and we don't care at all that 15,000 workers or 20,000 jobs fall tomorrow. Have any of you ever been with those people, asked these people, but what do those people think when they lose their job or lose their job? Come on, answer that before you think like that. Above all, it is unacceptable that the representative of DeSUS, Mr Žnidaršič, uses such an approach and so speaks, while on the other hand the practical pensions are blocked, etc. And the big question is whether the contribution to pension insurance is the one who will determine what pensions will be in the future. I'm sure he won't. And that's why they're not the arguments you're going to try to convince me with. However, the arguments are certainly in the way set out in the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment that the state must create the conditions here that the economy can function and that it does not sink the economy through legislation that is not properly prepared is not prepared so that this country can function in a qualitative manner. And that in the end, those who actually wrote this law would be pleased. And this amendment has been put in place for this very purpose, precisely in order to achieve optimumness, and to pursue those goals that should be key to this critical situation for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Cedež, there will be no way to discuss this because the Group of Members has wasted time. We appreciate your willingness to discuss this, but there will be nothing. Come on, so Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The raising of the minimum wage at this cost of living must be supported. And, of course, I will support this proposal. I will not support the amendment. It is noted that the minimum wage currently covers a small part of the employees in Slovenia and this is expected not to be a terrible increase in labour costs in Slovenia. But there's a lot of danger. The first is that a chain response can happen, which means that all other classes close to minimum wage will also reach out after wanting to increase wages, which is common. In this case, the Slovenian economy would be threatened and, of course, the competitiveness of our economy would fall. The objective in Slovenia is to restructure the economy. What was adopted with the Pomura Act. In Pomura, we only want this at this point; all those companies, individuals, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who, of course, have a minimum wage, they must now get the most gray hair to try to find different solutions to the restructuring of the economy; bring in new programs and, of course, modernise production to achieve slightly different production than it is at this point. In 2005, the government was in Pomure. It was estimated that Mura 2005 was ready for bankruptcy. If we were to take this problem seriously, of course, we would not have 3,000 unemployed today, but probably just about 1,000. That's it. This is that, of course, the opportunity lost, no one returns. At that time, it is necessary to react when necessary, when the time is right. That's why we're doing this. In particular, the strategy in Slovenia must be one that means higher added value and improved production and technological development. However, it is not expected that competition in Slovenia will be easy for those who have lower added value. I estimate that work with low added value will sooner or later have to be left to someone else. The responses of economists are interesting. Some say it's a big problem to pay the wages. Others say there will be a need to find some more reserves that still exist in a large number of companies. Others say that this proposal will not have a significant impact on the payment of these minimum wages. It is clear, however, that everything depends on what the structure of the economy is, whether there are many of those with a minimum wage within one company. But the overall assessment is that it is certainly necessary to try and try to go [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by the minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. If you allow me, I would respond only to three issues, statements made in this debate. Firstly, it may be necessary to point out in this debate that many companies, as well as the industry, have already agreed on a higher salary than the statutory one. Which means that those parts of the economy that are solid, which have invested in development, don't actually have these problems and they can't have them at all. But of course, it's the pressure on the weaker part. But this, of course, is the goal, the goal of restructuring also this part of the economy, which has always been lagging behind and has not cared enough about development steps. Another time. I think that in this debate a person would like a slightly different view of the country, although here we defend ourselves in some way in the sense that the country is primarily a redistributive mechanism. The country doesn't actually get anything. The State will continue to allocate what it receives and if we are to exempt the payment of contributions of a particular category, the second category of employees will have to contribute so much more to be able to maintain social programmes, whether they are pensions or any other programme. I think the role of the country here is purely instrumental, not any other. That's why I don't think this discourse is really appropriate in itself. And thirdly, we regret anyone who loses a job, so we have the instruments to help him with a cash refund, with the programmes of the current employment policy. As it is said, we cannot regret every job because the quality of these jobs, quality in terms of quality of work, employment, earnings and, of course, also in terms of economic view, added value that it creates, can accumulate such a business further. And in this sense it is necessary to distinguish this, not every job lost is the same as any unemployed person. We need to take care of the unemployed, and if this movement is to change the economic structure, the shift from quality to quality jobs will have to be even more intense than it has been so far, otherwise the problem of lagging behind in development will continue to be pronounced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I ask you again for a debate. The word is Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Surely today we should commend the Government for the proposal of this law. With this commendation, it is certainly necessary to say that it is the courage of this government and the clear attitude of this government to work. For this government by this law proves that, of course, work should be of value and that when work is done, work should also have a proper, dignified minimum payment. The government and also today, Mr Minister, in this debate, reiterates, the Government is aware of what this measure will bring. Not only will people, with lower incomes today on a lower minimum wage, have more to ensure that each individual lives as decent as possible. But it is also clearly aware of which development path Slovenia should enter. And this development path speaks of the need to think in this country where jobs are so poorly paid that they do not allow a decent life for individuals who work full and regular. And this consensus should actually be. With the support of this law, it is also achieved in this house. And it is no better to argue this argument than today, Mr Minister. I cannot repeat so well, but I can only substantiate the fact that in these times the awareness that this measure will, of course, require action in a number of other areas, is necessary and swift. As a result, this law is a reason in the poor structure of this Slovenian economy. This has been pointed out a number of years earlier, but the interest in Slovenia was not a focus on improving technologies, improving processes, improving knowledge, but there were other interests, so today we are also dealing indirectly with the poor business of banks. At that time, no one in relation to these issues, which are linked to the minimum wage, has asked about these consequences, and today we are also faced with the fact that the banking system is not able to "sport", a favourable "sporting" of these restructuring processes. This is where the government with these schemes is also trying to find a starting point for this economy. So this measure raises minimum wages is multi-layered. The basic and fundamental objective, which I firmly believe is to ensure a proper decent payment for work in the first place, but as a result, here with the Minister, I fully agree that this will bring about a number of other measures for the structural transformation of the Slovenian economy. And this structural transformation will require a mental transformation. Consolidation of ownership cannot be a fundamental decision-making point for managers, but it must be investing in the company, investing in development, investing in long-term stability and adaptability to what is happening in global situations. If we add to this only this element of long-term social security, because it is not in our interests that low wages come to people's retirement, they will have very low pensions and then we will exhaust this country in relation to ensuring decent life with social transfers. Relation to the budget. I wouldn't repeat the facts that have already been said here. In more than ten million euros, the budget will be affected by the adoption package tomorrow, the Income Act. It also seems very bad to me that today we are talking about raising the minimum wage, talking about how many 10,000 jobs will be lost here, because, of course, we are creating a very uncomfortable mood in relation to this content, which is good. Mr Minister has made it clear here that there are studies that talk about this and the Government's awareness that this can happen. Of course, the government follows very clearly with instruments of how it will be necessary to help economic work and those who could lose their jobs, this number is about 5,000, which is not announced absolutely, but, as possible, here today to talk about 15 thousand, 20 thousand and more people, I think [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u156	Please, peace in the hall! Mr Pojibič, you have no opportunity to debate, please do not reach out to the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u157	I believe there may be such a number in an interview. I am listening to the debate here today, and I am trying to comment on the facts that have been mentioned here, and we are having a hard time speaking to ourselves. I feel very uncomfortable when one of the Members debated whether we have ever been together with people who are so difficult to live. Do I remind you of the strange process of selling TDR metallurgy in Ruša, the loss of more than 100 jobs in the previous term. Do you think it would be possible to figure out how these procedures took place there? And how do we save these people now? By giving them new jobs. And if we had done something very different in any government before, let's say one economic operator who had 2,500 employees in good times and this was extremely important in our area, today we can look at some 10 jobs without any perspective as to what will happen to this complex. You do not underestimate other Members and Members that we do not know what is happening in the environment and that we do not understand these people. We understand them and therefore support these measures, which are justified by some studies, which have also brought the amount of the minimum wage with some calculation and I would also like to have all wages higher than the minimum wage. And here I am encouraged by the fact that the minister says that a number of economic operators who can pay wages are higher than the minimum wage. And I would like all wages in the Republic of Slovenia to be higher than the minimum wage. But the threshold that this government places below the minimum seems to me to be humane, ethical in relation to these people who work and the attitude to work, which says by this law that it makes sense to work and that if you work and do the right thing, you have a decent life to pay for. This also involves motivation, motivation in the workplace and creativity and motivation for these people to have the will for education, completion and that their creative work will be able to transfer to the added value to the higher added value of everything that is being done. I already told the board that it would be very inappropriate to say that we are bidding on the amount of minimum wage, who is better. However, it is difficult to say that 10 euros would be more bad. No, on the contrary, it would be good. But here's a calculation that talks about the minimum cost of living costs as a basis for which I think it's being properly chosen at this point. On the basis of all this, I will not support the SDS amendment. I don't even understand that he'd be invested with some negative tendencies. I understand him, and it is right that we have discussed him on the committee and here today. But because of everything I have said in the position of the Group of Members and now in my further explanation, I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I have a word for Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have already said the main position of the Slovenian National Party on this topic. On this occasion, however, I would like to state my personal opinion on this amendment. Of course, the purpose of the amendment is good. I know which way he's headed. The only thing I find odd is quite substantively dictatorial, and I don't know if it's going to be legally formally incorporated into this law. For the subject itself, or that the Government, in setting deadlines, should prepare a relatively short time limit or submit appropriate laws to the National Assembly, reducing taxes and contributions to minimum wage levels paid from minimum wage and so on. It's a difficult change. I don't think even in real terms it's possible to just do that. By agreeing and welcoming the concern for employers, many will be in a difficult situation with the implementation of this law. That it was necessary to know the consequences of this law, I was already hearing it in the debate, even though I was a little surprised. Someone here on the right said we're adopting a law, and we don't know anything about its consequences. This is kind of a Russian roulette: It will work, but it won't work. This is not how laws are generally adopted. But if they do, we need to be aware that something might go wrong and that we need to anticipate it. This is also the opinion of the Association of Employers of Slovenia. For the situation as it is that higher wages will trigger a wave of consequences, the Secretary-General of the Association of Employers of Slovenia answers with a question of where the money comes from. First, let the economy share, says the state and the state. Employers, however, miss calculations as to the consequences of the increase in minimum wage. So we don't talk about these calculations at all or even exist. The minimum wage is very low, recognised by everyone, including employers, and needs to be increased, but this triggers a wave of consequences. Clearly, this is the fact that there will be consequences. The Secretary also believes that it would be right to make decisions only after they face the consequences as well. So, when the consequences arise, we will decide how we will act, so to speak, we will amend the law that we have just adopted. So it's all a little weird. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think this is going to be the way it's supposed to be. Not to mention the breakdown of proportions, when one of the speakers spoke, it is true that the V level also employs workers, ordinary workers, public officials paid almost as much as the minimum wage will now be. There will also be a certain pressure on the legislator that something needs to be done again. This is just one of the consequences that we already know will happen, and what will happen to the others we know. There will certainly be a need to work on the tax and contribution reduction law, because there are so many anomalies in our country, in this legislation, that foreigners are surprised. For example, just one example - a taxi driver in the Murski Sobota has three taxis. They get sick of two taxi drivers, they stay alone, they can only drive one taxi, two stand, they have to be paid two wages at the end of the month. He went bankrupt. When I was talking to a fellow American, or another activity, he said how he got paid for what he was doing. When he didn't work, he doesn't get paid, because that makes some sense. It is said that the State should take over such a case in order to ensure payment. If we're already, or if we're, or if we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, And there are also cases like this. Here are the most affected little craftsmen. There's always someone in a big company who can work instead of someone, according to your household, to patch up that employee's deficit. But with small craftsmen, it's actually so they can bring him to bankruptcy. And again, at the end of the day, the state has it on the line. And a lot of these things should be considered in the future, if we really want to take care of employers. So that we don't just drool and understand them, but do nothing for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister! It is certainly the aim of the proposed law to ensure conditions of decent living for workers who barely survive from month to month with current earnings. While raising the minimum wage to EUR 562 is something that improves the current situation, it is only not a solution that we can accept as final. The debaters on the committee have identified the bill as a poorly drafted law because it does not take into account the social partners and it is not a solution to encourage economic operators and entrepreneurs. Speaking of raising the minimum wage, it is also recalled that there will be another 20,000 people on the stock exchange, which no one wants. It is not enough to record that higher minimum wages must be paid if companies do not have the money to survive and pay this money. I've never met a worker who agrees to lose his job at the expense of a minimum wage. First of all, conditions for normal functioning must be provided in the company. As we can see, no action has been taken. The situation in the economy is getting worse and those companies that have jobs, where workers have paid over thousands of euros so far, will also kneel and be destroyed by payment indiscipline, VAT and credit crunches. It is too small for you to have a job if this job is not paid and you become illiquid because the state has not made sure that payments are also implemented, which is the responsibility of the State, to ensure the legitimate implementation of payments. Otherwise, this law will bring about a chain salary increase in companies, which will further burden liquidity. This law provides for a number of workers and a country, and businesses have not been taken care of. And I see no way out of these additional financial burdens. I'm counting on the proposer to know that. I will support the bill and the amendment for the good of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE EXPOSURE REDUCTION OF FUNCTIONERS' PAYMENTS, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a number of measures to mitigate the financial crisis and the projected economic recession in the previous year. One of them was the reduction in the salaries of officials for a period of 12 months. This 12-month period shall expire on 31. 3. 2010 In view of the consequences of the economic recession and given the current economic assessment of the state of the government, the amendment proposes that this temporary measure be extended to reduce the salaries of officials up to and including 31. 12. 2010 In 2009 and 2010 it will have 1,686 legislators, executive, judicial and civil servants at state and local level with 4% of the salary cut. Savings in the current year 2010 will amount to around €2 million for the previous 9 months. The remaining measures, together with the proposed in 2010, will prevent the implementation of the "spontive scenario" in the field of public sector wage policy. We call the spontaneous scenario a state in which salaries would be paid to about 160 000 civil servants under agreed rights, in particular the agreed salary reform in 2008. This spontaneous scenario would result in a 10.3% increase in the salaries of public servants in 2010. After negotiations with the unions, we changed the spontaneous scenario and so the wage growth in the public sector, despite the wage reform, will be only 3%, and the growth in the spontaneous scenario has been reduced by around 355 million euros. The country spends four billion euros on gross salaries for all public servants. Under a spontaneous scenario for 2010 without any measures, this increase would amount to an additional EUR 400 million. Thus, a reduction of 355 million under agreement with the public-sector trade unions means stabilisation in wage policy. That we are officials who, by reducing our salaries, of course, have a significant impact on the success of the public sector trade union agreements for civil servants' salaries, there is no need to stress this place in particular. Because in 2010, public servants resigned in 2010 due to a successful agreement in 2010, 2011 with the desire to implement the abolition of wage imbalances, they paid 2% of the funds legally determined to pay for their regular work performance. The elimination of wage imbalances, which was definitively agreed in 2008, which would mean an increase of 200 million funds, has changed dynamically following successful negotiations so that this removal will only take effect in the third quarter. Ten. 2010 and last removal 1. Ten. 2011. The alignment of wages with the growth of living costs or with inflation is agreed, in agreement with the trade unions for public servants, at only half of the alignment with the growth of living costs. In short, all these measures, including the stable payment of the regression, constitute an exceptional waiver of public servants to agreed rights. Therefore, in view of the proposed assessment of the situation as reflected in the explanation of the law, the Government considers that the temporary reduction in salaries of officials in view of the successful arrangements for the effective reduction of the salaries of public servants constitutes an important message and a measure of further saving in the area of wage policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Anton Kolaric, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues. At its meeting on 9 February this year, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending the Law on the temporary reduction of salaries of officials. Members and members of the committee had a proposal for a law as a material, an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, as well as an opinion of the Council of Justice. At the meeting, Ms Tina Tržan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, explained in a supplementary explanation of the bill's proposal, that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Wages of Officials extended the temporary reduction of wages of 4% from their basic salary to 31 December 2010, with the aim of saving public funds for the salaries of officials. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service also took part in the meeting, and we also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice, which concludes that the Council of Justice does not support the proposal for a law on the ground that it does not comply with the criteria set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. The members of the committee on individual articles of the bill were not discussed. However, we have adopted an amendment to Article 2 following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which includes the adoption of an amendment. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u167	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague. Let me start by saying that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will once again support a measure which foresees a temporary reduction in salaries for officials. We will support it because of the principle of solidarity, because it is also right that officials contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a reduction of the functional salaries in order to ensure the stability of public finances in 2010, and this extension of the measure is considered an urgent austerity measure. This will reduce public spending by a total of €2 million and €90 000. This path of saving may not be the most effective, but the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support it. The right path would, in our view, be, inter alia, an immediate and comprehensive reform of the Law on Public Servants and other laws governing the work of public servants and officials and the abolition of certain unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and costs. It would also be good to remove the proportionality of the public sector wage system and only then take austerity measures in public sector wages. Above all, it would be right to regulate once and for all the wage relations between Members, Ministers, Prime Minister, directors of those companies where the State is the owner or co-owner. The aim of the State should be to establish, in the long term, a payment system in which capable and efficient workers and officials would remain or would like to be employed in public administration. Of course, it is right that the wage system in public administration is saved, but it must still be sufficiently stimulating in order to stop the escape of the best staff from state and public administration. Only through the acquisition of good staff would national and public administrations increase their efficiency. We will therefore support the proposed extension of the measures in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because we want to be in solidarity with those who are employed in the economy, with workers and workers in the industry, with those who are actually most affected by the crisis. However, we must admit that this measure will not do much to help them, since we will not save anything essential with them. We'd probably save more money if we didn't rent expensive glass spaces and stuff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello to the Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! In last year, they adopted a reduction in the salaries of officials, which was foreseen for the regulation of the law until this spring. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support the proposed extension of the salary reduction by 4%. The reason for the proposed extension of this measure is due to the economic situation and economic assessment of the situation in Slovenia more than justified. The contribution of the savings of public funds earmarked for salaries of 1,686 officials will thus amount to around EUR 2 million for a period of nine months, i.e. 2,866 gross monthly minimum wages proposed for a new one. Of course, there is not much to hear from the information that the recipients of the minimum wages according to official data are around 17,000, but this is only one of the State's austerity measures in 2010 and measures to remedy or alleviate the financial crisis. However, if we add to the estimated reduction in salaries of officials in the current annual period, the decreases, which amounted to €2.8 million in savings, the share we contribute to the end of the financial crisis is not so insignificant. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the amendment of the law, as there is no doubt that the proposed measure is meaningful and necessary in its contribution to the stability of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The position of the Member State of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u171	Dear Mr. President. Dear Minister. In order to mitigate the financial crisis and the projected economic recession in the previous year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a measure to reduce salaries for officials for a period of 12 months, which runs out 31. 3. 2010 The main solution to the bill, which is currently under consideration in the National Assembly, is the continuation of a temporary reduction in salaries for officials of up to 4% of their basic salary up to and including 31. 12. 2010 We will not support the proposed novel in the Slovenian National Party Group because it is 1,686 officials who have been contributing to the resolution of the financial crisis for one year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia simply cannot extend the measure, which has been precisely set for a period of 12 months. In view of the Government's argument that it is transmitting the amendment under consideration for admission to the National Assembly due to the consequences of the economic recession, and given the current economic assessment of the situation in Slovenia, we can expect such an extension in the future if the crisis is not over. The principle of solidarity, on which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly referred, is simply not unlimited. The proposed extension of the time limit is also not supported by the Council of Justice, as the amendment does not take into account the criteria set out in the Constitutional Court decision of 9. 11. 2009 We have also received a letter from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group from the municipalities of Slovenia, which also strongly opposes the measure and also points to the systemic anomaly caused by this reduction in the salaries of officials. As they state in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, where they undoubtedly have all the key data, there are such anomalies in practice that, in particular, in smaller municipalities, the mayor or mayor receives a lower salary than that of the director or director of the municipal administration with all the eligible allowances. Thus, the proposed 4% reduction in salaries makes it easy for officials to break the ratio between salaries of officials and other public servants. As has already been said, we will not support the proposed novelty in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. In doing so, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to find the exit measures from the economic crisis elsewhere and not always and only in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Welcome to the Minister! If it's a recession, then it's a recession for everyone, including officials. I can say this in the introduction on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and this proposal to limit wages by 4% will of course be unitedly supported. The proposed amendment aims to save public funds for the salaries of officials. The bill follows the principle of solidarity, which means that officials will also contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis. The main solution proposed by this law is the continuation of the temporary reduction in salaries of officials, namely the expiry date of the measure by the end of December of this year. This amendment extends the duration of the reduction of the salaries of all A payroll officials provided for in Annex 3 of the Law on the System of Salaries of Public Servants. The proposed law reduces the salaries of officials by deducting the amount of 4% of their basic salary from their salary each month. The government is proposing a reduction in official salaries to ensure the stability of public finances in 2010. The proposed amendment is certainly in a reasonable proportion to the constitutionally permissible objective, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia stated in the Constitutional Opinion of the Law on the Elimination of the Right to Regression for Annual Holidays that austerity measures as part of the economic policy of the State are certainly admissible. The scope of the public expenditure will be reduced by a good EUR 2 million between April 2010 and December 2010, which may not sound too much, but any contribution to the resolution of the difficult public financial situation is certainly important, necessary and welcome. The State's austerity measures in 2010 are essential mainly from a public financial perspective and also from the perspective of ensuring greater coherence between the projected macroeconomic trends, as in particular the ratio of public sector wage growth and labour productivity growth and the reduction of very large differences in the expected wage growth in the private and public sectors in this and also in the coming year. It seems important to us, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, that also representative public sector unions support and understand the message of the extension of this measure, which is necessary and important at this time. We will therefore fully support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u175	Have a nice hello again. The Act on temporary reduction of salaries of officials, as we know, was essentially adopted last year, March 2009. At that time, it was stipulated that the salaries of all A employees were reduced by 4% of their basic salary. This time we are only extending this situation until 31 December of this year and thus contributing our part to the resolution of the financial crisis. The Social Democrats will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the economic crisis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a number of measures, including the reduction of salaries for officials for a period of 12 months from the implementation of the Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Wages of Officials. This period shall expire on 31 March 2010. In view of the current economic assessment of the situation in the Republic of Slovenia and the consequences of the economic recession, the Government proposes that the measure be extended to a maximum of 31. 12. 2010 The proposed law reduces the salaries of officials by deducting 4% of their basic salary from their salary. The proposal for a law amending the law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials follows agreements concluded between the Government and representative public sector unions. The adoption of the amendment will save public funds for the salaries of officials. On 9 February, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted its amendment to Article 2, which took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and thus address the possible consequences of the creation of a legal void for the period from the entry into force of the draft law until its entry into force. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A redraft of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which also makes the position of officials worse at the point of elimination of wage imbalances. Believe me, it was not possible for public servants who negotiated three times in 2009 to properly negotiate the deterioration of the rights of public servants to take account of the same deterioration for officials. This falls within the culture of social dialogue, i.e. equal treatment for all. And this novel provides that the last third of the wage imbalances set for officials will be eliminated within the same extended deadline agreed with the public sector trade unions for civil servants on 1 October 2011. This movement of course we have been working since 2009 forward in 2010 and now in 2011. I think it is for the same reason that the last removal for all of us paid from the state budget is equally unfavourable, if you want, for all. The second amendment to the novel is the result of an agreement with the unions, which is that the salary scale, due to the union's agreement to raise basic salaries, is the value of the basic wage class from 1 January 2010 onwards, by 0.2%. This 0.2% represents up to half the difference between the projected and actual increase in the prices of living needs in 2009. This latter change is due to an agreement with the public sector trade unions and means, however, a minimum, by 0.2% of the maintenance of the real value of the civil servant's salary. Secondly, as has already been said, we will eliminate wage imbalances in the same extreme date as public servants. Despite the opposition to the previous novelty of the judiciary, however, it must be said at this point that, as a crisis measure, the representatives of the judicial officials with whom we coordinated were also agreed to pay as a means of reducing wages in 2009. The agreement with which we, as the Government, concluded the coordination of the constitutionally coherent salary system of judges was signed from the knowledge of the text of the law on the reduction of salaries by 4% also for judicial officials. The judiciary officials also agreed, due to the financial crisis, that the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation in the area of the salaries policy of judicial officials should be suspended, so that it can be implemented in the final form of 1.12.2010. The group of these measures, which are effective in 2010, together with the reduction in the salaries of officials with the non-removal of wage imbalances between officials and delays also for civil servants, represents the consolidation of the public financial situation in 2010 in the field of wage policy, but this consolidation will not end, as Mr Majhenič rightly stated, but is reflected in the agenda item, which I think will be taken very seriously tomorrow, this is about measures to consolidate the public financial situation in 2012 and 2013 and also in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Anton Kolaric, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. Ms Tina Tržan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, said in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the objective of the proposed law of implementation had been set by Annex No 2 to the Public Sector Collective Agreement concluded by the representative public sector unions and that the deadline for the elimination of wage imbalances, as laid down for civil servants, was the same. At the meeting, the Law-Legal Service had a few comments on the amendment of the law, but the committee adopted the proposed amendments to the coalition. As the Minister has already said, the Committee also took note of the opinion of the Council of Justice on the amendment of the law, and in this case they supported the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone in the hall has a very nice greeting. Two key points mark the consideration of the amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. Firstly, the law will implement an agreement on the harmonisation of basic public sector wages by 0.2%, as follows from the annex No 2h to the public sector collective agreement. Secondly, the Act on a system of wages, which is systemic in relation to the whole public sector, regulates the content of the measures already taken with regard to delays in the elimination of wage imbalances in officials. These measures have already been incorporated into the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2008 and 2009 or into the Law on Intervention Measures in the light of the economic crisis, so that the law in question only regulates uniformly the already adopted dynamics of the definitive elimination of wage imbalances of public servants. Since the proposal does not in fact specify any new content, but essentially coordinates the agreement already adopted by the government and the public sector unions and the content of the measures provided for in the two other laws, we will support it in the DeSUS Group in its complementary form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u185	Your Honor! The reason for the proposed amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme is the harmonisation of the basic wage for half the difference between the forecast inflation and the actual rate of rising prices of living needs and the additional saving of the country, which is why it is proposed to remove the last third of wage imbalances from 1 December 2010 to 1 October 2011. To harmonise wages, only half the difference between the projected and actual increase in prices of living needs shall be taken into account. The projected inflation growth from the spring forecast adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 2 April 2009 and published on the UAR website was 1.4%. The increase in prices of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 compared to December 2008, published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, is 1.8%. This resulted in a difference of 0.4%. Therefore, based on the annex, the basic wages for half the difference should be harmonised, i.e. by 0.2%. We do not support wage reduction measures in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that decent income is necessary to encourage the population to the consumer. That is why we support the proposed novelism, which at least harmonises wages according to the rising prices of living needs. This ensures at least that the purchasing power of public sector employees does not decrease. As a result of the financial crisis and economic recession, last year the Government decided to act also and especially in the field of public sector wages for both officials and public servants. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already taken a number of measures with a view to saving. Let me only mention some: reduction of the salaries of officials by 4%, retention of the planned alignment of the basic salaries of directors in the public sector, non-implementation of the overall harmonisation of wages, suspension of the payment of regular work performance, restrictions on payments of increased work volume and so on. We therefore assess in the Slovenian National Party Group that the Government should cut down on other austerity measures, such as the income of people employed in the public sector. However, we support the proposed amendment, since despite the extension of the last third of wage imbalances, it increases the basic salary by at least 0.2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u187	It's a nice hello to all of us once again. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wage System Act will be supported by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative public sector unions are 28. On 10th of 2009 they signed Annex No. 2 to the Public Sector Collective Treaty, which provides for the harmonisation of wages in January 2010, in the event that the actual increase in prices of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia exceeds the projected increase in prices of living needs in the spring forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The objective of the proposed novelty was to set this annex to the public sector collective agreement concluded with representative public sector unions and to set the same deadline for the elimination of wage imbalances as laid down for public servants and also for officials. In 2010, an additional EUR 7.95 million in the public sector will need to be provided in order to harmonise basic salaries on the basis of an annex to the public sector collective agreement. The projected reduction in the expenditure of the State budget due to the delay in the elimination of disproportionates in basic salaries for officials has been fully demonstrated in the context of the adoption of the law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis and the law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. For all of this we will support the proposal of this law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u189	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Public Sector Wage System Act. We also support a rapid procedure for the adoption of law. The proposed law is an integral part of the first package of measures to come out of the crisis. The law has agreed to implement an annex to the public sector collective agreement, with which the social partners, the Government and the public sector unions, have agreed to slower harmonise wage growth in order to contribute to reduced public spending, a more balanced budget and a smaller deficit in public spending over the coming years. This is an important contribution of workers in the public sector and a sign of their awareness of their responsibilities to address the economic and financial crisis. Coordination of wage growth in the public sector is a sign of such a decision and is worth more than €300 million only for half of price growth and the shift in partial coordination from 2010 to 2011. However, since inflation increased in 2009 from the initially projected 1.4 to 1.8% and therefore actual harmonisation has not yet been made by a half difference, that is 0.2%, it is right to do so within the expected deadlines. This increase is valid from 1 January 2010 onwards, and this is also all the content of the law that we are going to adopt today. The draft law is in line with the views of the Legislative and Legal Service. He also gave written consent to the content. It's a court of law. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u191	Respectable. Even on behalf of the SDS, a very nice greeting. The law that we are going to decide today is a law that actually reflects the actual situation, the actual ability of the current government and reflects the increasingly poor conditions for the Slovenian economy, the decline of the Slovenian economy and the fact that the current current set of challenges cannot find the right answer to the search for a way out of the crisis. Tomorrow we will consider something that has a bombastic title, a way out of the crisis, but based on completely wrong assumptions, on the belief in the state's omnipotence, so it is clear that substantial improvements will not be expected for a short period of time. For this reason, as I said, this law is a real reflection of the current situation in the Slovenian economy, Slovenian public finances and so on throughout society. As far as finding a way out of the crisis is concerned, however, this law is also a reflection of the fact that the only real option to find a way out of the crisis is this only exit strategy, after we have been in constant decline in the quality of life, with the constant increase in the number of unemployed people in the current current set of assets in just a year owed EUR 6.3 billion, which is more than half of what was once the total debt of the former Yugoslavia, which caused the collapse of a country. The fact that early elections take place as soon as possible and that the current current set of business deals with power is the only way out of the crisis that would be a viable way out for our country. In the current situation, we will support this law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. The objective of the proposed amendment was to establish the implementation of Annex No 2 to the Public Sector Collective Treaty, which was concluded on 28 October 2009 with representative public sector unions. Furthermore, it is a matter of setting the same deadline for the elimination of wage imbalances as laid down for public servants, including for officials. The Annex in its Article 1 provides for the harmonisation of wages in January 2010 in the event that the actual increase in prices of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia exceeds the projected increase in prices of living needs in the spring forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. We will really support the proposed changes in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! On 28.10.2009, the Government and the representative public sector unions signed the Annex No 2 h of the Public Sector Collective Treaty, which provides for the harmonisation of salaries in January 2010. To harmonise wages, half the difference between the projected and actual increase in prices of living needs and the projected increase in inflation is taken into account. The proposal provides for the harmonisation of the basic wage in the public sector from 1 January by 0.2%, which we will support in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The Law on Intervention Measures for the Economic Crisis and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 provide that the last part of the disproportionates in basic salaries for officials shall be abolished within the time limit set for the definitive elimination of imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendment to the law setting out the specific date of this removal, which is 1 October 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 5.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u197	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - discusses the Proposal for a Recommendation on Unpublished Public Tenders of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy for the period 2009-2013. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation concerning the unpublished public tenders of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy for the period 2009-2013 is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 31. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and therefore the procedure for the proposal for an act has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on minimum wage, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 February 2010. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 3a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u198	Dear Mr. President! I think that at the time of my presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have made it very clear what the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to achieve with the amendment that we tabled on this proposal for a law. It was probably very clear that with this amendment we want to achieve that the burdens and consequences of the law, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are not fully passed on to employers, but rather that the obligations of this law are assumed by the state budget. There are many reasons for that. Firstly, we are all aware that the economic, financial and social situation in the country is extremely problematic. We are also all aware that there are already over 100,000 unemployed. With the adoption of the Minimum Wages Act, as proposed by the Government, without the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, there could be an increase in unemployment by at least 20, 25 or 30,000. This would be a number that, in addition to what is already now, would be significantly too large, and for the future, the economic future and the development of the economy in Slovenia would have severe consequences so that the country could come out of this economic financial crisis in this critical situation with such solutions. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment seeks to achieve the objective of making those recipients of social monetary assistance more satisfied on the one hand with this increase, on the other hand employers and on the third hand countries. And if we could achieve that, that would be the optimism we want to achieve with this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the minimum wage is substantially too low. We are also aware that the law proposed by the Government carries the burden from the country to employers in its entirety. And that's what's most questionable and most problematic. If you accept the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will come to a solution, as I initially said, that employers will be satisfied, those who receive minimum wages and the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. I also share the view with virtually all in this assembly that the current minimum wage does not allow a decent life, in particular those who also work physically for this salary and have quite a few costs that those office workers may not have. Why would I support this amendment? In addition to the reasons stated by Comrade Pojbič on behalf of the Group of Members, this is also due to the fact and circumstances of the adoption of this Law on Minimum Wage, which is a precedent and which has happened for the first time, and I hope that for the last time. This is that you have proposed, the Government, the minimum wage law, which is inconsistent between the social partners, which has not been coordinated with the social partners. And so far, according to my information, no amendment to the minimum wage law has come to Parliament to prevent it from being previously harmonised. This amendment at least partially softens and accepts the interests of those parties of the social partners with whom this solution has not been aligned. It's the employers. By this law you place all or most of the burden on them. It is therefore correct for me to correct this unacceptable intervention in social dialogue and in the social partnership by supporting this amendment and putting the financial burden of this law on the country, not on those with which this solution is not harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-11-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Wages of Officials in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System in the framework of the urgent procedure. May I have your attention in the hall? Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we will resume tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you so much and good night.
