ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Alojz Posedel, Flowers Zalokar Orazem, Janja Klasinc, Dr. Peter Verlic, Marijan Pojbič, Janez Ribič, mag. Borut Saiovic from 16.30 p.m. and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. I invited the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all other items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 16 March 2010. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of items from the agenda. With regard to the proposals for an extension of the agenda, I inform you that the group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Anton Anderlik 16. 3. 2010 tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to examine the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, reduced procedure [[EPA 943-V]] and at the same time proposed that the draft law extend the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly 11. 3. On the same day, pursuant to Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities, the Italian Self-Governmental National Community was forwarded to the opinion. The time limit for obtaining an opinion was 29. 3. 2010 As a result of this proposal for an extension of the agenda, I will not put to the vote, as it would violate the legal right of the Italian Self-Governmental Community to deliver an opinion on the proposal for a law relating to the situation of members of the national community before the decision of the National Assembly. At the same time, I inform you that, in accordance with the request of a group of Members to convene an extraordinary meeting, the draft law will be considered within a 15-day time limit, provided for 31. 3. 2010, this is the time within which the Italian Self-Governmental National Community will be able to deliver its opinion. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. Mr. Anderlich, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Mr President, I am surprised at this behaviour because you refused to extend the agenda, because all the conditions are met to extend this agenda with the said agenda. Moreover, the National Assembly is obliged to do what is within its jurisdiction: decide on the law, regardless of who is against, who is in favour. It is certain that an article was published in Del on the 12th and 13th of this month, where it is reported from this house that you do not intend to put this item on the agenda before April 12. I'm warning you that the deadline for setting up has already expired, so you say. And now you are extending the deadline by citing that you need the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality. You got him. The government has given it to you today, where it is explicitly stated that this community of the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran is opposed, but this has nothing to do with the fact that the law is being considered to be decided on by any opinion here. Your explanation is unacceptable if we have already missed the deadline we set ourselves or set the law, then let us extend it for a while. For the first time in this year, after five, six congregations were established, once again the congregations were called upon to give their opinion. Not once so far. Apparently everything with the intention of stalling. On Saturday's work you can read who's doing this and ask you nicely, do your job together, all of you, the Government, Parliament, to be interested and those who are constitutionally entitled to seek their right in court so that they can do so. Four years ago, in this Chamber, we had to correct our decision, which, by not voting on the establishment of certain congregations, was then reinstated at the request of the Administrative Court. And three. 5. Under code F, the law was passed because the Administrative Court imposed it on us. It is our duty to allow those interested and affected to seek their way in court if the National Assembly and the Government have already acted contrary to the law and, above all, irresponsible to citizens and citizens who have exercised their constitutional right to request a referendum and have also voted on the establishment of their communities. We do not have the right to make decisions, but we do not have the right to delay with certain excuses that are not correct. You have an opinion, you also have the opinion of the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Trebnje, and you can submit this point with all the papers to this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Mr Anderlič, when I ordered this bill to be sent to the opinion of the Italian Self-Governmental National Community, I did not know about this opinion, but even if, in accordance with the law, I would require such an opinion, because it must be obtained before the decision is taken by that authority, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to make it very clear that this deadline that we gave to the Government on 23 February for the adoption of the law on 8 February is three months before the first possible tendering deadline that this deadline has not actually been respected. The fact is that this law must be adopted and the fact is that, on the basis of this law, I, as President of the National Assembly, will decide when appropriate on the call for elections in local communities in Slovenia. That is why I want and expect this law to be adopted without a shadow of a doubt as to the procedure. That is why, of course, I will not put this proposal to the vote, as I have already mentioned. Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, I will not allow this to be discussed. We're moving to the vote. I've said my thing. You said your thing. The decision is on me, and I also explain the Rules of Procedure, so we will proceed to the vote. We're voting on the agenda. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 2. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Two against.]] I take it that the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Notification by the President of the Government of Dr. Milan's derogation from the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food function. Prime Minister Borut Pahor wrote to me by letter of 11. 3. In 2010, he announced that Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, had resigned as Minister. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, for an explanation of his resignation. Please, in front of the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. Dear Members. I thank you for this opportunity to explain the reasons for my resignation as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. On my second visit to the Ministry, I set two main objectives, improving relations with Slovenian agricultural land and preparing a new strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture with a view to improving the situation of Slovenian agriculture and, above all, forestry, but I did not realize that these contents, at least some, were simply untouchable. My decision to resign was influenced by two key events. The first is an unequivocal example of the Bulmastifs. A lot of questions were raised in public. The issue of legality, then independence, independence from government officials, legal procedures, alleged pressures, then the issue of public interest protection and so on. The answers to these questions are also within the competence of the different departments within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry was also, of course, informed that, among other things, a misappropriation law, namely the one in force at the time of the 2006 attack, was used instead of 2007. I reiterate the important fact that in February 2008, when the Ministry decided to appeal to the dog owner, it was the Animal Protection Act of 2007. However, to apply the old law was decided by the Administrative Court, not by the Ministry. This thesis is also justified by the legal interpretation that the administrative procedure on this matter was not initiated until after the adoption of the amendment of that law. Therefore, the Ministry had to follow the judgment of the Court, since the Administrative Dispute Act expressly stipulates that the Authority is absolutely bound by the court’s legal opinion in its re-decision on the application of substantive law. The Ministry cannot and must not act contrary to the determination and direction of the courts. The Law on Courts provides that a judicial decision must be respected by every natural and legal person in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Ministry cannot judge the judgments of the Administrative Court, since in the administrative dispute procedure the Ministry is not a body of authority but only an entity of administrative judicial control. It would be a violation of the fundamental constitutional principle of the division of power, which is the basis of all constitutional arrangements of modern, democratic and legal states. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Justice was unable to appeal or initiate an audit, I believe that the Ministry has used all legal means to protect public interest in this case. It was also clear to the Ministry that it had ignored the opinion of the profession despite the fact that its decision was based exactly on the expert opinion of the expert commission, which had the task of assessing whether dogs should be put to death, whether they could be preserved in life and under what conditions. The Commission was independently drawn up in accordance with the legislation of internationally recognised experts. Experts have expressed their opinion that, due to the safe living conditions and appropriate behaviour, and also to the appropriate influence of the dog on the part of the owner, they can be returned to domestic care. In addition, the conditions under which these dogs cannot endanger other humans and animals have been specified. The Ministry would respect the decisions of the expert commission regardless of the type of decision. Furthermore, it is clear from the minutes of the administrative inspection that all procedures relating to the return of dogs at the Ministry have been properly carried out. The Ministry did not infringe the rules when it followed the rulings of the Administrative Court and did so correctly when, on the basis of a complaint against the third decisions of the Veterinary Administration, it initiated the findings with a view to deciding the case itself. There were also no errors in the appointment of an expert committee evaluating the behavioural characteristics of animals. That's what the administrative inspection report says. Therefore, it follows from the above that the Ministry acted fully in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Administrative Court’s judgment and the opinion of the Executive Commission. I have also been asked several times what I would have done as an expert veterinarian, but I have been a minister and, of course, as a minister, I am obliged to respect the applicable legislation, I must not affect the administrative procedure, and I certainly have not been in the role of interfering in any way with the prescribed procedures, implementing opinions, or even opposing the ruling of the Administrative Court. In doing so, I would point out once again that I also offered the day after the event a derogation to the President of the Government, who did not accept it. So much for that first reason. With regard to the suspicion of the promise of benefits in the case of the construction of the Aeronautical Museum in Murska Sobota, there are many misinformations, non-truths, including distorted facts about my communication with the two members of the Slovenian National Party. The initiative for the Aeronautics Centre project is not new, it is old, in 2008. And the fact is that the interest of the Member and the President of the National Party of the Victory of Jelinčič as an initiator was very great. The project was supported by various ministries. The responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture was solely to determine whether the proposal for the location of the museum submitted by the municipality met the requirements of the Law on Spatial Planning concerning the construction of the best agricultural land, no more and no less. And after the field meeting of the Government in Pomour in November 2009, we had a special meeting on this, the Minister of Transport was present, the Secretary of State for Pomuri, the Mayor of Murska Sobota, Ambassador Jelinčič, and so was I. And we agreed that this was a national interesting and important project to be supported. The move was followed by a municipality, no one else, who was to introduce the spatial needs of the project into the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. According to Mr Yelinčič, the activities were not carried out quickly enough and he has repeatedly pointed out the timing of the proceedings. For example, with regard to the 27 January museum project on one of the televisions, he also publicly criticized me as minister and accused me of blocking the project. The next day, I replied to his unfounded allegations by writing to him here in Parliament through a member of his party. The deer was not present at the hall at the time, and this letter is this, I might say, famous envelope that is mentioned in police hearings and found online. In this letter to Mr Jelinčić, I express only a protest regarding public criticism and explain the competences of the Municipality of Murska Sobota and the powers of the Ministry in this process. No more and no less. I would like to point out that in no case does the ministry transfer land to the municipalities and, of course, also as a minister, in no way can I fulfill such a thing. In order to change the destination of the best agricultural land to a habitable land, municipalities need to explore alternative solutions and ways of replacing land. In the case of the municipal spatial plan of the Murska Sobota, the municipality proposed and proposed to exempt 28.5 hectares of already walled land from the valid spatial plan of the municipality, for which the municipality would propose a change of purpose to the area for the construction of plants. On these grounds, we would place glassware and, using geothermal water, provide the possibility of producing vegetables. In short, very interesting, developmental interesting project. This would, of course, correspond to the replacement of 28,5 hectares of the best agricultural land on which it is proposed to build a museum. The Ministry agrees with this proposal. I am speaking in the present instance, because the conditions to be met by the municipality in order to obtain a spatial plan and clear requirements for the replacement of the best land have been stated to the Mayor on 5 March in a special letter. The spatial project of the congregation has not yet been adopted, as there are other issues that need to be addressed. So there are no signed documents in this regard. Despite the proper activities of the municipality, Member Jelinčič, with his well-known perseverance, continued to want projects to be accelerated in setting up the museum. He repeatedly asked questions about procedures and, lastly, with a written call on 2 March, where he asked to be informed in writing about the state of the procedure. The professional service prepared such an answer, we were going to hand it over last week, but in the meantime there were events that you know. However, the preparation of the written response of the Ministry's professional service was also my so-called "fulfilled promise", which is also mentioned in the hearings. So much for a brief comment. In the public, some hearings are also interpreted as negotiating possible support for my interpretation of the Bulmastif issue, which I think are irrelevant; you judge. I had, as you know, support for the President of the Government, but I also had support in the coalition. I talked about this with several parliamentary groups and they expressed their support for me. However, the speaker of the interpretation, as you know, must gather 46 votes. It is clear from the above that any suspicion of a promise of benefit is unfounded. In all of this, there was no trading or buying of the votes of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. On their part, support to the Ministry of Agriculture was repeatedly expressed, especially for regulating farming conditions and livestock farming in Crassus, in order to understand each other. So, I strongly object to the fact that, on the basis of the misinterpretation of communication between me as a former minister and certain Members - I have also communicated with you others to understand - it shows as if it were a trade or some other corruption. I also do not agree to be involved in the plans and interviews of individual Members, including Members of the National Party; these are other dialogues. With regard to the vote on the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, I must also say that it has had no impact on Members in this vote, as is evident from the results of the double vote. On December 28th, when you first voted on this law, you were 76, 50 of you voted "yes", 6 of you "against", all of you abstained. The national party contributed 5 votes at the time, so they had already decided to support the law. In the second vote of January, there were 73 Members and Members in the Chamber, 46 of whom were 'yes', indeed the last border. Members of the National Party then contributed only 3 votes. It is true, however, that some Members of the Social Democrats were absent. This is true, and this may have made the result worse than it would have been; we also discussed it. But, however, we all know that Members of Parliament are voting in accordance with your conscience and that you are completely autonomous. So much for that. Dear Members and Members! I believe that further procedures will show that I have acted in accordance with the laws. I also deny that I have acted improperly or even corruptly in any way. I hope to prove this by the facts that are evident from the documents relating to the contested findings. But I gave up on principle. There's more than one cause. For a month and a half, the Bulmastifs matter, of course, various pressures are being exerted. However, I never shirked responsibility for the ministry's work. However, it is true that I wanted to explain to the public the proper and legal functioning of the Ministry, in particular the teams of lawyers who conducted these legal proceedings, and I think, at least after the findings so far, that they were properly guided. After the event last week, when the promise of benefit is clear to me and I have also been detained, I think it is impossible for me to continue to perform the minister's task successfully, irrespective of guilt. I think it would be particularly difficult to continue the work of the Ministry and believe me, the agricultural ministry is very important for Slovenia. We forget about this too often. That's why I gave up irrevocably on March 10th. Dear Members and Members! I must say that I have worked well with the National Assembly, at least in my view, and therefore thank you for your cooperation and also for all your support during my ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr Milan Pogačnik has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, he shall carry out ongoing operations. I thank Dr. Milan Pogačnik for his cooperation, and I wish him the best in his work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - NOTIFIED BY THE COURT OF COURT IN COPAR, THE COURT OF COURT OF JUSTICE ON THE COMPETITION AND STARTING OF THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE OF THE COURT OF STATE. The District Court of Cyprus, the Criminal Investigation Department, forwarded notices to the meeting. The notices were treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Cyprus, Criminal Investigation Section, operative number KPR-32/2010, of 15. 3. on the establishment of an investigation and the determination of a detention against the Member of the National Assembly of the Srečko Friends for the alleged suspicion of a crime of extortion, pursuant to Article 213/3 and IKZ/1, as well as the offence of illicit production of arms or explosives under Article 307/2 and IKZ-1, with a total of 9. 3. 2010 caught in a crime, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Happy Friends and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. I understand that the decision has been taken. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one's against it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCES TO THE REFERENCE OF THE LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE ON THE AMENDMENT OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW OF THE STATUS OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE OTHER COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE FRANCE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. On 12 March 2010, 31 Members and Members submitted to the Assembly a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Nationals of Other States Successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to this request, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposed to the Council a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by incurring the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia - EPA 735/5 or its rejection at the referendum could have had negative consequences. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, to the member of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Miran Potrč, for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Mr. President of the National Assembly. Madam Secretary. Secretary of State. At its 14th session, on 8 March 2010, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, known as the Deleted Act. He thus fulfilled the obligation imposed on him by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by Decision U1 246/02 of 3 April 2004. After more than six and a half years, it thus eliminated the anti-constitutional situation caused by the transfer of large numbers of residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia from the register of permanent residence to the so-called dead record. As a result of this removal, the rights of legal residence in Slovenia have been revoked without a decision or other advance notice and the valid and legal personal documents have been destroyed until then. The Constitutional Court demanded that the status rights and the personal status they had previously had to be returned to them on the day of their deletion, which is on 26 February 1992. 31 Members and Members of the SDS and SNS have submitted a request for citizens and citizens to decide on the implementation of that law at the referendum. They believe that the law is adopted in an illegal manner, is misleading and unclear and confers rights that offend citizens and their independence. The SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS requested, in accordance with the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, that the National Assembly, prior to the invitation to a referendum, require the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the application or by rejecting the adoption of the proposed law, there would be unconstitutional consequences. The signatories to this proposal to the decision are of the opinion that a decree to enforce the law would already be in force, and in particular its rejection of the referendum would indisputably result in unconstitutional consequences. In view of the failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, the anti-constitutional situation would continue indefinitely. It would be impossible to fulfil the basic requirement of the Constitutional Court that the injured be returned to their status and situation on 26 February 1992 and that the procedures and conditions necessary for the individual to be determined, on the basis of clear criteria and procedures, to whom rights under the law are granted. The facts already cited give sufficient grounds for the application of that law to breaches of constitutional obligations would be breached by the principle of the legality of the rule of law and legal certainty. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. In doing so, we have stressed that even if the reasons for the referendum were justified, of course they are not, the question raised by the motions for a referendum cannot be decided by a referendum where citizens and citizens can only vote in favour or against the whole law, but cannot correct individual provisions or eliminate possible unconstitutionalities. Therefore, we are convinced that the sole purpose of the signatories to the request for a referendum is to replay the content of the Constitutional Court decision and to prevent the regulation of law in accordance with the law on deleted persons. The two proposals were discussed and decided by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at yesterday's meeting. In accordance with the procedure provided for, the Committee first voted on the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly should require the Constitutional Court to determine whether the suspension of the application or the rejection of the contested law would have had an adverse effect. The Committee adopted the proposal by a majority of votes, making it irrelevant to decide on the referendum. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! With regard to the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the application of the deleted Law, I give the following position of the Government. In 1992, the Republic of Slovenia deleted a larger number of residents from the permanent population register. The Constitutional Court first found the non-constitutional nature of their deletion 11 years ago. However, a subsequent attempt to remedy the consequences of the first version of the law was again declared unconstitutional 7 years ago. The law recently passed in the National Assembly, on which the opposition today calls for a referendum, should be adopted no later than October 2003, i.e. more than six years ago. Any delay in the regulation of the situation of deleted persons means a continuation of the anti-constitutional situation, to which only the Constitutional Court has expressly pointed. The purpose of this law is in accordance with a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court and in the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, according to which Slovenia is a legal and democratic country that respects human rights, to fully regulate that part of the injustices to the deleted and inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia relating to their deprivation of status. In addition to implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the law also eliminates certain shortcomings which have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the law and in the issuance of supplementary decisions and which also result from the deletion of the citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ from the Register of Permanent Populations. For example, it regulates the status of children who have been deleted as their present state of law is not in line with the principle of the highest protection of the benefit of children in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. With this law, the Republic of Slovenia gives no one, no compensation, no citizenship, no electoral rights. It doesn't artificially inflate the number of deleted. It opens up only a legally correct and, after many years, the only possible way to regulate the status of people who have been unlawfully erased. That we do this 18 years after our disappearance and 7 years after the correction of human rights violations was imposed on us by the Constitutional Court, is a fact that speaks for itself, even if we take into account a long list of respected international institutions that have warned us in the meantime that it was in breach of international human rights obligations. These are the following institutions: the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance and the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. The referendum on this law is about whether it is permissible to enforce a decision of the Constitutional Court which has found a violation of the human rights of a particular minority. Allowing it would undermine the overall ratio of brakes and balances passed on by the Slovenian Constitution on behalf of the rule of law and the modern understanding of the European model of constitutional liberal democracy. The referendum, at which citizens would decide on the human rights of a minority, would be unconstitutional. Without a doubt, we would find it unacceptable if the citizens of neighbouring countries decided in this way on bilingualism in the Austrian Koroška or the presence of the Slovenian Permanent Theatre in Trieste. The attitude towards minorities is a test stone of the tolerance of every society, so both national minorities in Slovenia are provided a special position. But deleted is not about privilege. It's about correcting the injustices committed by the state. And it is time to finally close this painful chapter in the history of independent Slovenia, and to raise the issue of respect for human rights above the level of populist acquisition of political points and sowing intolerance and intolerance. The Government therefore fully supports the proposal to declare the constitutionality of such a referendum to the Constitutional Court as the highest guardian of the Slovenian Constitution, of which the people have power in the Republic of Slovenia, but this authority is limited to fundamental human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following are the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Let me start in a different way than you certainly expect at this point, because to understand why it is the whole story of the so-called deleted, and why it requires the coalition at this point to request a referendum to the Constitutional Court, to avoid the referendum and also to discuss the arguments, the individual solutions and their policy, is still relevant to what has been said in response to the findings of the JLA generals, led by General Aksentijevic, who have received ethnic cleansing from Slovenia, equaled independence with the Holocaust and said that in Slovenia up to 30,000 people have been erased, he replied, quote former President Milan Kučan: "The number is fictional, but it is not the first thing Aksentijevic invented. As far as I know, it is about 4 thousand people who are not known whether they are still in Slovenia or have left Slovenia." What seems to me to be the least acceptable is that anyone with the pressures of those who may not have really been able to regulate their status is now politically manipulating even the claims that ethnic cleansing has occurred in Slovenia. Not only is the central point of the requirement for a constitutional assessment made by the coalition that in Slovenia there have been grave, systematic violations of human rights, i.e. ethnic cleansing, precisely the term 'ethnic cleansing' in relation to the event that Slovenia carried out in its independence, has been used several times in the discussions of the coalition members in the National Assembly; you can look back at the magnetograms and see for yourself. Worse still, at the last session, when we discussed this issue, one of the Members allowed himself to be insulted and hated when he drew quite an equation between the Holocaust and the Slovenian independence due to the so-called deletion. So today this coalition does not speak the words of Milan Kučan, but precisely the words of former JLA generals, led by Mr Milan Aksentijevic. That is why the thing we are facing today is so important because it is far - reaching. Because it also talks about the key problem facing the transition left as a whole today. It is its crisis of identity and the crisis of values and symbols, a little more later. That the bad news before their own voters is a serious thing and that, in the coalition, they know best that their own electorates, including new citizens, would never support the fact that the invaders would also be rewarded for their actions, proves the coalition's conduct in hasteing the adoption of this law. The law is adopted in clear contradiction to the Rules of Procedure, even in clear contradiction to the Constitution, because it is entirely based on lies. The law already stated at the outset: "This law will have no financial implications for the state budget." That, of course, this is not only an obvious non-truth, but such a claim is quite ridiculous, it has already appeared at the Minister's statements yesterday at the hearing, and before that, Mr Secretary of State, when we addressed this issue at the Internal Policy Committee meeting, where he stated that it is likely that the processes and also the recognition of the rights to return, compensation, in all cases, I quote, "will not be avoided." It should be known, however, that even if a single decision is written by a coalition, a certain administrative body, this costs something, just a decision, not an administrative procedure as a whole, which is more extensive, material acquisition, review, data verification, etc. What it costs, we can consider from those items which were intended exclusively for writing so-called provisional decisions, which once contained 30 million tolars; when they were exhausted, they ceased to issue them, under Mr Bohince in 2004. [[..]] And that means that it is only to write one decision, if we just look at this item, once again, it is not a whole process. It is only worth writing one such decision and sending it 33 euros if we are calculating it at the present time. Now this number, which is covered by this law several times higher and, of course, this figure is very clear that it is not a reality, but it is only a beginning, because this law is significantly more demanding, provides for certain procedures, verifications and, of course, provides for the possibility of monitoring two-stage decision-making as well, which, of course, is still essential for factor 10 or 100. Then it starts. Cases will go to court, or to an administrative apparatus with requirements for redress or compensation in a narrow sense through the courts, as the greater problem is certainly the right to return. Imagine the differences, for example, as an example I am giving, between an officer's pension somewhere in Serbia and an officer's pension somewhere in Slovenia, the difference that is measured in thousands and more euros can be significantly more. Imagine the exercise of the rights to return from the Jasbinska Law, for all those officers of the former JLA and other employees of the Federal Authority who sent their families somewhere south, home, because they knew they were preparing an attack on independent Slovenia. The self - disgraced then departed with that ship and returned in time, and then this problem only really began to develop. There will still be some current demand to allow them to buy their apartments under extremely favourable conditions or, of course, a financial difference in the value of their dwellings then and today, you can imagine what amounts, because they will still be revalued by interest 10, 15 years ago in such cases we can talk and even if no one is recognised, eventually these administrative and judicial proceedings will be extremely large in themselves, because it is not possible to forget that even the coalition had previously known why it changed the Free Legal Aid Act, which of course we pay taxpayers like everything else, which I have been talking about, and thus allowing everyone who will say they cannot pay their lawyer to have free legal aid, in this way will, of course, be paid from taxpayers' money. You also know the voters of the transition left well, you would never have approved it, and therefore the escape from the public was a method that you have already used in choosing the procedure. The rapid procedure, the one-phase procedure, of course, was not justified in this case. You know this very well, because only when it comes exclusively to the overflow of a decision by the Constitutional Court is it determined in the letter of the law itself. In this case, however, the law regulates a number of things that the Constitutional Court has not touched at all or spoken of. And so the law should certainly be adopted on a regular basis. Thus, the first time that he was fully founded on lies is reason enough to challenge the adoption of this law. In fact, the Constitutional Court, if followed by a letter of law, should only have to remove this law from the legal order of the State of Slovenia, if ever enforced. However, I honestly doubt that we are living in a state of law where we could have so much power for the rule of law. What the Constitutional Court will do before deciding on this request for a referendum is to weigh constitutional rights and constitutional values, as the right to a referendum is also a constitutional right. This is often forgotten, but it is one fundamental human and constitutional rights that are already derived from the rule that is the first in the Slovenian Constitution - that the people, as the bearer of all powers, the sole holder of all powers, exercise their power directly, that is, by referendum. This provision is not accidental in the first place, for in the Constitution these provisions are laid down thoughtfully and definitively. For this reason, every time the Constitutional Court denies the right to a referendum, it has objectively violated or at least restricted human rights to all citizens and citizens, and therefore all the constitutional profession warns that this provision should be applied only exceptionally and thus severely restrictively. However, in the present case, this obvious, already procedurally unconstitutional law and, of course, the fact that it is a sovereign political decision of the current coalition, which goes through a decision of the Constitutional Court, much wider than it is, governs matters which the Constitutional Court has not regulated, testifies that the request for a referendum is justified. What is at stake in the law, purely from a legal point of view, is that the law is written, not in one article, but in many such 20 points as can be found in it, it is extremely extensive that it contains unclear provisions which, if you are careful, after not one article, but at least ten, if not hundreds of decisions of the Constitutional Court, are not allowed to enter into any law governing the field of human rights. Let me just give you one example that is so obvious to everyone. To determine one of the fundamental conditions under this law when it comes to the fulfilment of permanent residence, the word 'or' is now in it. Look what we'll get if this thing gets a closer look. Previously, it was considered that actual residence in the country of Slovenia was recognised or evident from the conduct of an individual on condition that he had social, economic and other ties with Slovenia. Now the word "but" is in between. It is said that normally it can have social, economic, related and other connections, that is logical, or other connections. What's the other connection? That he might know the Minister of the Interior. This is also another connection with Slovenia, so it already meets the requirements of this law. This, of course, is just an example of how vague such provisions have been, and I hope that no one will say that this will be governed by any kind of sub-law, because the Constitutional Court has also written, at least ten times in similar cases, that such criteria should be laid down exclusively in the law, and it is by no means permissible for a vague provision affecting these fundamental rights to be governed by certain sub-laws. Of course it's not an accident. This is also because the correct formulation, when the cumulative word "and" was used, was present all the time also in those legal acts that you have been preparing in the past period and this word "or" appeared only in the end as the fruit of your deliberate planning policy, with which you want to obtain the widest possible range of voters, because it is about buying voters at the expense of already poor people because of your incompetence to rule in crisis situations at the expense of all citizens and citizens. Well, what's particularly controversial about this marriage is that it talks all the time about it at the starting point, it's a very large number of people. I would like to remind you that the former fewer than 4,000 people whom Mr Milan Kučan referred to under this authority, Katarina Kresal, suddenly jumped from 18 to 26 000. It is also likely that this obviously exaggerated number must be justified, and that is why such formulations are, therefore, the more obvious fruit of your sovereign policy and, therefore, how else can the subjects of the referendum people be, as proposed by the proponents. Now, if that were true, or what you claim in some points, that Slovenia should live all the time, including this moment, a thousand, even about 20,000, if we subtract those who have already settled their status, people without all rights, without any possibility of survival, without status, then surely the first Minister of the Interior should go, because we would live in a banana republic without any legal order. You all know that's not the case. So what are we really talking about today? We're talking about a structure, an overblown structure, where it throws itself into one basket of different things. It can be that someone has ever been wronged and in the SDS we have always advocated if someone has been wronged to find out in an individual procedure. It would be best to lay down the constitutional law that we have also proposed, but that those who have attacked the state of Slovenia, speculators, cannot benefit from it. Here we are moving from purely legal, including to the issue of weighing fundamental constitutional values. For what is most important in this law, as you have adopted it, is that you have rejected even those minimum amendments of the SDS, by which the possibility of enforcing all things under this law would be eliminated exclusively and only those who attacked Slovenia with weapons or speculators. So the invaders. When we used the term occupiers, there was a little bit of a cry: "That's an inappropriate expression." International law, ladies and gentlemen, is the whole story; and this, I fear, is very difficult to understand; it is because a new country has emerged. Slovenia was founded on a plebiscite decision on 25 July by a new country which had its constitutional basis in the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the State of Slovenia and which was attacked on the day later, solely and solely by the occupiers, from an international legal point of view. The aggressors who attack the independent state are the invaders. The attack is an attempt at occupation. So not only is this term appropriate, but it is even the only right one, and now we come to what is most controversial in this law. The law is now written in such a way that it can and will claim that the situation will arise when, in a more favourable position after the exercise of the rights under this law, the person who once attacked Slovenia as an aggressor, as a new citizen, the person who, in 1991, wanted to respect the legal order of the State of Slovenia, was loyal to the country of Slovenia and regulated its status, permanent, temporary residence or citizenship, without any problems, if that is the only thing she wanted. This law represents an incomprehensible legal precedent. For the first time in history, the employees of the occupying party will be rewarded because you did not want to exclude them from the exercise of rights under this law without any restriction on compensation. Do you know what that means in practice? For someone who suffered in a concentration camp of Nazism or fascism, the country limited compensation to about 1,000 euros for a year of such suffering. For someone who was killed by a child in those indescribable post-war crimes by the former communist authorities, only a few hundred euros is a limited compensation. For the fallen in the war for Slovenia, which has given the most for this country that we can speak and decide here today, it has given our lives, there is limited compensation to a maximum of EUR 3 000. But for the man who was shooting at the head of the JLA tank column, in an attack on the border crossing at the north border, he shot at civilian objects and for that, no compensation was limited, you did not limit it in any way. This is also a legal precedent. However, something valuable is worth preserving for history as something that should not have happened in a democratic country and, in fact, until this moment, it has been verified, has not yet happened anywhere. In no democratic country in the world will you find a law that would allow whoever attacked this country to exercise any right to return. There's no such thing as a marriage. This is the result of this structure that we are talking about today. Imagine the position of those new citizens and citizens who were loyal to Slovenia, who felt at home here among us and who, at the time of independence in 1991, settled and were therefore by, in particular, former JLA officers as well as other central government officials, partly by the national line of some southern nations, greatly embarrassed, even by traitors, even exposed to threats and physical violence. We have heard of this quite a bit of witnessing in the National Assembly. Let me only remember the first among them, Mr Alijeski, who was threatened with a loaded war pistol because he had regulated his status as a permanent resident and later as a citizen in accordance with the legislation of the State of Slovenia. And today those who then threatened these people, the new citizens and the citizens, who are also among the so-called deleted, will be given the opportunity to exercise all the rights to return, compensation, and even late interest, and will be the moment when they establish this in a more favourable position than their colleagues who were loyal to Slovenia and have settled their status at the time of that time. You will not find such a case in any country, and such a case is also in conflict with the fundamental principle of righteousness, which is a legal principle, the real source of justice. Then the coalition has repeatedly shouted that it wants, even when we have discussed the issue of a proposal for a constitutional review on the committee, to give a list of who they are. The list obviously has an internal ministry, because the information I was talking about was given by the Minister when she discussed the proposal for her interpretation. She said there were some 100 JLA officers among the so-called deleted. How many other staff members of JLA and other services of the former central government are unknown, she did not say, but when asked, she may present data and a list today. But if there's 10 of them in it, it's 10 too. For imagine what humiliation this is, to all the new citizens and citizens and to all those who together have defended and co-created the state of Slovenia, that they will be able to assert the rights of those who, not only did they not want them back then, because they have attacked Slovenia with weapons, but they have tried to prevent the exercise of these rights by force to all others, including all of us who are sitting here today and deciding on these things. Only some of you have apparently forgotten that fact. This is also often referred to by the coalition, some of which you have also written in the law that legal decisions should be taken in the courts. We all know that no one in Slovenia has been, and obviously will never be convicted of war crimes committed by JLA in the attack on Slovenia alone. Why not? It's clear. More than 10 years ago, in a case-by-case judgment there was a court-martial, a court-martial, a court-martial, stated that by October 1991 JLA was not an enemy army of Slovenia. Whoever attacked us - the Hunting Society of Upper Wakuf or anyone else, they didn't write it. But if we have, as Kranian lawyer Klep says,'red criminals', then this is something that can't be an excuse, but there must be a reason that the legislator also takes this fact into account and incorporates into the law of another, obviously the only possible, administrative guards, to look closely at what actually at the time of the independence, especially during the war for Slovenia, who attacked Slovenia with weapons and, of course, those who did so and who obviously did not want any status in this country do not recognise the rights to return. And then we get to the bottom of this and I'll get back to the beginning. For I said that what we are facing today is more than just to decide whether this law goes to the Constitutional Court. This law is, in particular, because of this most controversial fact that the coalition insisted that those who attacked Slovenia with weapons, the aggressors, therefore, were included in the law. Why did she insist, for the coalition itself knows well that their voters would never have supported it in any way. We all say, I am sure of this, too, because apparently the coalition didn't want much to deny that it was about getting some new voters, even where it was ethically the most controversial, among the former aggressors, among the invaders. But personally, I'm sure it's a lot more than that. Because of the apparent inability to manage the country in crisis situations, reflected in the drastic fall in social gross product, economic downturn and poverty, and the loss of jobs for citizens and citizens, the coalition was in a serious crisis of identity, because people expected to vote for those who would equally be able to distribute the wealth that this country is overrun, and that it would not just be about rewarding and enriching narrow groups of people, as are now witnesses themselves. And that is why this crisis of identity occurred, so today the coalition speaks the words of former JLA generals with Aksentijevic at the head and not more of Milan Kučan's words. And this identity crisis is going into a crisis of value, which is also evident in the symbol crisis, so it was insistence that former aggressors should also be in this law. It is a crisis of the symbols of the transition left, because today, as a symbol of the transition left, most people in Slovenia no longer recognize the red star as they would like a transition left, but as a symbol of the transition left they recognize even more the "dog of joy" - the sausage of the poor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Mr. Grimes, please. Are you done? The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On 8 March this year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Nationals of Other States Successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, with the eighty votes of Members and Members, in compliance with all democratic rules. On 12 March, a group of Members and Members from SDS and SNS members expected to submit a request for a legislative referendum to that law. In the Group of Ambassadors, we really believe that any continuation of delay or delay in the implementation of the law would also constitute a delay in the anti-constitutional situation, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia had already in 2003 and earlier, in 1999, a warning to such an unconstitutional state, but unfortunately, the abolition of the injustices has not yet occurred. Two constitutional decisions are probably even more than just a warning, they should be taken into account, and unfortunately they are not. Why didn't we? The answer is probably multilayered, but part of the answer is received today by the biggest opposition party. Let me mention that the decision of the Constitutional Court of 3 April 2003 is the second oldest unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, we can certainly claim that in the present case it is a re-examination of the Constitutional Court. In view of the above, we really believe that the referendum proposed by the two opposition parties would be unconstitutional. Since we are only Members, both in the coalition and in the opposition, we also consider that we are not qualified for such an opinion. But there is a constitutionally defined institution that is qualified for this, and this is the Constitutional Court. It is only for this reason that we today propose a decision by which this institution, which I hope, is recognised by all, both the coalition and the opposition, to decide whether such a referendum would create an unconstitutional state or prolong an unconstitutional state that is now being remedied only because we have finally adopted a law that regulates it. The law to which the request for a legislative referendum relates concerns the comprehensive regulation of the rights of the deleted inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it should be pointed out that the law does not foresee, I repeat, the payment of compensation, such as the ongoing and misleading repetition of the opposition. It is also not about acquiring citizenship, as it is misleading to repeat the opposition. In other words, some manipulations or inaccuracies are systematically served by the referendum’s proponent: that the deleted have not regulated their status when they could. I repeat and repeat today what the Constitutional Court has already established and recorded in its first decision in 1999. That wasn't necessary. No one could force the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia who then lived and had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia to regulate their own status. If someone did not, or did not in due time, request and arrange documentation for obtaining citizenship, he has become an automatic, automatic alien. And that's all. No one could force him to settle his foreign status under the law. The Act on Foreigners, to which many refer, does not provide, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, that that group of residents should request and apply for such status. Point 14 of the 1999 Constitutional Court’s decision clearly states that these two articles, which are also referred to several times by the motions for a referendum, should not apply to people who had permanent residence in Slovenia on 25 June 1991. That's why he was erased without a legal basis, i.e. illegal. This illegal situation needs to be regulated and regulated by a law that is significantly more restrictive than the Constitutional Court's requirement, since it foresees individual treatment of each case. Therefore, every deleted citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has a name, surname and has attached documentation proving that he was a permanent resident of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. There is no doubt here, there is no shadow and there is no automatic possibility that this means immediately or in any way getting some compensation. The damages are always and only the result of proof of certain injustices and if, in those cases where the injustices are proven and the damage caused by these injustices has been proven, only in those cases is the rule of law obliged to provide for compensation. And as you know, there are these cases and there will be relatively few of them. We can recall the catastrophic predictions ahead of the so-called Spanish compromise, when it seemed that foreigners would pick up Slovenia for early liberalisation for a particular group of European citizens. The results of these predictions, however, have proved that all those concerns were superfluous. This story is also repeated in deletions. We are confident in the coalition parliamentary groups, and also in the Zares Group, that by delaying the implementation of the law or by rejecting the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other Member States, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia would have unlawful consequences, or that the situation of the anti-constitution and violation of human rights, to which not only our civil society and not only all those institutions listed by the Minister, the specific committees of the United Nations, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the Commission against Racism and Racial Discrimination of the Council of Europe, let us add Amnesty International to this, and if you think that Amnesty International is not a serious organisation, of course it is your legitimate right. I think it is, and we think it is. etc., there are many organisations that have found that this anomaly of Slovenian democratic transition has unfortunately continued for several years and those who think that with further delay Slovenia will offer something better are wrong. It is also because of such a long anti-constitutional situation that we are too embarrassed to think about the possible consequences. These consequences are relatively higher with the duration of the anti-constitutional situation. Therefore, it makes no sense for us to go to a referendum that is not only unconstitutional and illegal, in our view, but we will see what constitutional judges will say about this, but would, above all, be inhuman; inhuman and harmful to Slovenian national interests. Thus, of course, we will strongly and confidently support this decision, because we believe that this decision is in everyone's interest. I think that everyone, all citizens and citizens of Slovenia - and I would also like all Members - to know whether something we are proposing is constitutional or unconstitutional. This is also an implicit assessment of the constitutionality of the law we have adopted. And if the opposition is not convinced of the constitutionality of that law, it has every legal possibility to initiate a constitutional review of the law. But he doesn't do that. But there is much to talk about the unconstitutional nature of our proposals and these solutions. So we have a nice opportunity to give the Constitutional Judges all the information, let's wait and see what they say. I trust the Constitutional Court and hope that the opposition will also trust this institution. Indeed, the Group of Members will support the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be moved by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The debates on so-called deleted have led to an acute political atmosphere and insults are excite to the public. Even a referendum was held in 2004, at which citizens firmly stated that they were not adopting a law regulating back-up status and did not support the issue of supplementary decisions. This was confirmed by the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, which we are in the first public statement on 28. 3. 2002, therefore, before the new Constitutional Court decision, they expressed the view that we need to determine the possibility of individual treatment and pointed out the inadmissibility of the issue of decisions back without determining the actual situation of the actual residence of these persons in Slovenia, which led to the subsequent expulsion of the Slovenian People's Party from the Government. Despite the fact that we had already proposed a constitutional law that could definitively address a problem that was certainly detrimental to the reputation of the rule of law and the solutions in the law at that time were not in line with the coalition agreement at the time. The status in the new country, whether permanent residence or the regulation of citizenship, should, in our firm conviction and in the opinion of many prominent lawyers, be regulated by a regulation of the same rank as we did when it came to independence. So, at least with constitutional law or even with a change of constitution. If all the proponents of the proposed regulation really wanted to address this issue, they would agree and adopt an appropriate constitutional law, which is within the legislator's competence, that is Parliament. In the new country, we all applied, including the current citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as former citizens of the SFRJ, so the new country had to legally determine the way and conditions for all new citizens and foreigners in the territory of the country. So, there's no way to talk about any discrimination, and for all, the law has laid down the conditions. Legal and national continuity also needed to be established. Ever since independence, several attempts have been made to regulate the status of former SFRJ citizens who have practically become foreigners in the new country and who, despite being invited on several occasions, did not want to settle their new status in the new country, no matter how - or as foreigners or as new citizens. We are afraid, and it is also unacceptable that permission to stay or even citizenship in our country will be given to former aggressors, which we consider to be a legitimate concern. The bill, which was adopted this year, provides for individual decision-making procedures for permanent residence permits for deleted persons, i.e. their individual treatment, which begins at the request of an individual, at the same time provides for the issue of a specific decision deemed to have had a permanent residence for a foreigner also to return, i.e. from the deletion. This is not in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act. We are concerned that this will create a legal basis on which these persons can claim compensation from the State. So let the coalition honestly say that citizens will know the consequences of this new law. This problem is too great to be solved by ordinary law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are not among the signatories to the request for a referendum, because we are convinced that many pressing issues relevant to the resolution of the economic, financial, social situation need to be addressed in this regard. We have always believed that the problem of the deleted must be resolved individually, on the basis of constitutional law, and therefore we expect the authors of the law with the Minister in charge to withdraw from their positions if it turns out that the main effects of the adopted law will be resolved in compensation claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin my presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group by predicting that we do not support the call for a legislative referendum in our Group, so we will support the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy that the National Assembly requires the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide whether the required legislative referendum could result in unconstitutional consequences and a situation which does not comply with Articles 2, 8, 14 and 22 and Article 120 and 153 of the Constitution of Slovenia. As we have already said, when the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia is adopted, after 18 years, it is high time for our country to correct the wrongs committed. At the same time, I would like to express my surprise at the wasteful behaviour of the referendum's proponents that they want to impose on the taxpayers, at the time of the financial and economic crisis that our country is not spared, on the costs of the referendum, which, according to our assessment, is unnecessary and would once again result in the unconstitutionality that the law on which the referendum question relates is being abolished. The fact is that the issue referred to in the call for a legislative referendum is the legal regulation of the specific situation of the citizens of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been subject to the Constitutional Court's judgments on several occasions, both within the framework of the laws adopted and in the legislative proposals themselves. As a result, a large-scale constitutional case-law has been drawn up in relation to this issue, which must also be taken into account in the regulation of this matter. Thus, the basic law, which was amended a few days ago, was adopted as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court establishing the unconstitutionality of the law on foreigners, by which the Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to regulate the special legal situation of the citizens of other republics of the former SFRY who had their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia prior to their independence and who also actually resided in its territory, but did not apply for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or were denied an application for citizenship. Let me recall that in cases where the Constitutional Court finds, pursuant to Article 48 of the Constitutional Court Act, the non-constitutionality of the law and instructs the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality established within a specified time limit, it is obliged to provide for a constitutionally compatible regime within that time limit. The National Assembly shall be independent in the regulation of the content of the new regime, which means that it may prescribe any arrangements which it considers to be the most appropriate and constitutionally compatible. And obviously, at our previous regular session, we felt that the proposal for a law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries is the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which was sent to us by the Government, appropriate and constitutionally consistent. That is why we also adopted it with 48 votes in favour. With this passed law, according to our assessment, we have only opened up a legally correct and only possible way to regulate the status of people who were unlawfully erased 18 years ago, and we are correcting the violation of human rights, which the Constitutional Court has also imposed on us. The law gives no one anything, no compensation, no citizenship, no electoral rights. By populism misleading the payment of millions of damages and citizenship to war criminals and speculators, the referendum's proponents express disrespect for the Slovenian Constitution and the Constitutional Court as the guardian of the Slovenian Constitution. Therefore, the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Members of the Slovenian National Party are co-signers of the request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other States of the Successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed referendum issue is clear: Are you in favour of implementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries Inheritances of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia? In March this year, with a narrow majority of 48 Members, the law was adopted by the coalition, the SD, the LDS, the Reals and the DeSUS, which in itself speaks of our eligibility following a request for a legislative referendum. We have many legitimate reasons for that request. Among other things, all those cited by the representative of the proposers. The adoption of the law redefines the eligibility to obtain a permanent residence permit under the Act on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. That's the first one. Second, the law cited essentially refers to the definition of the fundamental values of Slovenia's independence, Slovenian statehood and Slovenian being itself. In the Slovenian National Party, it is in no way clear to us how it is possible for some parties and their representatives in the National Assembly to adopt the law in such a way and after a reduced procedure, I will be a little graphic, almost as if they were adopting some laws on bus tariffs and so on. So, in fact, the business conditions for dealing have been violated. Above all, the Ministry of the Interior’s claims that this law should have no financial implications for the state budget are unrealistic. Such a lie constitutes a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He is misleading us, Members, and above all Slovenian taxpayers. In fact, we can expect thousands of different compensation requirements and procedures, both administrative and judicial, which will in themselves become a country with quite a lot of money. Not to mention the consequences in this way of obtaining permanent residence permits. Keep in mind regulations and laws that are drawn up behind you by obtaining a permanent residence permit. It's a pure lie that it's supposed to be just a moral recognition of a mistake that the state is supposed to have made. There have been cases of lawsuits in public since last year, prepared by some lawyers for the so-called deleted. In some cases, the actions leave even an empty space in the line where the application will be made, the amount in euro. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, if this doesn't convince you of the implications for the state budget or for already empty Slovenian and Slovenian pockets, the right taxpayers, then I really don't know. So much for expenses and money. As far as the deleted ones are concerned, if I mention them, it is simply a written group of cases that are so different from each other that they are thrown into one package, into one basket, not possible, because it would actually cause additional injustices. I therefore believe that the matter should be handled selectively, from case to case. Look at what we find in this society: some aggressors, some traitors, if I say so harshly, there are some speculators, there are some people who may have taken things seriously out of ignorance out of ignorance. There are some that were excusedly absent, such as those that were not in Slovenia at the time. I don't know, there's such a written society here that I think without a selective approach to solving cases there's actually going to be additional injustices. As for the decisions themselves and certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, we do not want to waste words and time here in the Slovenian National Party, because the activities and decisions of the Constitutional Court in the near past point to the politicisation of its decision on polarisation of political beliefs that I do not say anything else, which sometimes also proves the result of the vote, with a very narrow outcome, let's say 5:4. Unfortunately, the decision is already in advance. The possible enforcement of the law quoted will in fact be absurd and will be the stupidest act of the ruling coalition at this time of their rule. At the same time, sadly, it builds a worthy mockery of the Slovenian nation, of all the veterans of the self-sustaining war, of all those who have suffered anything and anywhere and even died so that today we can live alone and free. At the same time, we take away the rights of these veterans, or from the title of how they have now withdrawn the "short" for those social supplements - the question of the Member States has also been asked, and there are no answers, no more worries about them - about health insurance supplements, not to mention where they are deprived. That's not right. So that we can sit here today and talk, someone had to fight this before, and now making fun of these people is really immoral. Preventing the constitutionally guaranteed right of decision-making at the referendum, i.e. to submit such important questions to the Slovenian people in decision-making, constitutes an unreasonable violation of the rights of Slovenes and Slovenes, not to say any more serious national betrayal. We therefore once again call on honourable Members and Members to support our request for a proposed referendum. We will not support the proposed decision of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Respectable. Today, we do not treat the law in the fourth reading as it would have been, and it is heard from many presentations. As if the law could be amended at this stage, as if it could still be dealt with in Parliament and possibly rejected. No, no, no. Today we are deciding on the request of Members and Members to ask certain questions before the invitation of the referendum to the Constitutional Court, and we also expect answers from it to ensure that any unconstitutional consequences are prevented, which in our opinion would certainly have arisen if the law were not adopted at the referendum. There's no point in talking about all the other circumstances with the referendums. Perhaps it is precisely because many things have been said here and because of the public today that are not true; also how they are regulated in this law and what the proponents want, or what we want to do, those we have adopted on the basis of the Government's proposal. After 18 years, the time has come for the State of the Republic of Slovenia to correct injustices, to correct things that should not have happened. The eyewitnesses who were already rejected were already rejected on the commission of inquiry yesterday. Many times in public, some of you are among 25. 6. In 1991 and February 1992, they did not want to regulate their status. The claim is not correct, it is misleading. No one had to sign up in any way in the administrative unit or in the municipalities of the day to settle a status. This was in itself clear and at the time we had a specific arrangement in the common country and I will not repeat it. To claim that today we are enacting a law that can be obtained on this basis or that the law itself regulates compensation for those who have this status regulated for that period. This law does not regulate compensation, it may be the basis for any other procedure to regulate things in a different way. So we're not talking about compensation, and they're not going to be here. To those citizens, we do not grant citizenship by this law, in any case, to foreigners who could also regulate their citizenship status in one way or another. There are things to take [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u22	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u23	I don't care. Keep going. [[....]] Please Mr Jerovšek, Mr Majhenič, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u24	Today's time is ripe, and I believe that both Members and Members of the Slovenian public do not care that at this time the recommendations of international organisations are still being found and similar that it is high time - and we have gladly accepted the last United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, where we were in some way commended that we are in the final stage of resolving this issue and that is what counts in the 21st century. So you do what you do, especially if you're in the National Assembly, if you're in the Government, which is in terms of development, strengthening human rights is the only thing acceptable. In this case, unfortunately, some things have been rectified and we will support, namely, the Members of the Liberal Democracy, so that before the requirement can be met, the possibility can be created to have severe or irreparable consequences for the State of the Republic of Slovenia, so that the Constitutional Court can make this clear. We are convinced that the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the past and some other warnings make it more clear that we can reasonably expect that the referendum will not be possible and that this chapter will also be definitively closed in Slovenia, in Parliament and in institutions that will carry it out later. We will support the proposal for a decision to put a request before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Messengers and Members! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is in decision 9. 11. 2009 stated: "Until the legislator responds to the finding of unconstitutionality, this breach lasts." And the violation adopted on 8 March by the proposal for a law on the regulation of the status of citizens and citizens of other countries of the former Yugoslavia could remove one of the longest standings. Unfortunately, only in its work could it rise above the situation and above the injustice that was done to the good work of citizens and citizens or residents and residents in 1991, as the National Assembly adopted the law by a majority, and the Council of State did not require re-confirmation, but part of the members and members of the National Assembly requested a call for a subsequent legislative referendum. It is a well-known fact that the legislative regulation of the legislative referendum is such that it allows only the implementation of the referendum on the whole text of the law. That is why it is difficult for Social Democrats to accept excuses or some distant statements, since there is probably a good part of those who have been wronged among the deleted, because when they call for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum, they are completely distancing themselves from this distinction. In its opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly wrote down the following: "In our opinion, the adopted amendment of the law eliminates constitutional contradictions in a constitutional manner" - now part of the text is omitted - "and in a particular case, it is possible to determine the possibility of a non-constitutional legal effect by rejecting the amendment in the referendum, the unconstitutionality of the current regulation of the special situation of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia would continue." This is therefore a legal document which gives exactly four coalition groups which have submitted a request or a proposal for decisions, which we today decide to ask the Constitutional Court whether, by suspending the application or possibly rejecting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Nationals of Other Successor States of the former SFRY in the Republic of Slovenia due to the required legislative referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. That's right. He claims that in 2004 a referendum has already been held, and all those who refer to the demands of the rule of law and respect for human rights, we have probably sobered up with what happens if politics leaves a delicate issue concerning human rights to the majority who do not feel empathetic about this minority; but that they do not feel it is in many ways that politics is to blame. Let us not forget that the Council of Europe is from the Commissioner for Human Rights [[ECHR]] There has been a reminder of how policy is responsible for not spreading hate speech among people from the point of view of political speech. And I leave every kind person's judgment to whether it is not possible to label a group of people in general - according to recent findings it is 27,000 and a few people - with speculators, even with invaders and anything else, whether it is stigmatization and hate speech to this group of people. So let me say once again, despite the fact that the vast majority knows what the law is actually about to be adopted, what the law is about to bring about on 8 March. I hope that this will also help in the debate to give up "so-called" some kind of nickname. The law introduces the term "deleted from the register of permanent population". It may be a trifle for someone, but for those who claimed that there was no deletion at all, the possibility of manipulation is eliminated. The fact is that it does not claim that they were only transferred to the records of foreigners because it was found that there were no such records at the Ministry of the Interior for this category of population at the time. At the same time, at least twice today, it has been said that there was no special need or legal basis for entering such a register. The second thing this law regulates: it eliminates the identified shortcomings which have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the law and in the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of April 2003, on the basis of which supplementary decisions have been issued to certain beneficiaries. Third time. The law also regulates the granting of permits for the permanent residence of children who were born in the Republic of Slovenia after 26. 6. 1991. Their status is directly linked to the status of parents. And if not for another reason, we should therefore support the law because it is a grave violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child if we are to prevent the application of this provision. The law regulates the issue of specific decisions for nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who were nationals of other republics when the Republic of Slovenia became independent and had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and because they ceased to be subject to the provisions of the Aliens Act and were later admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and were not previously granted a permanent residence permit. The criteria for determining whether the conditions of actual life are met in the Republic of Slovenia and whose absences from the Republic of Slovenia do not terminate the conditions of real life. A new deadline is also set for the submission of applications for permanent residence permits and so on. What needs to be highlighted here is that it is inaccuracies - and not to say maliciously - to instigate or overlook the provision that those who are in criminal proceedings or who have been proven guilty of humanity in criminal proceedings cannot obtain such permission. Let me say that since 1999, therefore, those who have been working closely on this issue have found that 9 decisions have been issued by the Constitutional Court to point out the unconstitutional situation. And regardless of why some citizens, in particular, did not get citizenship at the time and therefore became a foreigner in Slovenia, Slovenia should not take the status of a permanent citizen of Slovenia and of the rights attached to it. And it must also be said that the 2003 Constitutional Court ruling wronged those who lost the status of permanent resident, that this injustice had been committed to all those who had been erased. This law, which is intended to be the subject of a constitutional assessment or a referendum judgment, will restore or correct this injustice to those who apply, is therefore a distinct individual treatment which will receive these requests positively resolved and which, after a favourable resolution, will indeed settle in Slovenia in one year. And no compensation, no nebulosis that can be heard all the time so that intolerance to this group of people who have been wronged can only be strengthened. The Group of Social Democrats therefore believes that the proposed decision must be supported and that it is unacceptable for citizens and citizens of Slovenia to be held accountable for such an important issue as the protection of the human rights of the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Rudof Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. So let me just start off by saying that the referendum has to be. The referendum must be so that citizens and citizens can decide. In order for them to decide, however, they need to know exactly what lies ahead, since otherwise it is difficult for them to make decisions. I have before me a copy of an article in legal practice. Legal practice isn't some yellow paper, but it's a serious thing, and it's got a date of 18. 3. 2010 It's today. And among other things, of course, the author is excited about this law and admits that there is still something missing in this law. But he writes: "In practice, there have been problems in proving the facts of expulsion, about actual stay in Slovenia so far, which will not otherwise be reduced by the new law. The problem is deleted also because those who do not live in Slovenia because of expulsion or rejection at the border," he said, will also be able to obtain those who have been expelled. "The procedures must lead from abroad, they will face high translation costs, evidence and administrative fees, and they will also have to come from abroad for hearings before the administrative authority. This fact will somehow be facilitated for the citizens of those countries for which the visa to join EU Member States is no longer signed." So now we know why some have so taken up the visa that they have been removed. In addition, we can now conclude why 7,000 deleted are nowhere to be found. Because she's not here because they live somewhere else, and maybe they don't even know they're going to be wiped out. But what a headache, this article, which is correctly written, seems to me to be, is this: "The law also does not provide for measures on other issues," and then, such as the issues of lost contributions to pensions, lost years of working and retirement, lost opportunities to continue schooling and well-read or destroyed health, which is due to mental and physical difficulties in living, or untold injuries, untreated injuries and diseases. The questions of formal justification for the independent investigation of the measure and the findings of responsibility for the deletion also remain unaddressed." It's all in front of us. All of this is ahead of us, and that's why this law lays the groundwork. That's way ahead of us. I will read to you once again what is ahead of us, what this law provides the basis for: the question of lost contributions to pensions, to working hours, to retirement periods, lost opportunities to continue schooling, and to mental and physical difficulties of life, because they had deleted status. That's way ahead of us. And this law lays the groundwork. And now allow me, and these people will be able to sue for a mental condition, because they've been erased, and they haven't had a working age, and I don't know what they're all about. I'm curious, but I haven't noticed anywhere that these 100,000 unemployed people would be concerned about the mental state of their lives and the rights of their children. We talk so much about children's rights. What about the child's rights to these 100,000 unemployed people who won't be able to sue the country? They'll be easy. They'll be easy. Yeah, what kind of legal state are we? Thus, locals, working citizens, their children do not have the right to sue the country. Those who do not live here at all and will be able to lead the process from abroad to obtain citizenship, but will be able to sue the country for all of this. Whoa! That's what people need to be told. And something else that seems very important to me. I have not noticed that any of the representatives of the parties who advocate this would say that if the number of unemployed were to increase by just over a hundred thousand, someone would step out of the coalition. But I heard that if we don't replace one Attorney General, then someone will step out of the coalition. That means what 100,000 unemployed, their rights, their children's rights are nothing. No one's getting out of the coalition. But if we don't replace someone who doesn't suit you, someone will step out of the coalition. And all that still awaits us, says this article. Allow me to read to you again what lies ahead when we adopt this law. These, so-called deleted, will be able to challenge the issue through lawsuits and sue the country for the issue of lost contributions to pensions, lost years of working age, pension periods, lost opportunities to continue their children's school and psychologically, physically, and so on. They should even apologize! It's all in front of us. It says here. We'll even have to apologize to them! You imagine someone who didn't have the status of a citizen, and he arranged it, he won't be able to do anything, he won't be able to do anything, he won't do anything, he won't do anything, because he's got the status of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, and he'll be able to sue the country for all of this. Although I do not know what this will look like, how they will set working hours, because that citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who is unemployed, has no opportunity to sue the country because he is unemployed, and you will obviously be able, because this is before us, this is what the lady who is doing a doctorate writes in this article. It is published in Legal Practice. As I said, legal practice is not a yellow newspaper. This is a serious matter. All of this is ahead of us, and that means the adoption of this law. This means this acceptance. It is therefore necessary to go to a referendum to decide whether people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are right or wrong. Are we really citizens of the first category and second category? Those who regularly pay and arrange everything as it is necessary to become citizens will not have any rights, those who do not want it, but will be able to sue the country for whatever comes to mind. Read this article: This is before us. And this will have to be shared with all citizens and citizens and tell them what this law means. This marriage really does not mean that, but it is the basis for all of this to be done. As it is correctly written here - it is all before us. That is why I say that there must be a referendum, but people need to be seriously told what awaits them if such a law is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I wonder how much this debate today has brought about to reduce the number of unemployed and to increase the number of jobs, perhaps even to start using European funds. Probably by the coalition, it's huge that the country will go on and on and on and on and on as it's already done. I am in favour of the referendum, and at the same time with this referendum, I would also propose parliamentary elections and have citizens and citizens decide whether they want to cut off these "bulmastifs" or whether they want to continue doing so. That's why I'm talking about it. All of this has actually been happening since 2003, when the then Minister of the Interior is of the SD type, I think he obviously knew mathematics a little better than after seven years of LDS. After all, he lost during the time of the then coalition from 35 to 5, which is a loss of 7 times, but now he also increases the number by 7 times, approximately, Minister, which apparently no one in Slovenia can explain anymore. To be very clear, I will quote the explanation of then Minister Bohinc in 2003: "There are various numbers in the public, 40, 80 or even 130 thousand deleted. All these numbers are exaggerated." So I quote Minister Bohinc: "The Ministry of the Interior notes that in 1992 over 28,000 people were deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations and that about 10,000 left Slovenia." So 28 minus 10 is 18 grand. Of these, 18,000 is about 7,000 of those who have acquired citizenship. Thus, those who have acquired citizenship have also been able to regulate their citizenship status as permanent residents. What do you want now? Aya, ever since they've won and reordered their status? But they still want that difference - I don't know what. I mean, insane! These are the citizens and citizens of this country who have already told you that you will not and cannot do this again. Why the back? What's this country's fault for backing up? Who gave the hate speech to this country? Yes, those whom the state has called, so to speak, asked for a good day, come, sign up, permanent residence, citizenship, see, all available. But they said no. You know why not? Because they were manipulating. Because they thought this country, my country, would even declare my Slovenia an invader. Those who were the invaders in this country! Seven thousand of them won and later decided, they found that mine, the picolina, in this Slovenia is beautiful and they followed procedures, a few different procedures, the possibility of acquiring citizenship and they did so. And they're our fellow citizens, and they're very comfortable with us. Even some of these, you know, because we know each other, we're small, they warn us that what we're doing now is unacceptable to them. Unacceptable. So 7 thousand who have acquired citizenship and 4 thousand 800 who have been granted a permanent or temporary residence permit, but not for a return. So about a thousand people were granted permission on the basis of so - called reliefs, while some 4,000 200 people did not have any status. Who among these 4,200 who haven't settled? Next, the minister says that among the 18,000 persons who were deleted from the register of permanent residents of Slovenia in 1992, who did not check out of their residence, there were only about 1,500 persons who were employed in JLA and among them only a small part of the Yugoslav army. This means that, among the 4,200 who did not want to do so or for another reason, they did not arrange it, and they made a different decision. Among them are those in JLA, or Yugoslav army officers. Normally, if we drove them out of here, driven them out as aggressors, and if they believed in that Yugoslav army and that Yugoslavia, they went with that one. And it's fair. So the captain stays on board if he tries to save her and everything else, but if the ship sinks, he sinks with her, if the captain is responsible. What you are now pursuing in this country is totally unacceptable to me and to the citizens and citizens of this country who have long said they do not allow it. Even at the Slovenian People's Party in 2003, when I was not even here, they demanded and wanted to resolve this problem as agreed in the then coalition. In the then coalition, it was agreed that they would have a so-called technical law and a law that would take into account the individual treatment of these 4,200 people and, of course, the determination of the actual situation. And clearly, the arrogance of the then coalition, the majority work, of course, the great coalition did not allow it. Well, that's what the smaller parts of the coalition are doing today, so I'm not surprised by today's financial outcome, which says, "The economy needs as little uncertainty as possible, and the Pahor government is synonymous with uncertainty." And then in Finance, they say that although Pahor was a little on hand, little has helped all of his coalition parties to come to Parliament if the elections were today, only with difficulty. I don't care, because I know why you're doing this, and obviously I'd give you some 25,000 given some citizenship, and that's probably what we'd do last night, like we heard from the investigator, "If you want to work in our congregation, then you'll be sponsoring." Or you'd say, "If you want citizenship, then you'll vote for LDS." However, it would probably be enough to bring you back to Parliament, given that here in Finance they say that you would probably be out of Parliament if there were elections today. However, from the government's large party, Pahor's SD parties, I would expect to read the second and third states of Finance, where they say that the main finances are in Pahor's hands and here the economists are alerting us to what is happening here in the opposition all the time, in fact even last year. These financiers also speak or say that little entrepreneurship needs to be accelerated. They say that major investment reliefs need to be released, that European funds need to be substantially simplified. We have discussed what is happening with regard to the drawing-up of European funds in this Parliament. Today we receive from SVLR that some of the projects that continue from previous projects were formerly European projects or regional projects, but today we do not understand that as mayor, even it says, [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Mr. Pukšič, return to the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u32	That's right. I am not just talking about irrelevant topics, but I am also talking about economic issues. And that's exactly what you should be interested in in the SD if they're not interested in LDS. There is no reason to send this to the Constitutional Court, but people need to know clearly and clearly what awaits them. With this or another 30,000 unemployed in this country, and so on, because there will be public finances, these economists say that public finances need to be reduced, one writes even for a billion and a half, and you will increase public finances by at least a billion. This means a disaster for this country. We're in over our heads right now. What you did in 2009 and planned in 2010. Of course, I will not support such a proposal from the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The predecessor may agree with him in one segment, as soon as he pointed out that there is a need for more discussion in the National Assembly, but I also know that it is deleted that this subject too needs to be discussed in order to finally begin to resolve. Because we are also looking at the issue deleted from the point of view of the internal hygiene, hygiene of the country and the enforcement of some high civilisation standards and culture, democracy and democracy, and then we are aware that human rights violations are probably not part of our work and are not part of a young, democratic country. History is our mother's wisdom. And if we looked at the history of the Slovenian state and the events that have happened, then we could learn a lot from this history. All the injustices committed by the State to individuals and groups had to be or would have to be repaid, reimbursed and settled. Finally, the process of denationalisation is on its way to an end. And the nationalisation of property was also the one to which the state had to adopt its position and settle all injustices. Today we can actually be satisfied that most of these problems are solved and placed under the roof. The deletions and injustices that were committed at that time because of the ignorance of our young country and of the political system at that time are certainly the ones that we will have to settle. Sad to say, 18 years of what we're saving is a failure. And like I said, if we had a higher level of culture or civilisation standards in our country, then we would certainly have solved this problem a long time ago. We must be aware that this is an issue that other countries, monitoring and other institutions dealing with human rights violations are also following. And we're not alone here, and we're under the magnifying glass, and they're going to find out how successful we are in solving this problem. We hoped that, with the passing of the law, a decision of the Constitutional Court had recently been adopted and that it would eliminate some minor anomalies concerning this law, the law on the status of citizens of other republics. And we expected to be on the verge of successfully solving the problem deleted, but we made some mistakes. Today, again on the table, we propose that this issue be resolved through a referendum. I will not judge whether the referendum is in place or whether the referendum is necessary or unnecessary. I can judge more precisely what would be right and place, and I will also vote that this problem should continue to be judged by the Constitutional Court, which will determine whether the referendum would have any constitutional consequences for all those we deal with. However, it is often heard that the law is such that it will also equalize those aggressors, invaders, all those who have on them the stains of the years we talk about, that all these compensations will be paid, that all of them will be granted citizenship. Let me say that I trust the legislator to the extent that I know there will be no compensation. I know there won't be any citizenship. But if there are those among them who have stains, i.e. invaders and aggressors, then it seems to me that we can trust our legal order and the constitutional state so much that those who have, and if they have, anything, they will respond in a legal way, as necessary. Once again, if it comes to the Constitutional Court's judgment, then I can personally say that I respect the highest authority of the legal system and see no reason not to define ourselves in the first stage until the Constitutional Court gives its decision and alerts us to any errors or major damage that the referendum might cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. The referendum is a legitimate right. How many referendums there will be, depending not on the opposition, but on the bad decisions made by the coalition. We are representatives of all people, and it would be right to make decisions that are acceptable to all, and not just for each political option. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law is weak and unconstitutional, unacceptable and will have an impact on the budget and not as advocates of the law have advocated and put into the procedure. The law does not exclude individuals who speculated and those who participated in the attack on Slovenia. So I wonder why it is not possible to adopt such a law that is acceptable to everyone, including people who will decide at the referendum and evaluate our work in Parliament. The argument of power is always present, which is bad for the whole country. And putting laws on citizens' scales is bad advertising. There is no need for referendums, as sometimes it would be wiser to invest money in the development of the economy and in opening new jobs. But as I have already said, the referendum is the legitimate right of the opposition to achieve the expected goals and rights, of course under the law of all citizens of Slovenia. Of course, I cannot go beyond what has happened with regard to the referendum on the Committee on Internal Policy. When the result 6:6 was voted, the ruling coalition did not satisfy and pressed on the president, if the count was incorrect. I agree that it's always wrong to make a mistake in life. But when it was in favor of the opposition, you always compared it to a football judge's decision that was always right. The chairman of the committee did not allow surveillance footage to erase the suspicion of irregularities, as I suggested, but put it to the vote again. And you can create your own opinion on this. There has been a repeat vote, which has been absolutely unjustifiable, because here it has indeed pointed to pressure on the President or corruption that the Slovenian National Party wants to hang. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! 25. 6. 1991 The Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Basic Constitutional Charter and, on its basis, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In a very short preliminary statement of the facts which have led the Republic of Slovenia to this act, it also states that the SFRJ does not act as a legally regulated state and seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces. So it's a serious violation of human rights. And when we wrote down the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we defined the Constitutional Court in this Constitution and in the framework of the Constitutional Court's tasks, and in one of the points of view, we wrote that the Constitutional Court ruled on constitutional complaints of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms with individual acts. And if we link this up now, we need to ask ourselves whether the Republic of Slovenia has forgotten why it has adopted the Basic Constitutional Charter, why it has adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, why it has appointed the Constitutional Court as the guardian of constitutionality, legality and the judgement of statutory acts with the Constitution. If she did not forget why she had adopted this constitution, which she also stated in her justification before the decision on 25 June 1991, there should not be such a discussion today that we could witness from a number of Members and Members or Members of the National Assembly. If we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to the power of the Constitutional Court and the power to judge decisions relating to violations of human rights, then it is necessary to ask whether that State respects its decisions regarding violations of human rights. And the Ministry of the Interior, through its proposals for laws and practices, only respects the Constitutional Court's decision that what has been done is unjustly, contrary to the Constitution, the violation of fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms, must be corrected. I don't think we have such a short memory when we can experience feelings and threats when someone can express their opinions in a way that would violate human rights. It is therefore extremely important for the Constitutional Court to rule again whether the expiry of this law, which corrects those wrongs which the Constitutional Court has already expressly ruled that these injustices have occurred, should the Constitutional Court decide whether the failure to enforce this law, which would move away from the exercise of these rights, would again constitute a violation of fundamental human rights and a departure from the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Slovenia. I will therefore support myself the proposal to assess the conformity of the draft law governing the status of deleted persons, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and to have the Constitutional Court decide on this. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I believe in institutions. And it is very important that we report from this assembly to the Slovenes that they should believe in the institutions. It is very difficult to accept the argument that at some points we can tolerate injustices, violations of fundamental human rights, that we do not allow an opportunity where this will be demonstrated in individual cases, that these violations have occurred, that we do not allow someone on the basis of the wrongs committed to to be compensated. If this is to be a message from this assembly, then this communication must be clear to all those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who will be at any time in a dispute and will have conflicts, and they will be wronged. They will prove this injustice, but for this injustice they will only have the right of a servant of Jerne, with whom they will not have anything to do. I think that these are very important messages that we are giving, which must be very wise and carefully thought out. At the time of doubt, it is also fair for the Constitutional Court to decide on these matters. Therefore, I myself will support the conclusion that the Constitutional Court also considers this case, which is on the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I strongly hope that today, for the last time in the National Assembly, we are dealing with the removal of the consequences of the illegal disappearance from the register of the permanent population of citizens of other countries of the former SFRY in the Republic of Slovenia. Also at the cost of having to listen and hear all the ravings today, all the wonders and deliberate deceptions by some opposition Members, which nothing stops them from repeating all these nonsensees and before maintaining and encouraging the hostile mood towards those who have been wiped out. Unfortunately, many do not stop a clear constitutional provision, not a clear decision of the Constitutional Court, nor criticisms and revelations by international institutions and organisations dealing with the protection and consolidation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is amazing, however, that some self-declared constitutional experts and self-proclaimed human rights fighters cannot understand that the deletion was illegal, that in several decisions the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court in different compositions, and that the Constitutional Court has only determined how this decision can be implemented to remedy the unconstitutional situation, to which the legislator was, of course, bound. This was done by the legislator, the National Assembly, when it adopted a corresponding amendment to the Law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, successors of the former SFRJ, in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why it is also unacceptable to present and to carry out a referendum on this novel, since its possible rejection would continue to lead to an unconstitutional situation which, following a decision of the 2003 Constitutional Court, has lasted for a period of seven years. Seven years old! And in this case, they could re-emerge and continue the anti-constitutional effect. It is more than a time to remove this great stain of unconstitutionality, illegality and undemocraticism from the face of our country. And no exotic interpretation of the rule of law in the style of the Ban Republic should deter us from doing so. The principles of the rule of law commit to respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court not only by the legislator but also by the electorate when they exercise these powers directly, on which today there has also been a few speeches, and is subject to a referendum ruling by law to eliminate the unconstitutionality found by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has said this several times, the Constitutional Court in its various compositions. For the Constitutional Court is also bound to respect the principles of the rule of law. This is so simple and so difficult for all those who are not really Democrats and who have respect for human rights only in the language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! It is true that important messages leave this hall today, and important values are at the test, especially the value of patriotism, which was at the test in 1991 when we defended it in the war for independence, the value of the independent Slovenian country, which opposed it, or wanted to prevent it, some of whom the government coalition has tried to be among the privileged Slovenian state from now on. Yesterday, the Committee on Internal Policy dropped its last masks on the issue of what are the objectives of the law. More than serious financial consequences are important opportunities for the fat profits of lawyers that will be generated by the adoption of this law. More than the criterion of actual stay in Slovenia, the interests of some who have acted most against Slovenia at the time of independence are of paramount concern. Some of the beneficiaries are employees of the occupation and the law does not provide for selective treatment to eliminate such. That is why yesterday, the government MP said that the uncivilised occupationist was told by the occupier that it was unethical. Look, not all German officers and those who acted on our territory as invaders were convicted. However, so far no one has protested that they can be called invaders. When it comes to the independent Slovenian state and the ten-day war, when we wanted to avoid it, where it wanted to occupy us permanently, it was unethical and uncivilised. Do you remember the president of the Society of Deleted Mr. Todorovic, who at the time said he didn't want to have anything to do with Slovenia alone because it was an uncivilised country? What a terrible coincidence!? It is no wonder, therefore, that I am not surprised that a Member who is a signatory to the petition for the abolition of the Slovenian Army and for the withdrawal from NATO and a party that is clearly in favour of this, which, as a result, constitutes a threat to the Slovenian State, is likely to delete the Slovenian State in the long term if such a serious policy and more serious people are taken into account, for this is certainly a commitment to the eventual abolition of the Slovenian State, to the collapse of the Slovenian State, that this same Member today says that the applicants are showing a subjugation relationship with the Constitutional Court by means of a proposal for a referendum. Yes, that was today and yesterday, colleague Franco Juri. That this is an evaluation of the Constitutional Court. If something is required on behalf of the constitutional article that has power over the people in Slovenia. But even more irony and cynicism is that this is said by the representative of the party and the options that came from the then LDS, who spoke strictly at the time of the first Constitutional Court, that there was then an opposition party at that Constitutional Court, that it was an exposition of an opposition party. That, however, was the actual devaluation and depreciation of the Constitutional Court. As a result, certain decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court were not publicly recognised. At that time, the Constitutional Court was permanently evaluated. And now the representative of this same option speaks to others in a legitimate request for a referendum, which is in accordance with the Article of the Slovenian Constitution, that he has authority over the people in Slovenia, talks about disrespect, I repeat this, and the evaluation of the Constitutional Court. This same option today exerts incredible political pressure on the Constitutional Court and I believe that this pressure has been subjected to the Constitutional Court when it abolished the moratorium on the demands of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb and after the abolition of this moratorium we already have a court decision, it is not legal that we will be right to pay compensation and interest to the saver in Zagreb. Do you know what billions that means? Although it has been signed and ratified successfully, it has been accepted that these requirements are not being addressed here, but through the Basel bank. And, of course, this is a parallel to what will happen to the enforcement of this law, to these claims for damages, after I do not know what claims and settlement I do not know what wrongs will not be prevented. It will be huge, it will further break the Slovenian state in the financial field. And that must be an unheard-of thing. But in my firm belief, the marriage solution, which, among other things, confers personal rights on certain members of the occupying party, cannot be in accordance with the Constitution. This is also contrary to international conventions. Under natural law, the occupier is not allowed to dictate legal solutions in the territory he wanted to occupy. Now we have a situation where some of the ex-occupiers' ex-occupiers' exposures have reached their ties to the state being placed in such a position. If the constitutional provision still applies to the power of the people in Slovenia, then the referendum is the only legitimate and constitutional way to reject such solutions, which are fundamentally contrary to the Constitution and natural law. This law, not only has it been procedurally mistreated following a rapid procedure, will have serious financial implications. The law is not selective and we do not know how serious the consequences will be in this serious crisis of the country, in the economic and financial crisis, what concessions some of them wish to give or to damage those 170 thousand people and all the other citizens of Slovenia who were then and today loyal citizens of Slovenia. We are and I am in favour of correcting the wrongs of those who have been harmed by their injustices. However, I cannot accept that the employees of the occupation, and those who said that it would be an uncivilised country that did not recognise it, will today be the winners. I am also aware that the Constitutional Court is in a difficult position, because some of the solutions from the period when he was a legal representative, the late legal representative of the deleted, also the Constitutional Judge, Mr Krivic. That's clear. He had a case deleted in the hearing, he was next in line at the Constitutional Court, and he hasn't solved it in years. He waited for a new composition of the Constitutional Court and then submitted it to the Constitutional Court. Literally, he forced himself, using an option of course. On this basis, certain acts were produced and were calculated against Slovenia, against the values of patriotism [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u43	Mr. Jerovšek, mag. The guilt is not here. Be nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u44	We've said this a number of times, and this is the one that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u45	You have said many times, and you have also received a written and oral answer, and you do not believe him. Please, not about people who aren't here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u46	These are the exact things and those who listen to us today should be well informed. For this and such reasons and for the sake of patriotism, it is necessary to have the right solutions that can only be accepted by the people who, I am sure, will reject your attempt to humiliate Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Jerovšek. In 1988, when some of us were together and we were establishing a narrower College of the Committee on Human Rights, by the way, I did not see you then and also later in 1989 at Cankar's House, when we fought for democracy in the Republic of Slovenia, I do not know if you were there, we also fought for every citizen and citizen to be able to sign under all petitions without sanctions or sanctions, nor from such distinguished Members as you Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Thank you for the words of the President, colleagues and colleagues. Today’s discussion of these subjects also gives the impression that there is an epoch or a struggle between good and bad. When that is the case, of course, it is vital that the truth guides it, for we can reason on good and bad, at least for ourselves, perhaps naively, but I explain. That is why I was greatly disturbed and, in fact, also affected by the statement about the request for a referendum under point 5, the last paragraph, where the proponents point to, to people who respect the value of patriotism, that is to say, a very scary hate speech that was given by the current government, which in one of the debates in the National Assembly, when adopting the contested law, brought about an equalization of independence due to the so-called "extermination" - in fact, it was only a transfer between Holocaust records, which is an incomprehensible insult to the Jewish community and to all those who co-created and defended Slovenia in good faith. This debate was my debate, which was as follows: 'Of course it can be said that there was no erasure, as there are people today who claim that the Holocaust was not. These claims are possible and, of course, not true." So I compared the reality of the claim that something existed or did not exist, and I did not say a word about independence. I am convinced that this did not offend the Jewish community, nor at least those who created and defended Slovenia in good faith. 31 of you signed under this. Although I no longer think of my colleague Grims and my colleague Jerovšek as the seeker of truth and that they would really be interested in what someone said. You just hear what you want to hear. And even after a person can warn them of that, they won't change their mind, they won't apologize. I'm used to it. But the other 29 don't know if you really think this about me and my indication that I read it here from the magnetogram - of course I can also check it myself, 8 March it was - then I don't understand how you can sign it under this heading or the reference in this same application under the 8th point, which is milder, I have to admit 'and to the discussions of the rulings that equate the process of independence and the Holocaust'. I am by no means equalizing the process of self-reliance and the Holocaust. I will say this, however, that the deletion was not part of Slovenian independence, but perhaps it was part of Slovenian spring. Slovenian spring and Slovenian independence are not the same. At least not for me. On many points, they coincide, but at the point of deletion they certainly do not. Therefore, it should be said that the material that this law saves is not constitutional matter, so it would also be completely depressed to resolve it by constitutional law. This would, in fact, constitute an insult to the defiance of the Slovenian Constitution, which is good, but would, of course, be greatly underestimated by such an addition. My colleague Germič has also mentioned one of the reasons why this country was created, on what grounds of democratic human rights. That's why it would be good for you to be aware of that. There was a lot about values here today. Clearly, we are very different in what these values of patriotism mean, where this country really is. In all of these debates, I miss just to start talking - sometimes it has been talked about "the processes of the revolution", now of course it will be about the merits of independence and so on. It will be less and less in this hall of those who have personally helped to make it happen in the ten - day war, which has happened to our great joy. And I hope that this will also be appropriate and more rational in the debates, which will understand that of all the events 20 years ago, what will be left will be, in the first place, the Slovenian Constitution and its interpreter, the Constitutional Court. And these will be the values that will remain. Perhaps it is to say, as I mentioned earlier, that the deletion was not, as it might be said, that the Holocaust was gone. Perhaps the deletion is to say transfer from one record to another, as the Holocaust may be called "Endlösung". But the difference is much more than just language. But the difference is of great value. On March 18th, 1414, on this day 596 years ago, our ancestors in the Land of the World were to embody the last Quarantine Duke, with the custom that we hope is known to all. This event also led US President Jefferson to write the American Constitution; it was one of the democratic examples of this. I hope that in these 600 years this nation has not lost the lenientness that it has suffered at that time, that it will also today understand what human rights are and what democracy is, and that the Constitutional Court will judge them as it must, and we will know how to respect that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr President, you were on the committee yesterday, and you know exactly that I have not, by word or by accident, disputed the previous statements of Mr Rožej. I don't think I used the word "delete" at all. But I know who I've been dealing with, what you know well, and we should warn him when he does. But it is misleading, manipulative and trying to discredit, which is what Mr Rozje is always doing. It is particularly unheard of that some who have expertly explained on the Committee that there has been no technical deletion, including Mr Mag. Fatso, the former Secretary of State, and now Mr Rozjej is equal to those who know which world leader is saying that the Holocaust was gone. That's disgusting. And, Mr President, such hate speech towards, say, today, Mr Debelak, we should prevent or remind Mr Rojo. When Mr. Fatty was perfect, perfect in front of the board, you were all looking at the ground. You didn't have one question or one answer. Because he was very expert in explaining what was going on. And I also proposed on the basis of his and Šterov's decision that the administrative officers who were then in the administrative units were acting in accordance with legislation and legitimacy. You have rejected such a decision. Once again, I would like you to press charges, charges against those who, in your opinion, have rejected such a decision to act legitimately and in accordance with the law, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u54	committed crimes. [[...]] Do it!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Mr. Jerovšek! For replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u56	and you will be tried by the Slovenian people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u58	Containing by weight more than 10 % but not more [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Replica time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u60	As Mr. Rozej today [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u61	You've run out. [[...]] Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The question we're dealing with today is very old. In all three mandates since I've been here, we've dealt with him. But I have to say the following over and over again, because many people don't know it - obviously - yet not. The Slovenian Democratic Party has never prevented this issue from being definitively resolved. The Slovenian Democratic Party has never said that the injustices that may have arisen must not be rectified. We have even entered into a marriage twice that would elegantly solve this and correct all injustices. We didn't make it. And even now, dear colleagues, we do not object to the resolution of the matter as requested by the Constitutional Court. But there is always a problem - the diversity of approach. We have always advocated that it is necessary to approach the same as, say, to correct the injustices of victims of war violence, where each person is obliged to initiate the procedure and prove his compensation. And also compensation is limited by law, because the Slovenian nation, the Slovenian budget, does not tolerate the inextricable and endless correction of injustices. He can't stand it. We need to maintain a stable country, as far as we can, probably not in this mandate. And another question is that it really separates us. Not only do you simultaneously resolve the issue in this law, save the ratings and recognise these rights, whether persons are justified or not, or have they done something at the time about respect for the Slovenian laws that demanded the resolution of their status, or have they perhaps experienced a genuine unfair treatment. And even with the number of beneficiaries, I will never believe that it just went from 18,000 overnight to over 25,000. Gentlemen, in 15, 17, 18, out of 18,000 people, at least 4,000 died naturally. This is said to be new people, not 7,000, but 11,000 new ones. Where did they come from? You'll say, yes, these are the children of those who were born in the meantime. Out of 11,000 of these women, perhaps 2,000 were capable of being born. That's what they say. They each had six babies. Don't say it's justified. Here are accounts we don't buy, we don't accept. Why such injustice, such an attitude toward our request for a referendum? See also the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly is obliged to respect and amend it, to arrange it in law. How's that working out? In what way? Either by one word, or by one sentence, or by ten articles, or by that means, it dissipates this solution, or otherwise, this is a matter of the National Assembly. Just one example of your respect for the Constitution. We recently had six provincial laws. The Constitution states: "Slovenia has provinces that carry out duties of wider local importance." This is in the constitution, and you have rejected these laws, so you have acted against the Constitution. And do not say that we are acting against the Constitutional Court, against the Constitution, because we want our decision in the National Assembly to be decided by the people at last. The rejection of the law is nothing unconstitutional but the rejection of the provincial law was not an unconstitutional move. She wasn't. For the National Assembly can resolve the issue of the provinces in another way, as we have proposed. But he'll have to do it once. The rejection of provincial legislation was not unconstitutional. Rejection of this law is also not an unconstitutional act. For we do not speak, we must not be saved, but it must be resolved differently, more nationally, more honestly, to all those who live, and also to all foreigners, then foreigners who have adopted Slovenian legislation that have taken care of and gone for those 500 tolars or how much in five minutes to solve their problem to the administrative unit. And they saved him, and then maybe they beat unemployment, low wages, minimum wages all the time, but now someone else who's been absent who's been faking these laws will get, believe me, soon for all social support back, with interest. I remember when some of them were leaving Slovenia when I was in the infirmary and I must say, I also had good relations with JLA officers at Vrhnika. We were friends. There was nothing hostile between us. When I convinced one of them that his family should stay in Slovenia, let him not go, let him not go, why, let him stay in that military apartment, and he said, "Well, Doctor, we'll go back!" Yeah, they're really coming back. They're really coming back. At the very least, they knew what they had to do, they knew. I feel sorry for this family, who then fled to Krajina and then to Belgrade. And here they came back and asked if there was anything they could do to help. And they beat up poverty. I feel sorry for this family. It's just not Slovenia's fault. We don't have to repay the damage. What did we do if they didn't want to, if they were afraid of propaganda or JLA or Kos, they didn't get their status. It's not our fault. It's not Slovenia's fault, gentlemen. Let those who were persuaded to prevent them, who threatened them, if they were to save their status or accept Slovenian citizenship, return the damage to them. I don't mind if they come back and accept citizenship, that's fine. Let them come. However, it is not that we will do what Kos did, which JLA has blamed, because under pressure they may have rejected or ignored Slovenian legislation in order to make Slovenia pay for the damage. And once again, if the Constitutional Court were to be unfair, you would be unfair to say that there would be constitutional inconsistencies or an unconstitutional situation if this law were not adopted. The provincial law has not been passed, nor has it been adopted, gentlemen, it is your fault, and we do not accuse you of hoping that you will resolve it in another way. I hope that the Constitutional Court will also be aware that this issue is not resolved, that it can be resolved in another way - the National Assembly has never said that we do not want to solve it - and that it must respect the basic article of democracy that is in the constitution, namely, the power of the people. He has the right of the people to decide the solution you have proposed. I hope that the Constitutional Court will, however, be able to decide less politically than in similar cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start with one, I think very fair, a comparison that I hope coalition colleagues will listen to. I hope that 90 Members and Members of Parliament are convinced that Slovenia is right when it claims that the Gulf of Piran is comprehensive and Slovenian. We all agree, but you gave the third person the opportunity to decide what we believe. And now I'm only comparing it to today. Most people believe that this law is just and good. Okay. But give it the same judgment and decision to the third, not to the third, but to the people. That would be fair. I'm sure that's fair. Another time. I always hope and believe that we are elected by the people and that, for as much as we can, we express their opinions and help, as much as we can, those people who have chosen us. If the majority, 48 Members, decided on behalf of the people at the time of the adoption of the said law, 48% of the people in the referendum would say, "Not to abolish the law, the law is good." However, if most people at the referendum say, "No, this law is not good," that means two, whether the marriage is actually bad, whether it can happen in this household, or whether those who were in favour of this law did not respect the will of the people. I don't see anything wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with the status. I have many friends who are not from the Slovenians, they are from all countries of the former Yugoslavia, I have many, acquaintances, I will say, comrades, friends are rare at all, I don't know any, who doesn't have the irregular status that he arranged right in 1990 and later or he arranged it much later. I also believe that there are some people who have really been wronged in this area. And these people need to know from person to person, to tell them that we apologize for the wrong that has been done and should be corrected. You know, we all know that if we officially admit that we have wronged someone, then the logical consequence is that this injustice is to be repaid. When about 27,000 people were to be wronged, they were not only wronged, as far as permanent residence is concerned, these 27,000 people then had no social rights, no health rights, and, last but not least, the right to work and many others were to be violated. And if I were among them, and if you would admit to me that you have done wrong, but in your heart and in the main, you think exactly the same as me, yes, of course I will also demand the correction of this injustice in the area of the settlement of everything, all the costs that I have had at this time in the field of social, health, in the field of the exploitation of kindergartens, schools and so on. It's illusory to say it isn't. That's right. That's why it's a request for a referendum. Not because of the words I've heard: unacceptable, insidious, weird, stupid, and so on. I've heard that from those who say we have a constant hate speech. We have a hate speech and you're smart. But you use exactly the same words, colleagues and colleagues. Same words as us. Your words are smart and reasonable, and ours is hate speech. This proves that we basically do not want to do something in favour of the third. Basically it's right here in here. K. Corralu" where one side shoots the other, both in and out of touch. Your colleague from SD told me nicely today, it's strange that every individual is such a nice person, and we can all be ashamed of what we are. And he said the most beautiful sentence I've ever heard. Everyone can have their own color. But we all have to watch one beautiful rainbow of different colors together. And I add to this, to this beautiful one: colleagues and colleagues, but this rainbow isn't just red or black or white, but it's made up of multiple colors. That's right. If people say this marriage is fair, it should be valid. If people say they're not, they'll have to take another. And even the correction of the coalition side, when I heard that the people were also bound by the Constitutional Court, that even the people should not say anything else and do so if the Constitutional Court said so. You're making a big mistake here. For the Constitutional Court did not appoint men, but the people set up the Constitutional Court. Thank God we have a referendum as the only form where I can hope that people will say in a calm way what they should say to me on their behalf. And if we don't know, and we don't want people to do it. It would be right and fair to call the referendum "yes" to this law or "no" to this law. If they say yes, you'll win, and you'll confirm that you're right. If they say 'no' it means that something is wrong and a different law will have to be passed - which today would have been adopted and would not have been adopted and there would have been no requirement for a referendum if some of the elements included in the amendments in the debate on this law had been adopted in good faith. For example, in one of the articles, this law would make it clear that it is a matter of correcting injustices in the moral and formal field, but that it excludes any financial correction of injustices. And I'm sure this story would be just before the present, if it wasn't over, without today's session. In short, I'll say it again, I hope we all love Slovenia and we're sure that the Bay of Piranhas is ours, but we said "thirds should decide," nevertheless. And I hope that you are sure that this law is good, yet tell the third to decide and confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Today there is a lot of talk about injustice and justice. Guilt always seeks justice, but the question is when and how many times it finds it. I myself agree that those who have been erased must be compensated for their injustice, including financially, for all that has happened, but of course the question is, to whom and how much. Rewarding those who have caused great injustices to others is certainly not fair, which is probably something that we all agree with. On this subject, we can also recall the questions of denationalisation and, in this regard, the issues of injustice, guilt, and the payment of these injustices. Soon after the war, the Communist authorities took property, including life, from these people. And when we started talking about denationalisation, a lot of people on the other side said, "Yes, denationalization - yes, the correction of injustices - yes, but we must not do other wrongs with it." So, return the property, pay compensation to all those who have been wronged. However, those who then cooperated with the occupying party, who had already received any compensation that did not have a regulated citizenship, could not participate in the question of denationalisation, and so it is. So denationalisation, which is still ongoing today, has been dealt with from case to case. And maybe here we can pull some analogy with the question deleted. They should also go from case to case to case in order not to cause any new injustices, injustices to others; these are those who have obtained all the necessary documents within a certain period of time that have gained their status. And on the other hand, those who, for example, were on the side of Slovenian police or territorial defence were at war in Holmac or in Dravograd. I think you will agree that it is wrong to get the status of someone who has been erased in Dravograd on the Maribor Road demolished the apartment and symbolically launched the bullet through the collected works of Ivan Cankar. Then he withdrew to Serbia for a few years, came back to Slovenia, and today he has a status deleted. On the other hand, in Slovenia, with some high social status, we made people with material prosperity and social reputation, who in the middle of the 1990s were very involved in the Vič-Holmec affair. Remember, that's when Slovenian police officers and territorialists were declared war criminals. And I don't think anyone's ever apologized before, nobody's adopted any marriages. Calling someone a war criminal or a murderer is, of course, a very serious accusation, without a later apology and in the function of some very low profile political games. We also have a case of people who ended up shooting at our officers and soldiers. In the end, two police officers died, and today these people have declared themselves deleted and our society has raised them to a symbolic level of human rights protection or human rights violations. And I must say, the Koros are pretty bitter about it. We already have cases in Koroška when the charges are being filed, those who have never complied with Slovenian legislation before their own disappearance and after their deletion. And, of course, the court will certainly please them. In the opening remarks we heard something about the comparison of the Slovenian minority in Italy, in Austria's Koroška and the comparison between the deleted and the minority. This comparison, I think, is quite difficult. We have counted the deleted in Slovenia several times, and we have achieved many different results. Deleted in Slovenia we count one deleted plus one deleted plus one deleted plus one deleted plus one deleted and so on, to stop somewhere at number 26.000. Nationalist rightist forces in Koroškem consider the Slovenian minority quite different, once Slovenian, once Slovenian once Slovenian once Slovenian is one Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will support the Committee's proposal because it is high time for the Constitutional Court's decision to be implemented and to remedy the unconstitutional situation as regards the deleted. In doing so, I am convinced that insistence on not getting rid of this matter is dangerous because a similar fate could befall any one of us who disagrees with the initiators of the referendum if we regain power and use a similar way to reduce the democratic and human rights of everyone who is not ours and who wants to declare him an enemy within the division in Slovenia. If the candidates of the referendum have the names of fraudsters, fraudsters, criminals, aggressors who have committed crimes and crimes - day after day with them! I myself am prepared to report them to the investigating judges and law enforcement authorities, so that those who have done so will not suffer 5,000 children, more than 8,000 women within the deleted and all the others, who certainly do not have these sins. Generalisation is the fabric of an act, it is a scourge that does not belong to democratic conduct, to the democratic treatment of this law, which is not to blame. To give the law to the people you're talking about in judgment is a complete manipulation. Most people who would come to the referendum would not read the law at all and then decide on that pattern of truth, as advertised by the proponents, who repeat it over and over again, that it is the law that will reward the aggressors, the criminals, the impostors and so on. None of those deleted were obliged to regulate their status. As a result, this evidence makes it completely false for these people to be guilty of something they do not have, and for some punishment for years to suffer injustice after the deprivation of basic human rights. Of course, it is nice to hear the debater who said that if he were alone in the fact that I had been wronged by the State, he would have expected and demanded to be corrected. Interestingly, then, the same discusser finds that those who have done so are too large and that the cost would be too great if they, as a crowd, were to come to terms with their demands for the material compensation of the injustices that have been done to them. This is an unthinkable and gravely problematic position that I will never agree with. The problem is also that, at all costs, the applicants, even by referendum, want to break the law applying the Constitutional Court decision. This is further evidence that the applicants do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court even when an act manifestly violates human rights and are surprised to suggest that the Constitutional Court would say the last word whether the proposal for a referendum is at all possible and justified and justified or not. I am firmly convinced that the Constitutional Court will decide that such a referendum cannot be carried out, because in the same way it could be asked in a referendum whether all citizens are in order to have the same salary as employees or all the same pension and so on. It is clear that the populism intention to give people the last word on how to regulate things would appear absurd, to a totally unacceptable state not only of the spirit, but also of the developments in the country to which I oppose and will never agree. I am sure that the Constitutional Court will decide, as we have proposed, by itself among the signatories to the proposal to refer this to the Constitutional Court, only because I have not been listed here physically, so that I could be able to sign this proposal, which is more than necessary in order to prevent a referendum, which last but not least costs something, and the proponents have the full mouth of giving such money to people for bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u71	But procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Yeah. I call on you to remind the speaker of the serious insult to Slovenian voters and Slovenian citizens. For he said: To give marriage to those who have been erased to a referendum is perfect and severe manipulation, for most would not understand it. To offend Slovenian citizens and voters so much that they are incompetent, in this assembly and in this room, I do not think that they are allowed. But I wonder what [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Your debate is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u74	I call on you to ask if then the Slovenian government coalition has decided to waste access to the international sea by manipulation, with an arbitration agreement that says it will give it to the referendum? [[....]] [[...]] But it's fictitious. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u75	Mr Jerovšek, you did not have a procedural proposal and you abused the powers you have as a Member. Allow notice, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDS Group has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a decision in the course of our work. I inform you that this amendment is not prepared in accordance with the contents of the amendments, because it completely changes the text of the draft decision or its meaning, which was created yesterday by the working body of the mother. According to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, it is possible to propose or require the Constitutional Court to assess whether the referendum could have anti-constitutional consequences. The SDS proposal is that the Constitutional Court find that there would be no unconstitutional consequences with the implementation of the referendum. This is logical nonsense and the content of such an amendment is not in line with the role the amendment has. The National Assembly cannot require this, but the Constitutional Court, if it finds that the referendum is carried out and there is no reason to prohibit it, will then follow your request because it will find that there will be no unconstitutional situation with the referendum carried out. As a result of this amendment, I will not divide and put to the vote. Of course, each of us can vote in favour of or against the proposal by voting in favour of the decision to send the matter to the Constitutional Court or not. Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. A long time ago, a great mountain of paper was described on these subjects, and we were given a law to settle matters. He will arrange for the majority of those who have been harmed only to restore their status, if not all that they have been harmed for. We separate the grain from the weeds, we know that there were also speculators among them, that there were also enemies and those who acted against our new republic, but we must act by looking at those who were injured, at those fates of the smallest people who did not know what they were going into, who did not know what could cause the transition to the new country. The procedures around citizenship were clear and transparent. Precisely - hands, how and what to do. The second question was the question of permanent residence. Most of these were convinced that this was part of the rights that had been imposed and remained for the people. No one knew, I'm talking about most, he didn't know about these consequences, he didn't know about the transfer, he didn't know about the so-called transfer of one record to another, he didn't know about the consequences, because otherwise we would have acted differently. And today we are correcting this mistake to allow these people to recover what they lost because of inappropriate procedures, because of unclear, untransparent, perhaps even illegal procedures. Let us be aware that these were humans, and let us treat them humanly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. At the time of this Act, it was announced that it would be decided again in the Constitutional Court, on a referendum, and thus, of course, through the Institute of the Constitutional Court, to prevent people from deciding. However, it is known that power, government - and this flies on you, coalition, government. Those who fear their people who fear the decisions of their people do not really deserve to rule these people. It's been shown for the third time today. The third law, which the Constitutional Court will attempt to reject, is that only the people decide on important things for people. Why are you afraid we're deciding on these things at the referendum? I believe that it is people who believe and know what this Slovenia deserves and also what must be done with those who have actually had some injustice in the past. If it were true for all of you in the coalition and for the government to correct injustices, some of us believe that they have been done, why you did not adopt the constitutional law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have always been human rights advocates, and we have always tried to prepare such solutions, and of course you have rejected them. And that's how it is today. And with this law, which you are now trying to prevent through the Constitutional Court, we will deal with it at the referendum, you will do Slovenia irreparable damage. Today, in her presentation, the Minister mentioned or declared that we were closing a painful chapter. That's not true! We are opening a painful chapter for the relatives of those who gave their lives to make Slovenia their own. We are opening a painful chapter for those who fought for Slovenia, and we are finally opening a painful chapter for those who were in Slovenia from other republics, and they have done what the legislation has commanded them, and as it has commanded the then government to regulate their status. How many people are going to play with this law? Hundreds of thousands! Why are you deceiving the public that there will be no compensation? You all know that, through this law, it will not be possible to impose compensation, but the consequences of this law, once the status, all that will be settled, will be the legal basis for compensation that will go into millions and millions of euros at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. You all know that, but you don't realize it, or you don't want the public to know it, and at all costs, you're just trying, as has been said, to look for new and new voters. In particular, it is worrying to me that, just yesterday, when the Minister of Investigation was in charge of the investigation committee, there was a miraculous increase in the number of persons erased from 18,000 to 25,000. And her statement that this is due to the exchange or upgrade of the information system can be extremely worrying for each of us. Anyone who is familiar with information systems is well aware that a replacement or upgrade must in no case have the effect of any data being lost, but do not let it go wrong. And here this statement is very disturbing, and above all it gives everyone the impression that the other information that has been associated with this information system is no longer what it should be. Are there many other areas now depraved? I am afraid that this number added so-called deleted is due to those because I have information from someone who was at the time when these events in Slovenia were also taking place, one of those who was ordered by the administrative unit, but was at the time in the police service, ordered by the administrative unit, that they had to look for or verify for certain people whether they were here or what their status was. And it was for a large number of such people on the part of the police after returning information to administrative units or relevant institutions that they were unwanted and unable to obtain status, but unfortunately, after so many years now, we are meeting with these people who have been so characterised that they are undesirable because they were actually against Slovenia, against independence, we are now in Slovenia. I'm afraid there's a lot of these, if not these 7,000, just because you're putting them on that list. I hope that the Commission of Inquiry, which is investigating this area, will also try to get to the bottom of this. I hope that the Slovenian public will learn what it has the right to know. Therefore, in no case will I support today's conclusion that this requirement is for a referendum to be judged by the Constitutional Court. There's no need. I trust the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I would like to say here in this Chamber that the problems are not in dealing with the consequences, even though we are facing them. The problem is in the basic act, the cause, it's erased. Today you teach us that this action was done with good intentions, that all those who wanted it had this opportunity, and that except for rare indeed injustices, everything was just as it had to be. That they had the opportunity to obtain citizenship is true, but this is not about citizenship. It's about you wiping people out like aliens from a permanent residence. So these people are not expected to want citizenship at all costs. However, it was wrong and it was illegal for them to be deprived of the status of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence. Of course, it is not possible to agree to this logic that this is just the first step, permanent residence, towards citizenship. It's easy, but it can't. Someone could have wanted to stay a foreigner in this country and live a few in Slovenia, foreigners. And as a result, of course, we come up with damages that will be shared just like that, without proving in court. All those who have been given decisions, all those who have the right under this law will receive compensation. They've got nothing so far! No compensation. You can nod, you can nod, no compensation was paid. No judgment was legally binding. You're talking about agreeing with the Constitutional Court that it's right to get rid of the adoption of the law, but not with that, with one fairer one, on your own standards. Of course, there is a duality here, because there is also a constitutional court installed here, and the Constitutional Court has ordered the legislator to correct this error and has prescribed a deadline. This is, however, the difference with the comparison that you mentioned in relation to the provinces. It is true that it is in the constitution that Slovenia has the provinces next to the municipality. However, this was not decided by the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court did not order the legislator to establish the province within a certain period of time. It's a fundamental difference and you're fooling people with it. As do those who have fought with weapons in their hands for Slovenia, you insult that everyone thinks as you think. Of course it doesn't! And when you talk about the provinces, which is totally incompatible with this story, of course, it is necessary to say that the constitution does not say that the National Assembly must establish as many provinces and as the SDS says, and if the National Assembly decides otherwise that this is unconstitutional. That's the way it's supposed to be. This logic is about the same as yours in terms of citizenship and compensation. So the main problem is that we deal with the consequences over and over again, or with the cause, but we don't connect it. The cause, the action would like to be heard, forgotten, and in this way no consequences have to be addressed. You have the right, and this right has been exercised, the Constitution gives it that one third of Members and Members may request a referendum and that a referendum should be called for if one third of Members and Members of Parliament so request. But before that we propose, and the mother's working body has also adopted such a decision, and I hope that today we will also confirm that the Constitutional Court has also ruled on it. And if the Constitutional Court finds that there are no unconstitutional consequences, the referendum will, of course, be signed and the electorates and voters will decide whether or not this law enters into force at the referendum. Of course, you tell us that we fear the people and that it will not end well that those who fear the people cannot form a government coalition or a majority. But this will be again decided by the people in the elections. At the same time, you do not say that you are afraid of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's decision. That's a whole other story. If you were convinced of the constitutionality of what you are doing, of course, the story of the Constitutional Court's decision would not be of any importance. The law is not in force at this point in time, we would have waited for a decision by the Constitutional Court and carried out a referendum. But there is a fear in you that the Constitutional Court will say that doing this is unconstitutional. Yes, and that's the problem you're facing, and you're also asking us why we haven't adopted a constitutional law. The answer is quite simple, it is only for the purpose of adopting constitutional law, what your goal was. The objective of the constitutional law was to resolve the issue in the way you think, by avoiding a decision of the Constitutional Court and any judgement of the Constitutional Court. It's clear. It can't be more transparent. And so if the Constitutional Court decides as you think it will decide, we will have a referendum. And even then, I'll tell you that I trust people's judgment. In recent years, too much has been said to drive someone thirsty across the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u81	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The minister said today about this speaker: "It is time to close the painful chapter of Slovenian history." In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, this time we absolutely agree with it. We are of the same opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this matter must be resolved once and for all. But in a slightly different way than you suggest in the coalition. We agree that if anyone has been wronged, this injustice must be corrected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have twice introduced a constitutional law that would really treat each individual individually. Once there was a referendum on this subject. With a really large majority, people were against the way you want to do it now. At the outset, I would like to say that, from the adoption of the law to today, there has been a major reversal. Now that the law has finally been passed, as you claim in the coalition, when the matter is closed, the masks have fallen. Today, for the first time since we are talking about the so-called deleted, even coalition Members have admitted that compensation will come. First time! I've never heard a coalition member say that there will be compensation for such a so-called deletion at any time. Today this was said, and also yesterday on the investigative committee, one of the Members said so, and the minister pointed this way. Of course, I agree that the law itself is not the basis, but the issue of the supplementary decision is the basis for everything below, as previously discussed by colleague Petan. So it's also about questions of another kind. It is a matter of lost contributions to pensions, lost years of work and retirement, lost opportunities to continue schooling, well-earned or destroyed health and so on. The decision issued is the basis for compensation. I think 78 claims for damages have already been filed. I wonder why no decision has yet been definitively and positively resolved. Is it possible that this law is expected to be passed and then these claims will be rejected? I'm afraid that's true. As far as the referendum initiative itself is concerned, the fact that the Constitution clearly states in Article 3 that the authority of the people is in Slovenia. And I think we should respect that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the time has come when such a law as you have proposed has come to judge people. After studying all the material recently, all of this documentation regarding the so-called deleted, I am sure that this issue is absolutely foreshadowed, both at home and abroad. The beginnings themselves date back to 1998, 1999 when even the numbers 130,000 were mentioned. 130,000. That's when we started talking about this number. The question is whether this number was intended to be so high for the discreditation of Slovenia abroad. That's not what I'm saying, but I'm wondering. The fact is, then it turned out that these people who didn't get their status back then were about 18,000, 18.305. Now, under the auspices of Minister Kresalov, we have reached the number of over 25,000. At the hearing, Mr Bohinc said that the number 18,305 was the right one for which it stands, and there is no doubt that it was the right one. Madam Minister Kresalov also said at the hearing yesterday that she was in favour of the number 25,000 and something else. Trust who? Data may not be drawn from the same database once such data, and other data may be different. And I look forward to the continuation of this commission of inquiry when the people who actually dealt with this information system were able to explain what we did not get those answers yesterday. So, in my opinion, it is a matter of inflating a problem that is not really what it is. Look at the case. People who did not want to take Slovenian citizenship but wanted to remain residents in Slovenia and wanted to exercise this right by making an application, but the matter was not realized for such or other reasons, and such people must be corrected for injustice. There's absolutely no need to fix the guilt. But the fact that you claim and today I have heard that thousands of people have been wronged only because of the law that stated that they must apply for permanent residence rights. Yeah, that's too much! And that's what I heard here today in this hall. That's too much! Now they also get the right back, again I hope the things that speculated and left Slovenia and because they did not believe in Slovenia. We're different here. It is necessary to deal with each case on a case-by-case basis. I believe in this individual hearing that Minister Kresalov spoke of yesterday. However, this individual treatment does not mean that a person should be asked: "Why didn't you arrange the status?".. This would be what we have always advocated in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Ask why you did not arrange your status when you were invited - not once, twice and in 1999 again! For three months, they had time in 1999 to re-establish their permanent residence status. And these are the facts and these are the things that we are pointing out in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And I really don't know why or why you're afraid of the referendum. If you think this arrangement is so good, then give it to the people who have it in Slovenia, for the time being, at least I hope that authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I will read the whole article 3 of the Constitution, not just the one that is in my right mind, and I will be very grateful if those who quote it will ever listen to it. Article 3 of the Constitution reads: "Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination." And the second paragraph: "In Slovenia has power of the people." Listen up! "Citizens and citizens execute it directly," which also means in the referendum, "and with elections," which means every four years by election to the National Assembly, until we decide otherwise, and then "according to the principle of division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial". And it is in the general provisions of the Constitution, which has ever read it to the end, that all these principles are later broken down in provisions relating to the state system, the National Assembly, the State Council, the Constitutional Court, the Court, the referendum and so on, and the provisions that have been removed, as you are applying them, constitute an abuse of our Slovenian Constitution. It is certainly true that later provisions speak of how individual parts of this Article are applied. And they're talking about the referendum. And I agree with those who warn that the ban on the referendum must be used extremely restrictively, because the referendum is one of the fundamental political rights that we have citizens and citizens, but not the only one, there are also elections and also the exercise of power through the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. And now there is a debate on how we explain the abuse or use of the referendum decision. If we have the right to a referendum, we have the National Assembly and we also have the Constitutional Court and other human rights. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the decision at the referendum should be made and taken in order to prevent the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. This would be a conflict, contrary to clear constitutional provisions. And what you are proposing is a referendum on the failure to implement the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, which stated that there has been a first finding since 1999 and before that, an unconstitutional situation, because they have been wronged by deleting or transferring from one record to a dead record. The right to permanent residence is one of human rights. I do not believe that the referendum can violate the rights of minorities or human rights. The purpose of the referendum must not be to violate human rights or to violate the rights of minorities; this is also your proposal in this case. For I do not believe that after so many years we would not be aware that the Constitutional Court has determined, in accordance with its competences, that a violation of the rights of deleted persons has been committed. I do not believe that today anyone can claim that the deletion has not been carried out in contravention of the law and that the Aliens Act was unconstitutional because it did not guarantee the same rights to foreigners who were citizens of other republics of the former SFRY, as it guaranteed the rights of foreigners who were from Austria, Italy and so on. And I do not believe that today anyone else hopes to claim, because, after all, it has made this clear in the debate on the working body of the then State Secretary, that the deletion of the records was made, that the documents with a hole were destroyed, that these people should go on a new path to ensuring their status, first by providing a temporary residence, by stating whether they have the right at all to a temporary residence or not, and the thorny path that was envisaged for someone who first entered a Slovenian state, not for someone who had lived in it for two or ten years, and has decided for many reasons not to apply for citizenship which was widely available, but will decide on the status that he had up to that point. And today, ladies and gentlemen, to speak so-called as you say, deleted, but actually deleted from the record, the status should be re-ordered, the visa of the Constitutional Court's decision is a complete non-reality. They had nothing to regulate because their status was unfairly and unconstitutionally confiscated. Therefore, proposals that are now nothing more than a return to the status that was before 6 February 1992; and that is all. In addition, the law requires only certain conditions under which it is possible to recover or not, individually, such status can be determined in 1992. I think it is time that we finally decide on this and that we do not have so many excuses and so many misgivings and untrue statements about these people. Each one of you would like to say, I'm willing to correct injustices if they happen. Only these injustices have occurred to all those who have changed their status without knowing it without having been given any decision and without being defined in the law. This solution is simply not in the law, but is implemented in this way. Today, everyone likes to say, "Yeah, we admit, we're willing to admit individual injustices, just not speculators." Dear gentlemen, who's the speculator? Tell me, define who is a speculator, not in a legal sense, in a political sense. Is it the speculator who has for many reasons decided not to accept citizenship, which I would like to continue a foreigner in the new country? Is it because he believed that this right had been guaranteed, as I said before, for a year or ten years, and he does not have to ask for it again? You're talking, we're willing to give rights to someone, but not to the invaders. However, you are not prepared to say how to ensure and acknowledge who was the occupying party or not. And you're not prepared to say that the law we adopted in the National Assembly has a way of determining. As in the rule of law, this is established: by individual examination under the judicial procedure. There is no other way, unless we say, as unfortunately happened in 1945, that we have some laws and some are passed by laws. I don't think that's what we want, and that's not good and right. I'm not talking about the content you're talking about. I will talk about what would be the consequence if the practice that you are demanding applies to human rights, to decide on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and what else, you say about everything, can be decided at the referendum. Will we also give every marriage at the referendum? Will I also pay the taxes, and will we pay the salary? I don't think so, because we have, as I have read to you, if you haven't forgotten, in addition to the direct exercise of power and elections, legislative, executive and judicial authority. And let each part of the function perform, because this is the only way we will be governed by the rule of law, otherwise we will not guarantee it. And in accordance with Article 22 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, it is possible for the National Assembly to decide before the request for a referendum that the Constitutional Court should decide whether, by carrying out the referendum and by rejecting the law at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. Please also accept this possibility and allow the Constitutional Court, within the framework of the division of power, to exercise the powers it has under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Mr. Croat, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Thank you. Look, Mr Potts, you said that at the time there was an unconstitutional and illegal act when the so-called erasure took place. Look, despite everything, with all due respect, I got it, this is the material that the Commission of Inquiry has and writes in it: this is from Mr Bohinc's material, "at that time it's about people who had in the Republic of Slovenia up to 26. 2. 1992 registered permanent residence and were all citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ who did not apply for Slovenian citizenship, either because they did not explicitly want to do so or for other reasons." And it goes on to say, "The fact is that these persons have become foreigners in accordance with the applicable legislation." And then it goes on, "in accordance with the then applicable law on foreigners, they had to regulate their foreign status in Slovenia." And then came the Constitutional Court's decision and a re-call for three months and so on. Dr. Bohinc here claims that this case was carried out legally. And here's our difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I will not personally discuss the content of the law regulating the status of citizens of other republics. There was plenty of time in this National Assembly for us to deal with this subject in one way or another when we adopted it. It is true that today we have two questions on the agenda, or one request for a legislative referendum or, on the other hand, the decision of the home working body regarding the constitutional judgment. Personally, as in the Group of Members, of course, I will support the conclusion of the Labour Body. However, I would like to point out that we have heard several times in this Chamber today that the referendum is the largest form of democracy. Indeed, the referendum is the largest form of democracy, it is only very difficult to get a clear position from the referendum when we have been in a negative position for 18 years or 17 years in the country against a question. Such a call for help at this time would in fact be irresponsible of us who were chosen by the people. Members and Members of Parliament are actually representatives of the people, and we will also have to assume some responsibility, in particular those responsibilities which, in fact, are very difficult to deal with by a wider multitude of people. Indeed, the people who established the State, the people who established the Constitutional Court, the people established the National Assembly, the people also instructed Members and Members in some way to rule on behalf of the people and, of course, for the benefit of the people. And if we haven't solved a subject in 17 years, it's actually the last time we're going to end it, and we're going to put it in some context. Of course, public opinion is currently on the side of those who say that a referendum is necessary. Of course, when we keep saying that this law will contribute negatively to the country, to taxpayers, etc., it is of course an ironic question, as this people would ask whether it is not necessary to pay the penalty, whether it is necessary to pay the tax, or whether we can get goods in the store without giving anything. I am personally convinced that it is necessary to give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to judge this and then, as the Constitutional Court will decide, to continue to respect it. I myself, as I originally said, will support the decision of my mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister. As I monitored the last few meetings in our National Assembly, I also monitored one passively, because I was in hospital, I could not get rid of the impression that there was a shortage of these meetings, those who would talk about the crisis, the improvement of the situation of Slovenian worker, Slovenian industry, or some new law after the crisis, which could have already launched Slovenia again, or taken it to a higher level of standard, to a higher level of quality of living. Our great poet Prešeren, and this quote, "Whoever speaks of something I don't know, this time boasts ai'; whosoever sings does not know anything, he who has been around since the seasons." So because there were no economic and anti-crisis issues, they came into line with another topic, not necessarily solved tomorrow; they can wait 18 years, at least 18 weeks, or 18 months. From these economics I have only observed an exit strategy, which has not yet dried up the press, has already been criticised in the relevant chambers, in the Chamber of Commerce, even the Chamber of Commerce has not expressed itself very well about it, has a lot of concerns, and in the end it may remain from the exit strategy only a board, a light board with magnets. If anything helps, I can bring some of these magnets to the government and the Prime Minister, and I think we've got some darts and turtles, so they're not just red and green lights. So all the other topics are designed, just not the ones we should be dealing with. Now, let's talk about today's topic. He's 18 years old. It's people, if there really were injustices, they kind of tolerated them. We ourselves agree that some rightly complain and need to be corrected. But there will be an increase of 4,000, 7,000, and 18,000, most recently 26,000. The logic of things would be that the number is decreasing, for in the eighteen years and even after all the natural laws, a lot of people die and the number should be reduced by this logic. On the other hand, I think it would be necessary to prove individually that a person has been really erased. On the basis of proving that he had been erased, that he had been wronged, and then in the process of redressing the wrongs; and this requirement was certainly to be made for individual treatment. In those days when these things were happening, I think it was possible to cancel in five minutes with an investment of 600 tolars. I also heard there was an even more thorny path. I know some who went after her, because in the end they only realized it was better to live in Slovenia than in the war zone. They went along longer, more expensive, more painful paths and eventually obtained the appropriate documents. So, for this period, we would certainly need some evidence that the victims were somehow obstructed. It probably did not prove that he was a "weekend chalet" or any similar matter, but that he was indeed detained in the war zone: either he was misinformed or otherwise his role was lost in the bureaucratic process. At the end of the day - when such an attitude towards redressing injustices - I would still remind my colleagues and colleagues that there are also fresh injustices, old year by year two. The same areas come from workers, mainly in construction, who work in slave-ownership conditions working under the conditions of the initial accumulation of capital from the 17th century. It is amazing that this is happening in the countries of the European Union or if this is happening in any other country, it is immediately published as a large black mark. The workers were visited by inspectors and found that they had no helmets, gloves and the like. But no one asked them if they got paid and what other injustices were happening to them. Blame also happens to our workers. They have not been paid contributions for a period of several years. And I wonder how the institutions that should receive these contributions work. Why did they not initiate recovery procedures and ensure the normal social security of these workers? Of course, injustice takes place at the end of some 18,000 and more people who have at least the fundamental right to grave and grave names, and it stops there. That is why I have no objection to the referendum, because the fall could be extremely rich: the referendum on the arbitration agreement, the referendum on the deleted, the local elections, and no harm to the national elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you. Dear Members and honourable Members! We have a delegation from the Committee on the Economy and Informatics of the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary in Slovenia. I welcome the entire delegation! [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. We wish them a pleasant stay until they leave. Mr. Chadjež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me just start by saying that I am a proud member of the party, as well as a Member who does not give priority to aggressor officers, we do not equate the same sexual relationship with the traditional family as regards adoption of children, and we oppose the requirement for a constitutional assessment of the referendum initiative. Today, when we are in those times and when you are judging a greatly increased number of eraseds, which are already over 25,000, high ratings, in which or in which there are not exactly any limits after payment of damages, which I think is the most dangerous. But we can also know and predict who will make the most of this work in the long term. I am sure and can also congratulate those 200,000 then Slovenes from the 1990s who believed in the Slovenian story and went to arrange the documents; they became Slovenian citizens and also acquired Slovenian citizenship. I remember well back in the '90s, when he told me a simple citizen from the Poljanska Valley, when he came home, he brought his pet, who was tied to the corner of the farm, and he insisted that he gave 1200 Slovenian tolars to vaccinate the dog. At the same time, Slovenian citizenship cost half the price. Anyone can imagine the value of Slovenian citizenship at the time and who could have it all. I wonder who else in this government coalition supports an honest Slovenian, a working Slovenian who works well, who does not speculate, pays taxes and, above all, who has the main Slovenian value not to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And we're back where we were a long time ago. The debate on the deleted continues, one and the same stereotypes, one and the same speculations are repeated, much is used the word "speculants", but here the greatest speculation is precisely this speculation with the obvious, at least in our opinion, an unconstitutional referendum, which is supposed to bring many political points to the two parties of the opposition. This is one of the great political speculations that unfortunately happens at the expense of concrete people. And these are deleted. Finally, we have received a law that enables all decisions of the Constitutional Court to be implemented, both in 1991 and in the second year of 2003, which makes it very clear why the deletion was illegal. And it will have to be repeated that the removal was illegal because it was based on the expectation and demand that those residents and former citizens of the SFRJ, who were permanently residing in the Republic of Slovenia and became overnight due to the changed status of this Republic and because of the independence, independence of this republic, will be one intermediate category - not foreigners and not citizens. At that time, some representatives of the public administration and the state and government interpreted the law on foreigners in such a way that all these citizens themselves should secure a new status, apply to the relevant competent authorities and regulate their status. In doing so, the opposition has consistently explained that there was a lack of interest in the regulation of the status of the citizen and thus blur the substance of the deletion. The deletion did not take place at the expense of citizens or non-citizens. The deletion took place at the expense of those who had actually become foreigners and had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. What a stranger has if he has a permanent residence somewhere - he has certain rights to work, the right to health, the right to operate in our banks and so on, the right to an account. In short, a whole series of rights that define the normality of life. And we don't care if those, at the time, were first talking about 30,000 deleted, then we came up with 18,000, now that the findings were consistent with the new information systems, we found that there were significantly more deleted. And that's a fact. The professional services have found this and the fact is that these deleted have lost all the rights that belong to them by law and by the status of foreigners with permanent residence. That's the whole story. And here, of course, it is very demagogic, populist and dangerously easy to define this population, which has lost all these rights, which has led some to end tragically, to brand them with invaders, speculators, enemies of the Republic of Slovenia, etc. You were also faced with statistics. In fact, you have seen how many members of the JNA were, and how many, the vast majority, were ordinary citizens who for one reason or another on that day and for the next six months did not go to the administrative unit window and did not arrange, did not apply for the status of Slovenian citizens. But they did not have to do that in order to maintain the status of foreigners with permanent residence. However, they also lost this status, and the Constitutional Court found in 1999 that this was carried out unlawfully. Pika! It's illegal! This illegality needs to be remedied. There was a technical law that was needed or not, but there was a way to deal with individual cases in a more clear and legal manner and to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and a referendum came. The first referendum in 2003 was once again a major political speculation with which the opposition won the elections at the time, for it created an atmosphere of divisiveness, creating an xenophobic atmosphere towards a certain part of the population. This was an opportunity for the outbreaks of hate speech like today, when again I do not know why there are other categories here, such as same-sex communities, such as some kind of social problem that needs to be addressed in such a demagogic and populist way. At the time the referendum was probably also unconstitutional, but the political circumstances were such that it went smoothly, no one thought that sometimes it would be necessary to determine whether certain requirements for referendums aimed directly at human rights were even possible. And to understand whether a referendum is legitimate or not, we have certain institutions responsible for telling us whether something is actually consistent with that constitution that we have adopted as an independent and democratic republic, respecting human rights, equality and equality of all citizens and people living here. The Constitutional Court is this institution. I think she deserves at least the minimum respect she deserves. And this constant mistrust, I do not know why the opposition does not trust the Constitutional Court and is not prepared to take this minimum step, the Constitutional Court's opinion on the constitutionality of the proposal for a legislative referendum. This is not understandable, it is essentially a permanent non-trust to the main state institutions that ensure the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law. It has been mentioned several times today how I would have reacted if a neighbouring Austria had requested or if a nationalist party in Koroška had requested a referendum to abolish or prevent bilingualism or to abolish Slovenian in the public domain. The Vienna Constitutional Court established that such a referendum would be unconstitutional. Do we agree? We probably agree. Or as the minister said at the outset, let's say that a group of neo-fascists appear and demand a referendum in Tržaška for the abolition of the Slovenian theatre in the middle of the town of Trieste. How would you react? Would you say that democratic right is the absolute right of the majority to decide at a referendum on the rights of a minority? Do we agree? I think we would disagree; if we responded indignantly, we would react indignantly, internationalise this problem and prove that it is an attack on human rights. I hope so. If we went to this referendum, we would create a precedent whereby anyone, any fascist tomorrow, could wave, in order to prevent certain minority rights from being realized. So a referendum like an absolute value that is above human rights, we can go to a referendum on the death penalty. Maybe even most of them would be for that. Maybe most of them would be for it, but that would be a big step back. Civilisation would have failed if we'd agreed to this logic that you're defending, so let's stick to the constitution. For the Constitution is that minimum, it is that convention that citizens conclude in order to keep certain values constant. And values such as respect for human rights, respect for legality are untouchable, even if most do not like it. Some things are "off limits" for most of them. Because sometimes circumstances lead to such a majority, in Germany we have seen in the 1930s, and to such a mass euphoria that all rights, including those of the majority who are angry, can be trampled. And we can't afford that. We have had several such referendums, we have experienced them, also on the basis of women's rights - then on artificial fertilization. We may be promised new referendums or new proposals for referendums against same-sex communities. I mean, it's a constant of every intolerable right. To continue with such a message - please, but the National Assembly is obliged to demand a constitutional assessment of each step that smells of impatience. I think we have a duty in this case, and I also advise the opposition to use as many constitutional options as possible. And if you feel that this law was unconstitutional, file a complaint before the Constitutional Court and request a review of this law. And you've decided to take the most demagogous, politically speculative step that is supposed to market your rating. But in the long run, we'll lose everyone on this path, us and you. Me and you! Let's make sure of that. Once again, I will absolutely support the conclusion. I think we're at one of those milestones where we decide on constitutionality and human rights or on demagogism, populism and shortcuts that always lead to non-democratic [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mrs. Pecanova, will you speak? We'll wait, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I had to consult with my colleagues. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd start with what I heard more than once today as some kind of personal response to that. In view of the fact that this referendum is the right of the people or the exercise of what we have written in the Constitution, that this country is the country that has established the people and that is what should always decide everything. I think that one very clear rule is that the people at the referendum cannot and must not decide on human rights. And the right to residence is one of the fundamental human rights. So it's not about denying people the right to decide on important things in this country. It is not that, as I have heard, some people today say that we are underestimating the minds of citizens and citizens of this country, that we despise them and yet I do not know what terrible expressions I have heard. No! No! It is prohibited to refer questions relating to fundamental human rights to a referendum. And here it is certain that the right of residence is a fundamental human right. If, of course, we are going to continue to watch, including that this law or that it is not true that human rights have been violated, and it is not true that the act of erasure has been unconstitutional and illegal. This, of course, can be claimed by a person who does not know that the Constitutional Court has twice ruled on this and declared the Aliens Act in those provisions relating to the right to permanent residence of foreigners to be unconstitutional and illegal. Therefore, of course, we cannot claim anything at all, only a person, as I have already said, who does not know what the Constitutional Court has decided, or another, simply does not respect and recognise the Constitutional Court. We know that someone once said very clearly, "I don't recognize this court." Perhaps even there is someone in this Chamber who does not recognize our constitutional court, but let it be very direct and clear, because if he does not recognize the Constitutional Court, then it means that he does not belong here in the National Assembly. I simply recognize the Constitutional Court and its judgments and consider them to be the highest judgements, the highest decisions it does not call for. And for this reason, I would ask those who think that way, but sometimes they stop, three times they take their breath, count to ten, and then they just blurt out what they're accustomed to. Here I would just say that this judgment, which awaits us, I am deeply convinced that given that the Constitutional Court has already said twice that these things need to be settled, that injustice needs to be corrected, that today I need only do so, by the way, I have heard even something very unusual. [[...]] That we are a country that was created just 20 years ago, and therefore we do not have to take any account of those people who, 20 years ago or eighteen years ago, decided not to be citizens of this country, but that they will remain, I will say to their roots that they will remain here as permanent residents because they had a job here because they had families here because they had a place here. However, some here at our home, not only in this hall, but also outside it, simply cannot speak the language of hatred and hatred. I think it's really sad that in the democracy that you now say, the statements of many here in the Chamber we've been enjoying for only 20 years now, saying that someone has no right to correct his injustice. We have corrected the injustices of many in this House by adopting a whole series of laws. And now that this lawless or unconstitutional law is up to date, we continue to claim that we are called only to correct wrongs to some but not to others. Where is equality before marriage here? Where is the right of equal treatment here also in this highest body, the legislative body of this country? I think today we have come to a step or not today, but at the time of the adoption of the law, that we have come so far as to mature and we can say: now is enough. We will no longer allow ourselves to humiliate and do wrong to people who are not our citizens, but who have contributed and contributed to many of them today so that everyone in this country can at least have a decent life. We recently confirmed or proposed to the National Assembly on the Committee on Foreign Policy that it should vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement with Serbia, in which we determined that those people, citizens of Serbia in Serbia and citizens of Slovenia in Serbia have, in the event that they have been employed and have lost their job, that they have the right to compensation for unemployment, whether they have been registered, continuously or not, because, to date, we have the right to social compensation for unemployment associated with permanent residence. Unusual. It is said that we have behaved in this way for a long time by denying a person who, by the way, pays a contribution in the case of unemployment, but after having this right to enjoy compensation on the basis of this contribution, he does not have to be compensated. Is that fair? And here are the individual injustices that have been committed to some people for a completely unknown reason, unless the reason is that the one they suspect is from this hateful expression about these people; as if they were all alone from that infant who had already lived as a foreign citizen in Slovenia in 1991 and to an old man who was 70 years old who even lost his pension because he simply did not exist anymore. He didn't exist. He could not show up at the post office or at a bank with no document because his ID card was either punctured or cut in the administrative unit. So, if we think that these people and these children and even those children in the middle were just waiting for them to make a counter-revolution, as they might call it, in Slovenia, I think we've really come a little too far. I hope, however, that you will think a little bit about your decision to oppose the surrender of this referendum initiative to the Constitutional Court, because if you are against it, then it means that you believe that the Constitutional Court will, however, consistently decide in favour of the protection of human rights. And if you are against the Constitutional Court judging for the protection of human rights, it means that you are against the exercise of human rights, regardless of what rights it is. We have already experienced that once there was a referendum on individual human rights, I will not explain who it was, because I have to say that I personally was sad that we could even reach such a referendum - but still. I think that, at the referendum, making decisions on fundamental human rights is certainly unworthy of Members of this national assembly, citizens and citizens of our country. That is why, of course, I will support this proposal to the Constitutional Court and I propose that we support it unanimously, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Respectable. When I was representing the club's position, I was confident that we would not discuss today the law and all the consequences that the marriage would bring, and especially not the circumstances that were at the time of the disappearance, and how someone saw them or how someone would like to see them and what was what he thought was right. Today, however, we are deciding on a matter that is called upon by the Constitutional Court to decide at this preliminary stage whether this referendum would be such that there could be irreparable constitutional consequences in the event of a positive outcome. And because I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber would convince him to vote differently than he has come ready - so those in favour of the referendum will certainly oppose this decision, but I also believe that we will be enough to support this decision, and that we could, in fact, end it. But given that much has been said, it can only be useful for the public to convince someone that what this law brings does not go to the detriment of anyone in this country; that it does not affect the rights or social rights, not any other person who has these rights in the Republic of Slovenia, and that it is something else altogether. You're talking about numbers, but it's clear to me that if only one person has been deleted, it needs to be fixed. The numbers on these issues are irrelevant and it is very bad to talk about people becoming numbers. When people become numbers or when we become numbers, when we don't have a name, when we don't have a last name, when we don't have a pedigree, it's really bad. And here you're talking about how they're growing, that you're "adapting these numbers according to your needs" and so on, which is really unacceptable -- at least for me. For me, every human being, perhaps a foreigner, perhaps one with Slovenian citizenship, permanent residence or temporary residence, or a Slovenian with permanent residence in Germany, which is also large, as you know, or elsewhere in the world, is not persecuted in the way we have persecuted some who had the right to this status in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in 1992. Of course, there were so many, so terrible things like that, for example, you have to ask everyone what he did, what he did, what he missed, what he didn't come and what he didn't do. Yeah, it would be a hell of a shame if you and the ones who put these things up like that were even interrogating these people. I am sure that none of these could have explained that he had a good purpose, that he had a noble intention not to be hated by this country, but that he had other embarrassments, hardships, needs, in the end, separated between two countries and so forth. It was even heard in this hall and in the halls at the time of the hearing of the candidate for the last minister who took an oath in the National Assembly, if he cannot be, because he also has another nationality, because he is one of the parents from another country and one of the parents from our country. Then what is it? Is it not there, nor here, is a man without a name, without a surname, without his personality, with his dignity, with his fundamental human rights? And that's all this is about. If it's not after 18 years and even more time to take a distance, in peace, anyone who's angry with anyone around him, neighbor or anyone and put him on the list immediately, has been erased and would say that he must also go with him, calm down and say, he was also my co-worker, my neighbor, my acquaintance and he can live with us and get the rights that go to him. It's also free to talk about these numbers you've been talking about. Today it was amazing to listen, and not for the first time to even quote it like that, I will say, an unacceptable president for, say, an SDS client like Milan Kučan, the president of the country, and he's quoted further and further and suddenly his numbers are sacred and that's what's right. Everything else he's been doing, it's kind of off-limits anyway. I'm pretty sure it's a fraud, too, when you say, 'cause maybe there'll be more than 25 grand or something. I am confident that there will be significantly fewer, significantly fewer than 25 000 671 for a practical reason. I'm not talking about who might potentially get this status, but I'm talking about who's going to enforce it on a practical level. This status will have to be enforced and there will be a lot of evidence to prove. Whether he is no longer dead or in any way or has arranged his life’s ambitions and status in a different way, elsewhere, in another country, and so forth. And only when we are finished with both processes, by issuing complementary decisions, which is fortunately over, if I am properly informed, and of course the status arrangements under this law, will we be able to know how and what is going on with this. I can't imagine it any different than to find out that someone, somewhere, in one of the records in Slovenia in 1992, recorded it and transferred it and reappeared in some record. It can't just be new or be re-registered twice or something like that. These are simple things, and here we have to tell the public undisputedly what this is about. And the numbers, as has been said here, are, according to the testimony, before the committee of Mr Bohinc, the former minister, as well as the current minister, there is no difference between statements in any way. They both say that, after what one or what has been done has been done in the mandate of another minister, each of them stands and is not in conflict, because they are only after what they had at their disposal in the 2000-2004 term, and in the way that these things were done, these numbers were such. He stands, I was also on this committee, for sure, and also what you quoted today was partly used in the way that comes to those who want to see that the result is different, that the picture is different. This is understandable; even in the Constitution, when quoting an article, leave something out because one part of the article does not suit you or you want to see that it would be different. However, this is how things are going in the direction, which is most important that we have done with the law in the National Assembly to adopt it, the veto of the State Council has not voted, which means that the State Council also trusts and believes that the time has come, but sometimes one feels that they like to vote on a law or because we are a little irritated, or because they have a serious argument that they object to the law and demand redecision. But this law is also considered by the State Council that the law is amended and that it deals with an issue. And now we have only one last act left: whether confirmation at the referendum by yours or by ours. And that is why I must say that I regret all the services in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges, that they will have to review and study all this again so that they can come to the same conclusions as they did in the two decisions of the Constitutional Court and tell us again that it is just as we have done because they have imposed it on us; and, on the other hand, to remind us that with human rights, the dignity of the people cannot be played, even if it is as strong a political will or if it would suit anyone else. It is time to say that 2010 too, however late, can and should be a happy year for some. I myself will support the request that the Constitutional Court decide whether this is acceptable or not before the referendum is called for.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I would also like to discuss it on my behalf, because, on behalf of a member of the group, I do not normally hope to express my personal views so firmly. Therefore, first of all, for me, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia has some symbolic weight due to the fact that this law was passed on 8 March, on the International Day of Women, and I consider the fight for women's rights to be an elementary beginning of the fight for human rights. And the regulation of the issue of deleted, regulated by this law, is also for me the regulation of human rights, fundamental. It is simply a matter of regulating the right to permanent residence. This is a fundamental right. Depriving an individual of the right to reside, to this status, is the most serious infringement because the right to a home - even the various decisions of the European Court of Human Rights have been found to be the worst violation of fundamental rights. It's universal justice. Therefore, if someone has not applied for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not have the right to deny him the status of permanent residence as a result of injustice. Because I don't understand those who keep saying you don't mind if the issue is being settled for those who have been wronged, that there are speculators in between. And who was a speculator by this criterion?Oh, my God! Are we trying to live in the late 1980s when, however, everyone with a letter of intent was assured that everyone living in the territory of Slovenia would enjoy the same rights as they had before. And hence the high participation of the plebiscite, and hence the great support of the international community. And now we want to discuss with some skilled or less skilled manoeuvres the fact that, by December 1991, it was possible to apply for citizenship and that the issue of status and permanent residence was not addressed at all. And let's just forget about it. And Mr. Fatty is in that famous dispatch, after 26, I think she was 27. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Well, wait a minute, Mrs. Potrata. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u102	of February [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Wait a minute. [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u104	I don't mind, Mr. Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Well, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u106	It's just what I was saying at the beginning, that's all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u107	I want to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u108	the attitude towards women in Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u109	to calm down and listen [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u110	to speaking women [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Ma'am. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u112	And especially. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u113	It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u114	So, in that famous dispatch, Mr Debelak gave instructions on what they must do and that they must do so under the Aliens Act. For this law, which we had previously heard a quote about how the former Minister of the Interior spoke in some specific circumstances, but he said that the law was in force at the time, and later the Constitutional Court found that it was unconstitutional. And what, you know, when they say, is not a sin to be ignorant, but a sin is in ignorance to insist, I would expect that after all these discussions we now know that this fact was known that this law on foreigners was found to be unconstitutional and nullified in 1999. I wish that, finally, because of the implementation of this law, which we have adopted on 8 March, those who like to make claims and who want to put "so-called" before individual words will not be able to do so, because, as a fellow Member says, this will become a legal norm or a legal term and it will no longer be possible to suppress it during the conscription. For me, it's not a happy rhetorical figure, but it's even less ethical if someone puts deleted, same-sex, and occupied. They taught me to compare what was comparable. These are incomparable categories, only if someone really sees them that way, but I have only every reason to find out how some do not recognise Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution and how they do not take into account that discrimination is unacceptable. It is because of our personal views that we want others who think otherwise to put some markings on them. It sounded that way, those who defend the family code, so I understood, those who defend the status regime deleted, are not exactly the right ones. We are already worthy of some doubt and some special designations. Today was even about giving a speech. Now I do not know which category and what arguments this can be based on. As far as the requirement of citizenship is concerned, you know, I don't see anyone claiming citizenship. But I can see that the state must not take away his permanent status. And given the situation with us when there were many national mixed laws, when in fact some people had to decide which nationality they would have, I have no reason and no right not to blame anyone if they did not ask for Slovenian citizenship. This is a matter of his free judgment, and here we see how democratic we are: whether we leave one another free choice or not, if this freedom does not run against the rights of others. And it didn't hit on the rights of others. We talked a lot about how many, many international organisations have judged Slovenia's decision not to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Some also do not believe these international institutions. I would point out once again that the Ombudsman in Slovenia has also repeatedly, since 1995, I feel that he has been constantly alerting me to violations of human rights and that this needs to be regulated. But I now have here a translation of the appendix to the report of the Working Group on Universal Periodic Review and a list of recommendations received by the Republic of Slovenia at an interactive dialogue in the context of the universal periodic review of respect for human rights in Geneva on 16 February 2010, as well as the Government's responses. These are recommendations, so we'll have a clear idea, 97. 11 of these recommendations relate to the handling of the issue and the law on deleted. And if you look here, in nine of these recommendations, the government has replied that it expects this issue to be resolved by the adoption of the law, which we confirmed in the National Assembly on 8 March. I do not see any serious reason for not believing that other countries are watching with attention what is happening to us. We live in times where the mobility of the population is strong, where we have to deal with different stereotypes, and it must be the first task of tolerance, tolerance, acceptance of different types, while ensuring the realization of human rights, for a sustainable life among people. Therefore, I fully support the decision proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy to the National Assembly for its vote, and I would expect at least those who are members of a working body of the National Assembly, which also has human rights on its behalf, to support this decision if all others who have already made a request for a referendum cannot do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u115	Thank you. Madam Minister has the floor. You don't want to. Then I give my word to Mr Ptræ as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I apologize to everyone because, on behalf of the home working body of the Justice Committee, I have also set up an internal policy debate today. It should be known, however, that the main reason for this was the request of 31 Members and Members to decide on the issue of the law at the referendum. I would like to say that this law, if we read it honestly, does not say anything but to ensure that, on the day of deletion, rights are guaranteed to be deleted after the status they had until the date of their deletion. Everything else is just a condition that this decision can be made. It follows from the assumption that the decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999 and 2003 is compulsory for all and that it is indisputably clear that the deletion was unconstitutional. Another thing I'd like to say. There was a lot of talk today about the content of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, at least we who sit here know that speech is for the public and not for us, because we know that talking about the content of the law is not related to whether it will be decided that a request will be made from the Constitutional Court to decide whether the adoption of the law would have unconstitutional consequences, because the content of the law can only be decided later if and once the law enters into force. At that time, the talk will be about whether all the solutions to the procedure and the content are consistent with the Constitution, and at that time those who have doubts about the substantive arrangements may propose this in a constitutional opinion or otherwise. You know, however, that you have no argument for this or that these arguments are very few, which is why you are also opposed to the Constitutional Court being asked questions. And third, which I would like to pay particular attention to, all your statements of benevolence and the fact that, long ago, if the current coalition wanted to do so, it would be possible to adopt a law that would solve the problems of the deleted are not real. I have followed all these debates and all the attempts, including those internal ones, in previous mandates, and I know that all the proposals have been linked to one fundamental reason: it is not possible to agree and acknowledge that the anti-constitution was committed in 1992. And it is not possible to land and admit that the status that was to be restored to those people who had been unjustly deprived of that status until 26 February 1992. As a result, there was also a requirement for a law regulating constitutional matter that was not adopted on our part. So it wasn't about form, but it was about content that didn't want to acknowledge this unconstitutional solution. I hope and wish that the debate on the law on deleted is the last time in the National Assembly and that we will have the opportunity from now on to solve this problem, not to re-create it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I received a notice from the President of the National Assembly with the following content. Allow me to read: The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled an amendment replacing the text of the draft decision with the text after which the National Assembly supports the invitation to a legislative referendum. In view of today's item on the agenda in which the assembly decides on the application of the powers under Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, i.e. the requirement for a constitutional review of the referendum decision, I find that the proposed amendment cannot be subject to debate and decision in procedural and substantive terms. The purpose and content of the proposed amendment may be covered in the context of the decision on the Decision on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, which is not subject to consideration of this item on the agenda. I therefore believe that the amendments have not been tabled. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. First of all, I have a procedural proposal concerning the application of Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This article provides that the Government in the National Assembly shall be represented by the President of the Government, without any restrictions, and by the Ministers of State. Unfortunately, I note that the Minister who is here today does not represent the Government, because she did not use the views of the Government in the debate. We note that the National Assembly has actually become just a photo deadline for government representatives. This has not happened for the first time, but this has now become a permanent practice for all government representatives who announce the time for discussion in the National Assembly and then come to sit down and not discuss. I propose that the President of the National Assembly, who has joined us, address to the Government the protest that the National Assembly, in such a way that there is no debate provided, does not ensure that there is a confrontation between the executive and the legislative authorities in order to call on the President of the Government to take appropriate action and order his ministers to debate in the National Assembly. There's no time to sit here for six or seven hours. I think that ministers, if they don't want to discuss, have more important work than sitting in the National Assembly, looking at MPs and playing with their cell phones; maybe there's some tetris playing on these electronic devices. It is the Government's duty to defend positions in the National Assembly, to discuss the argument of all these opinions. Therefore, I propose that you, the honourable President of the National Assembly, actually address the warning we have already given several times in writing, upload or ask the Government if they have already come to the National Assembly to at least discuss it. We do not have photo-terms for the face of the year, we do not have photo-terms for the masks of years, we have a working session where we need to discuss and defend our positions. So much for Rules of Procedure and 235.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, you know the Minister can speak or not say it's his personal decision. This is, however, a question that would be better addressed to the College of the President of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much for the kindness of fellow members of the coalition. Your Honor! Today we have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a decision adopted by the working body. This has already been reported in the previous part of the meeting that this amendment does not comply with Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. I note that this amendment of our number one amendment, which we have tabled, is in no way contrary to article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. It says here what the National Assembly is doing and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may make amendments to all proposals for decisions adopted by the working body. I'm going to read this amendment number one that we tabled. We propose that the National Assembly supports the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other States of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly at its 14th session. 3. 2010 following a reduced procedure, since it trusts citizens that, in the context of direct enforcement of power in the legislative referendum, they will be able to assess the appropriateness of solutions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Republics of the Former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to know what this proposal is in contravention of article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. I propose that the President of the National Assembly, who said he believes that this amendment proposal is not tabled in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, explain this orally at this meeting. There are no arguments or limitations, not in the law or in the Rules of Procedure for the submission of an amendment, and I propose that these amendments be put to the vote because there are no reservations in the law or in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think that this is just another abuse used by the leadership of the National Assembly to hinder the proposal and decision-making in the National Assembly when it feels that anything could happen, is simply declared by an amendment or by a proposal submitted by the opposition parliamentary groups, either as irrelevant, or as inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, or as diametrically opposed to the proposal for a decision, or by an unconstitutional and I do not know any one. At least the reasons, respected President of the National Assembly, would be due to intervene before you accept anything that is contrary to the rules of procedure and also to the law and also to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you. With regard to the rejection of the amendment, the explanation was read and I do not think that it is necessary to distribute it in writing. That is why we are going to the vote, and first of all I am asking Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members, to explain the vote. [[...]] Check-in is on. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u122	Your Honor! The Constitutional Court has never ordered the ruling coalition to equalise the Holocaust and the independence of Slovenia and thereby use hate speech and insult the conscious Slovenes and Slovenes and the Jewish community. The Constitutional Court has never ordered the ruling coalition that damages for falling into the war for Slovenia should be limited to three thousand euros, while for those who fired as aggressors, as an occupying party to the JLA, compensations should be unlimited. This is something that the Constitutional Court has never ordered. The Constitutional Court has never ordered the ruling coalition to draw up a law that will be full of lax formulations when it comes to fundamental rights, and then to give further warnings of the apparent unconstitutionality of such a law with contempt, as if the driver of the ambulance, because someone in distress, had been excused to overrun another 20 pedestrians. This is the way the ruling coalition works with constitutional principles. The Constitutional Court has never ordered the ruling coalition to act against Milan Kučan, who said that it would be the saddest thing if someone said that we had had ethnic cleansing in Slovenia. The expression that we have heard several times in this very hall by the ruling coalition and we have heard even the equation of the Holocaust by self - conquest due to the so - called deletion. As a result, the coalition no longer uses Milan Kučan’s words, but rather the words of the generals JLA, the word of the aggressor. This is something that the Constitutional Court has never ordered. Of course, this clearly testifies to something that is the sovereign policy of this coalition. The Constitutional Court has never ordered the law to be based on a lie that it would have no financial implications for the budget. Far from it. This misrepresentation, too, is a reflection of your sovereign, well-recognizable policies. And that's what this is all about! The people, the people, as the holder of the highest sovereignty under the Constitution, have every right to speak directly about this policy of yours at the referendum. Therefore, I urge you not to take this decision today, to send it to the Constitutional Court, and to leave the decision on this people. We will, of course, vote against it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Pukšič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u124	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will vote against such a proposal for a decision for a simple reason because - the Slovenian People's Party or the request for a referendum is not about human rights but about the law. Such a law is inappropriate. That such a law was inappropriate, the Slovenian people had already said at the referendum. The Constitutional Court has ordered that the law should regulate these matters, which were contrary to the Constitution, by regulating the law, but by not creating new injustices, so as not to cause a new increase in public spending indefinitely. And it is clear to the Slovenian public that those who vote against going to the Constitutional Court, not to go to the Constitutional Court, do not decide on human rights, but decide on a bad, really bad law. And in such key cases, where hundreds of millions of euros can be questioned in the back and even more important is the dignity of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, simply a coalition should not and cannot afford such an adventure. Looks like the coalition lost its compass. Why - it's just not clear. data, and unfortunately figures show, even 2003 and 2004, when the referendum was held, that unemployment was over 10% there, and today this coalition has achieved such unemployment again. At the end of 2008, unemployment was only about 6.5%, and today it is only to say that 2010 will be a happy year, due to the adoption of this law, that it is terribly unfortunate for more than 100,000 unemployed people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u125	Thank you. I can see the hands. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Croat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally trust citizens and citizens, so I will vote against it. The main reason why I will vote against it is the fact that today, for the first time in this National Assembly, the coalition has said that compensation will be paid. That's a fact. That's what we've all heard. I have a feeling that it was waiting for the conclusion of the legislative procedure when the law was passed, the matter was over, and now you have given a clear signal to all those to whom you have issued decisions, that it is now the right time for some of the lawyers to already wait for a wide open hand to accept these people and then represent them against a country where I think they will be able to receive some very enormous compensation. But it is sad that even those who, at a time when they could settle their status, speculated, some would even turn their weapons against the Slovenes and the Slovenes. The fact is, it's wrong, it's wrong, and no law will be good for me, except one that will actually treat each other individually and also ask him why he didn't settle his status when he could arrange it. All that is now being accepted is just a farce for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I believe and trust citizens and citizens. I believe and trust also in the Slovenian Constitution and in the wish of the National Assembly to respect it as closely as possible. I do not believe and do not believe in the opposition's views, because I have heard them again today and speak or these opinions are based in many things on half-truths or falsehoods, and I do not want to discuss a referendum that will again take a month, a month and a half, a two-month division of Slovenians and Slovenians, where we will walk through the conventions and speak each of our own. Of course, no one will be able to prove that before mass. And what is it that I don't believe in? I do not believe that this constitutional law gives anything other than that it restores the status which was unlawfully withdrawn on 26 February 1992. It is not true that this law is in any way related to citizenship and that the coalition or individual parties count on it to have 25,000 votes to save their skin. It's a simple invention. I do not believe that it is true that this law decides on compensation because it does not have a word on it and leaves the matter to the courts in view of the specific situation. Extreme stupidity is the claim that people did not choose citizenship because they speculated. It is even more unreal that the adoption of this law will enable people who have not had this right so far to be able to obtain housing under the Law of Jasbinsk. And there are many such untruths that will support the proposal to go to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much. What are we actually talking about, or what will we conclude? The law on so-called deletions, which you voted by a coalition majority, we want to send the opposition to the people for their assessment. This means that we want a referendum to be held on this. Someone in the coalition had previously asked if that article was still valid for having authority over the people in that country, then they should allow it. But the coalition majority wants to achieve today, huh? Take away this power and this right from the people and place the Constitutional Court in that role that will decide on it. You most likely expect that it will decide negatively that the referendum will ban it again, you probably expect it to decide what it has already decided twice a year ago. That's not good. And today we've heard a whole bunch, I have to point out, a pile, and the time is not enough to list just a few lies. The law does not provide compensation, of course, half-truth for people. The truth is, as a result of this law, there will be and will be lawsuits and damages. The law does not stipulate that we give citizenship. Of course, we don't, but we give cinema tickets to cinemas, it means a permanent residence permit, which is a condition or a previous phase for citizenship. Not "barbat" people, please! You could still count, from that piercing and so on, so we're still talking about speculators. All those who didn't want to do it were speculators. This is a large majority of them, so such a decision cannot be supported by your proposal to go to the Constitutional Court. Get him in front of the people!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much again. In fact, I am sure if there will be a coalition today, and as I see it, it will vote that the law will go to the Constitutional Court, today more than when the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted, because it is of course more important that the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitution and its powers, imposes or decides that the law may go to the referendum. This is the constitutional right of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It will therefore decide that the marriage will go to a referendum. If the marriage falls at the referendum, the task will be to draft a new law, one that will respect the Constitutional Court's decision. The decision of the Constitutional Court - someone said in the debate today, you who speak, are very smart, but we, I don't know, are fooling around nonsense - is only until the law is passed. You know, it was really stupid today to listen to comparisons with the rights of our minorities in neighbouring countries. Our minorities in neighbouring countries are in violation of their rights. I even once said that Austria is not a country of law, and it turns out that it is not really a country of law that is doing what it is doing today. Or it is pointless to compare this to the correction of the injustices that took place after 1945. God help you to see what else lies in some bad pits, as this Great Cave has revealed. We're in the Slovenian People's Party, and I'm here to make amends to injustice if it ever happened to anyone. But if it did happen to him, he was, unfortunately, guilty because he didn't sign up for it. But let him fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I will vote against this decision. In explaining or justifying my decision that the referendum must be, I will read to you from today's Legal Practice, where the author wrote down what else needs to be done if this law is adopted: "There is still a need to resolve the issue of lost contributions to pensions erased, lost years of working age and retirement years erased, lost opportunities to continue schooling and well-read and destroyed health resulting from mental and physical difficulties of living or untreated injuries and diseases erased, and questions of official apology, independent investigations and measures and determinations of responsibility for elimination remain.' It's all in front of us. It's written down. But this marriage is the basis for all of this. If we have yet to apologize to people who did not want to regulate their status, if they are able to sue the Slovenian state for their mental state, because something has not been settled, then the question is clearly raised where are those hundred thousand citizens who have lost their jobs, what mental state are they in, but they will not be allowed to sue the state, and those who do not want to settle the status will be able to sue the state for their mental state because they have not settled this status. This is more than justifiable that the referendum must be for citizens and citizens to decide whether they agree that some citizens who did not want to become citizens will eventually be able to sue the country for enormous amounts, and they have never wanted to be identified as a citizen of our country before that, and now they would sue for some compensation. This is unacceptable and it must be a referendum, so I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. Since there is still a desire to explain your voice in your own name, the application is pending. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I will also vote against such a decision, because I object to the decision of the Constitutional Court on such an important issue, because it is the people we have to trust. And once again, the power and coalition, which fear that the people will decide, do not deserve such authority. I hope that the people will recognize this, and when they have the opportunity to decide on this issue, they also have the legal basis for making the right decision. I am particularly concerned that yesterday we were able to hear that 7,000 additionally identified so-called deleted consequences, at least so the Minister said at the hearing in the investigative commission that this was due to the upgrading or replacement of the information system. How can someone give such an explanation? I believe that, first of all, the Minister, because it is unacceptable that, on the basis of some replacement or upgrade, such cataclysmicly altered data can be obtained. If this is true, then we cannot trust any information that the information system also processes. Therefore, it is more than obvious that this number is unfair, fictional and compensation, which will be the consequences of this, reaching into the sky and I fear that our taxpayers will have long, long years of consequences and this is not right, so let people decide on these matters at the referendum. Let us trust them as they deserve, and we will see whether they support such a law or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u138	The Constitutional Court has never ordered the adoption of a law that could lead to a situation where, in a worse situation, the new citizen or that new citizen who, at the time of independence or after it, properly regulated his status in accordance with the law of that time, wanted to respect the legal order of the State of Slovenia, against the person who attacked Slovenia with a weapon and threatened that new citizen, insulted him, shamed him or even exposed him to physical violence, as such cases were without a doubt. This has not been ordered by the Constitutional Court, and you have decided not to impose any restrictions in the law and it is therefore clear that the exercise of the rights back and associated costs and also compensation in individual cases will certainly be. This is not just a matter of legal practice, i.e. a profession, ladies and gentlemen, to which you like to refer. That's what you're testifying to. While one more person, like six years ago, claimed that there would be no compensation, there would be no costs, the laziness that we are listening to has already been correctly told by others that the compensations will be, because they must be, and they will be great. A fellow from Zares, who made this very clear, told the truth and exposed the transfer of this coalition, which reflects only the core of its policy. The core that is visible at this point when it comes to deciding whether a particular case is being dealt with, whether an individual is acting at the time of independence or not. And if this is not dealt with and if it is possible to assert all rights for everyone, including the aggressor, then we come to a legal precedent without a precedent in history that for the first time the employees of the occupation will be rewarded, because of a law based on lies and therefore the people have all the right [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u139	Thank you. Since it's still a wish, I'm opening an application to explain my own voice. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. None of the members of the ruling coalition have, at the time of the debate on the adoption of this law, equalled independence with the Holocaust, which is stated in the request for a referendum and has been signed by 31 members of the National Assembly. Each of them and many others could look at the magnetogram of the record at the time of the adoption of this law on 8 March, which says that Member Vito Rožej said the following words: "It is possible to claim that the deletion was not, as people who today claim that the Holocaust was not." In addition, this same Member will say something else. The deletion was not part of Slovenian independence, so it would be unfair to link and exploit these two processes, such as Slovenian independence to justify the deletion. It may have been a delete part of Slovenian spring, but this is not the same as Slovenian independence. These two processes interact widely, but not in the erasure process. The deletion can also be called transfer between records, as well as the Holocaust can be called "Endlösung" or in the Slovenian language "final solution". The difference is much more than linguistic, the difference is profoundly valuable. Because of this difference and my view of these things, I will vote in favour of the conclusion of the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, this law is about paying for nostalgia throughout the former country. If I am not mistaken, on 10 December 2008, the then President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Wygl, in Belgrade, promised to settle in a short time the status of all so-called deleted persons created at the time of independence. In a day or two, tomorrow, the conference organised by the Prime Minister of Slovenia, Mr Pahor, on the Hill, will probably be the basic message of this conference, that we have finally adopted all the necessary legislation in the National Assembly concerning the regulation of this status. That is probably why President Pahor is working so hard that these conferences are actually attended by all the current presidents of the governments of the former republics of the former country. But here's the problem. As has already been said, at the hearing before the commission of inquiry, the Minister said that the increase in the number of deleted results was due to the information system. If this logic persisted that, at the time the information system was replaced, the number of deleted by one-third would probably increase by one-third because it uses the same information system. And we would be now, Your Honor Minister, 3 million. $3 million, if that's true. And for all these reasons, because it is a matter for realisation of certain matters that have not contributed anything to the Slovenian state, I will also oppose the adoption of this decision, which is proposed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u144	It is clear that I will vote in favour of this decision because it is a decision for constitutionality and against attempts to make this constitutionality a principle. I will vote in favour of this decision because it is a decision against nostalgia after other times and regimes, when they were different, always branded and punished.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-18-SDZ5-Izredna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. Since there is no wish, we are going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night.
