ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that Members Branko Grims and Jakob Preseknik cannot attend today's meeting. I welcome everyone. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REGULAR DECISIONS ON THE INITIATION OF THE OPPORTUNITIES OF DISABILITIES. At its 24th extraordinary meeting, on 2 November 2010, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities be decided again before the announcement. To explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Boris Šuštaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Equalization of Opportunities Act is very important for Slovenian disabled people and also substantially complements the Slovenian Disability Protection System. This is one of the rare laws that was prepared at the level of government and government in full agreement with users, this is with Slovenian disabled people, although it covers only one part of the emergency rights, because we no longer have public funds at our disposal, the majority of people with disabilities have consensually supported this law. However, when this law came into the National Assembly, the competent Legislative and Legal Service not only abstained from reviewing this law and its compliance with the Constitution and the legislation, but also crossed this line and went into defining disability protection and disability organisations in the field of civil society. Here there were four or five major errors, which are also the reason why the State Council imposed a procrastination veto on this law. It is a abandonment of a definition which has already been in law and harmonised at the level of the Government that the suspension of appropriate adjustments is a discriminatory act. This is one of the key issues of modern state, disability policy at the EU level. The other thing is how disabled people vote for their representatives. There are now two mistakes in marriage. The first is based on abandonment of the principle of volunteerism, which is now so defined that in fact it obliges all disabled organisations to participate, even though the whole system from the Constitution is built down on the voluntary maintenance and functioning of disabled organisations. The second principle, which was abandoned or undermined here, is the principle of the autonomy of civil society, because people with disabilities in civil society are completely autonomous under our constitution and system-wide legislation, how they elect their representatives, and the law cannot prescribe criteria for such conduct. The Council for Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Slovenia has insufficient competence with regard to the obligation of the Slovenian State to implement and control the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, since Article 33 of this Convention, which Slovenia has of course adopted and is valid for us, commits the State to establish an independent body in this area which has approximately the same attributes as the Ombudsman. A representative of disabled companies was excluded from this body, although this is a very important segment of the real economic sector in Slovenia. For example, I can tell you that all employees in disabled companies represent approximately the size of three Preventions. Why the legislative and legal service argued that this must be eliminated is incomprehensible, because those persons with disabilities who are integrated into the real working and social environment do not, of course, need any representation through disabled companies. Finally, I would like to mention public procurement for the deaf and deaf centre. This is a way that will bring substantially higher costs and should use a more rational form. Dear Members and Members! I ask you, on behalf of the Slovenian disabled, to vote in such a way that these mistakes will be settled within the Slovenian parliamentary system. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Shustrich. The request for re-decision was addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All of you, welcome back! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 21st emergency meeting on 10. 11. 2010 addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, submitted by the Government to the Assembly and adopted at its 21st session. Ten. 2010 The Committee was attended by motions for a request, representatives of the Government and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee has received the following materials: the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and comments to the Government's opinion on the request that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is not defined in relation to the requirement under its powers, to justify the Council of State relating to substantive matters, but only to the statements of the Council of State which are of a legal nature, was presented by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service at the meeting of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Government, which was presented by the representative of the Government at the meeting of the Committee. It explains in more detail the reasons why the Government rejects the State Council’s individual arguments. In its opinion, the Government also agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which was presented on a proposal for a law. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for a re-decision on the law, followed by the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service presented further details to the representatives of the two bodies. In the short debate, the view was expressed that the law in question represented one of the most important laws in the field of disability protection, and it is therefore a shame that the adoption of the law comes to an end because of concerns about four articles which do not have a fatal impact on the very content of the law and on the rights conferred on persons with disabilities. In fact, the best solutions were sought between wishes and opportunities. The rejection of some proposed solutions is based on legal arguments that point to non-compliance with laws and the Constitution and the arguments against these warnings have not been substantiated in a similar manner. Following the debate, the Committee voted by seven votes to one with two votes against: the Disability Equalization Act is appropriate. The Committee did not adopt the proposed opinion by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the representative of the Government to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Dr. Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Šuštaršič! The government's position on the opinion of the Council of State has already been defined and also sent, so allow me to draw only a few points, in our opinion of the essential issues. The Equalization of Opportunities Act has had a lot of support in all stages of preparation, i.e. support for all interested groups, including disability organisations, until the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia has been registered with a small and not a large starting point in the legislative process. This was, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, due to the fact that not all representative and other disability organisations operating at national level are linked to the existing National Council of Disability Organisations. They should also be able to participate in the issues identified in the equalisation of opportunities for people with disabilities. The law is comprehensive and consistent in its content, complements the rule of law in the field of disability and contributes significantly to the elimination of situations that discriminate against persons with disabilities. At the same time, measures to equalise the possibilities of disabled persons will also eliminate so-called grey foxes in the area of overcoming obstacles in the integration into the society of disabled persons with sensory disabilities or severely disabled persons. In addition, it ensures co-financing of the implementation of specific social programmes and call centre for deaf people, which enable people with disabilities to become more socially involved or complement the offer of public services. We believe that the reasons for the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for re-decision on the law are not justified. In every respect, the law improves the lives of people with disabilities and creates equal opportunities for their integration in all areas of life and would cause harm to people with disabilities. Thus, we see a central dilemma in deciding whether this law will improve disability protection for the benefit of persons with disabilities, which it also guarantees, or whether we will maintain the exclusive role of the current National Council of Disabled Organizations, which does not include, as it is said, all those working in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Despite some reasoned and justified comments and criticisms from the Slovenian National Council of the Disabled Organisation in the Slovenian National Party, in principle we support the proposal for a law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons, even though some are not fully satisfied with the proposed law as a whole and have reasonable comments and concerns in certain details or in certain articles. Finally, after a thorough debate in the parliamentary group, we decided that we would vote each on our conscience, because some of the comments, as I mentioned, are quite justified. Some inconsistencies, loose timings, lack of accessibility of services for persons with disabilities, as well as comprehensive shortcomings in the fight against discrimination against persons with disabilities are mentioned. It is possible to discuss this and even to argue, to justify the reasons, because the fact is that it is virtually impossible to write a law that no one could find fault or inadequacy. However, the purpose and purpose of the law are good, especially if I point out only Article 6, which explicitly defines the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities before the public authorities, the authorities of the local government and the operators of public powers and services. The law itself includes various measures to equalise the possibility of disabled persons in particular with regard to the provision of technical tools to overcome obstacles in the environment. Measures to equalise the capacity of persons with disabilities first highlight the right to co-financing of communication barriers devices, to pay the costs of adapting the vehicle and to establish a call centre for deaf and deaf persons. Disability is a group that is still exposed to a certain degree of discrimination in a certain environment, and I therefore believe that, inter alia, criminal provisions have great importance in respect of the legal provisions and therefore in order to effectively prevent the elimination of discrimination, all in order to ensure equal opportunities for persons with disabilities in all areas of life. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs promises to co-finance from the State budget the implementation of specific social programmes that enable people with disabilities to become more socially involved or complement the offer of public services. In particular, programmes will be co-financed to enable more independent living for people with disabilities who enable the active life and work of persons with disabilities who provide psychosocial assistance to disabled persons and their families, advocacy and self-help programmes and so on. In short, there are many positive solutions to this law. We certainly consider this to be very positive in the Slovenian National Party. We can say with a clear conscience that in Slovenia we are aware of the commitments made to us by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, even if we think that 7% to 9% of the people living in Slovenia, who are such or different types of people with disabilities, and we can say that the attitude towards persons with disabilities in Slovenia generally changes in a positive direction. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, as I said, we will vote in our conscience, and I hope that all fellow Members from the Slovenian National Party will join my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities Act because it brings a number of good solutions for better quality lives for people with disabilities, their easier integration into labour and educational processes, and also sets the framework for combating all forms of discrimination against persons with disabilities. The Council of State has vetoed the amendments adopted by the National Assembly, which are intended to substantially change the concept and purpose of the law. In the LDS, we believe that the purpose and solutions in the law have not been substantially changed, but as a legislative body we were unable to overlook the opinions and comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in its opinion warned the National Assembly of some inappropriate solutions in the law that need to be rectified. Several amendments were therefore adopted, but they did not significantly interfere with the substantive solutions of the law, which was also supported by disabled organisations. Let me re-emphasize some of the substantive solutions in the law for which we will support it in the LDS, and we want it to enter into force as soon as possible. In Slovenia, it is estimated that between 7% and 9% of the population, who are disabled and because disability affects the lives of families and relatives, means that every day more people are affected by disability. Discrimination against persons with disabilities or persons with disabilities occurred either in secret or in front of everyone, sometimes so rooted that other citizens are not even noticed, as it is conditioned that society is fully adapted to an average citizen who does not know the limitations of disability. Effective elimination of discrimination requires adequate legislation, and only this, together with awareness and the necessary attention of state and non-governmental organisations, gives Slovenia the opportunity to become a longer-term more friendly society for people with disabilities and to ensure equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for persons with disabilities. The law prohibits discrimination before public authorities and local authorities, public authorities and services, and allows the equal participation of persons with disabilities in all proceedings, i.e. assistance in the courts, in proceedings before other authorities, there is a prohibition on writing which discriminates against persons with disabilities and regulates the right to enter into inclusive life, education, cultural goods, mode of residence, information, public transport and the like. Disabled persons with sensory disabilities, i.e. blind, visually impaired, deaf, deaf, deaf, and disabled persons with speech and multiple disorders who need devices to overcome communication barriers, will be allowed to co-finance devices by law. The law also clearly regulates the procedures for the financing and technical adaptation of vehicles and defines the necessary adaptations in public transport to facilitate mobility of disabled persons. A very important result of the law will be the establishment of a call centre for deaf and deaf people, which will enable hearing impaired people to obtain different information about the work of public and local authorities, public authorities and public services and public services. Equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities will help to raise employment rates and integrate into education. This is also the only reliable way in the long term to prevent the exclusion of people with disabilities from society, and to reduce the risk of poverty, which is significantly higher among people with disabilities than in the rest of the population. The adoption of the law is a positive step forward in improving the situation in the area of ensuring equal opportunities for people with disabilities, and we support it in the LDS and we will vote for it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of re-decision on one of the very important laws governing the situation of persons with disabilities, their protection and their insurance. The law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities brings a lot of positive content, as we have heard in several places today. In carefully weighing the arguments for and against, we felt that the law needed to be confirmed. A lot of things have already been said, I wouldn't repeat them all. It is the elimination of those basic grey foxes that have now emerged in the field of communication barriers, a better position on the discriminatory nature of the previous regime, better inclusion of disabled persons and so on, that I will not repeat all the arguments presented by the interlocutors. At the same time, we are somewhat sad that there has only been a lack of overcoming the comments of the National Council of Disability Organisations. Many of these have also been justified, some are more formalistic, legal, and some are not; but if we weigh positive and eventual weaknesses, in fact, our view is that, as such, the law must be supported as a result of everything it brings us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At the outset of the SD Group's position, I would like to point out that when adopting the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, both on the part of the Government and on the part of Members and Members, there is a great deal of attention to the desire to adopt it as soon as possible and to provide a legal framework for ensuring equal opportunities for persons with disabilities in all areas of life. We have estimated that Slovenia needs a law that will take a comprehensive and systematic approach to eliminating and preventing discrimination based on disability. The text of the proposal for a law on the equalisation of persons with disabilities prepared by the Government was based on a dialogue with representatives of disabled organisations and persons with disabilities, which is also recognised by the applicants for a re-decision on the law. We have also made every effort to hear the comments and suggestions of the disabled representatives when considering the proposal in the National Assembly. In doing so, we have sought the greatest possible measure of compromise with regard to the possible measures that we have sought to incorporate into the proposal for a law and, on the other hand, to take into account the limitations imposed by the socio-economic conditions and the legal framework of our country's operation. As we are aware of the importance of the law that we have been waiting for so long, we have also adopted it by Members and Members of the Assembly in the third reading. In doing so, we have stressed that the law on the equalization of the opportunities of persons with disabilities as a result of a number of compromises and legal restrictions does not constitute an ideal solution, but it is an important step forward for the better implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities in all areas of life and their more equal integration into society. All right, for this reason, I regret that the adoption of this, for persons with disabilities of such an important law, is delayed by veto at points that are not sufficiently justified and are, in the opinion of the Government and the Legal Service of the National Assembly, therefore, questionable in terms of the assessment of compliance with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Council of State reasons for requesting that the National Assembly re-decision on the law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons be based on four provisions of the law, none of which directly relate to measures to ensure the rights of persons with disabilities brought about by law. I believe that we have shown both personal and political sensitivity to the needs of persons with disabilities, support for efforts to eliminate their discrimination and the will to enable them to be as involved in society as possible. Such a law is needed both by persons with disabilities and by Slovenian society in their efforts to maximize the enjoyment of human rights. In the SD Group, we believe that the law on the equalization of the possibility of persons with disabilities, even though it includes certain compromise solutions, should not, in deciding again on its appropriateness, run into obstacles that would prevent its implementation, especially because the validity of the professional concerns expressed by the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service is not to be overlooked by such Members when considering the law. We therefore reaffirm in the Group of Social Democrats that the Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u16	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that in the area covered by the proposed law, it is essential to adopt better solutions than is currently the case, but the dictated law does not solve the problem in a way that is acceptable to most disabled organisations. Therefore, the Council of State has adopted a procrastination veto on this law on the grounds that the basic problem of the law on the equalization of the opportunities of persons with disabilities constitutes a significant gap between the content referred to in the title of the law and the actual content of the law, namely that it defines positive solutions in favour of persons with disabilities to a rather limited extent. On the basis of the position of most disabled organisations, the Council of State also held the view that before the amendment of the coalition was tabled, the proposal was acceptable to most disabled organisations because the law was aligned with them. However, following the adoption of the amendments in the second reading by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and at the plenary session of the National Assembly, the amendments adopted significantly changed the concept of law. This is also a key reason to oppose the proposed law or the procrastination veto of the Council of State to this law. Therefore, these are the main reasons why we will not impose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it has re-examined itself, and I reiterate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not listen to and disregards those who are being treated by this law, but reiterates its insistence on a poorly prepared law which, according to our assessment, will solve the issue in half, instead of listening to the disability organisations and proposing legislation that would be written on the skin of those who are being treated by the law in question and are disabled. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Parties, we estimate that the comments of our parliamentary group were valid when we adopt this law through parliamentary procedure, and since the Government and the coalition have overheared them, we will oppose this law, with the sad conclusion that the disabled who are still in need cannot be satisfied again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that this government will remember before the end of its mandate and will also take into account the social partners and those groups of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to which the law relates.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are here because the Council of State has accepted a request to re-judge the Disability Equalization Act. As a basic problem, the State Council cites an excessive gap between the content and the title of the law, which should define positive solutions for the benefit of persons with disabilities to a much reduced extent. We will not repeat the arguments already put forward by the State Council in our presentation of the position in the Res-New Policy Group. In this presentation of our position, we will reiterate the decision which is contrary to the decision of the Council of State, irrespective of the repeated position expressed during the previous consideration of the bill, to repeat the basic advantages of the law and the reasons for its reconfirmation. According to our assessment, the law in the first place adequately regulates the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities. It complements existing legislation with its content, which contributes to a more comprehensive approach to eliminating and preventing discrimination based on disability. The broad debate on its content, its importance and sometimes discontent was held both at the hearing of the home working body and at the 20th and 21st regular meetings of the National Assembly. I reiterate that the debaters at the time tried to take into account as many well-intentioned proposals as possible, both by the disabled organisations and by the representatives of equal opportunities and, of course, by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, we can agree that the scope of the debate has given rise to doubts as to the quality of the preparation of the content of the law and its basic solutions and the objectives towards maximum proper regulation of the area prepared at the relevant professional points or under pressure of illegal and partial interests, but in the end, I can safely argue that in our Group we believe that the law is well-intentioned and beneficial to the disabled, irrespective of the doubts we have expressed and the pressures we have received. And it is the disabled as individuals, not just a disability organization as an institution, that in short, the disabled as individuals and their benefits lead us to reaffirm this law. The solutions to the law are welcome to define precisely the duties they have in preventing discrimination between countries, local communities and others. The key task of the law is to systematically prevent discrimination on the one hand and to promote equal treatment on the other. On the other hand, the veto voted on the law and all the controversy that has taken place in the past clearly suggests the need for complex approaches and different starting points to regulate this area. We therefore rely on the assumption that the environment is unadapted and not accessible, which is the reason why people with disabilities are placed in an unequal position, but not on the disadvantage of the disabled to the environment. Despite the hope that the law will be reconfirmed, the fact that there is still a great deal of effort ahead of us and a great step from medical understanding to the social part of solving the disability problem remains. This is the only way we will follow the principle of inclusiveness and individual approach. In the Parliamentary Group, we will, as we say, back up the proposal for a law. We believe it's written on the skin of those we're dealing with. It may not be written on the skin to those who represent these matters based on the assumption that the problem will begin to be solved. Active participation in all the necessary further discussions on better regulation of this area, including all the departments of the field covered by the issue in question, is of course necessary in our opinion. We repeat, however, that the first contact with state institutions is very early, already in the child welfare phase, later in school, so it is also necessary, or above all, to take those first steps that will shift understanding of the problem of disabled people from medical to social understanding. If not, they will remain in a vicious circle of dependence on the help of those who can abuse their trust and dependence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! Initially, I am obliged to say that a wide-ranging Slovenian public was involved in the preparation of the Law on Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. The result of this cooperation was the compromise text of the bill, which did not cover all expectations of Slovenian disabled people, but agreed to a compromise solution, taking into account the economic and social circumstances of Slovenian society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also supported the law on a regular basis, as it was prepared in the direction of amendments, as requested by the disabled and in accordance with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Based on the vote of 26. Ten. At the 3rd vote, 54 MEPs and Members voted "yes" and no "against" in 2010. The position of the Slovenian People's Party is the same as in the third reading vote. We estimate that the proposal for a law is, however, a step towards improving the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities. This allows them to participate equally in society, to create a career and, thirdly, to integrate them equally into political and other social activities. In our second reading on the home working body, we have proposed an amendment to Article 19 to simplify the procedure for obtaining disability benefits and to point out the irregularity and inadmissibility of the provision for social work centres to choose and at the same time issue decisions on aids. Our amendment made sense was also summarized and respected. The Personal Assistance Act – which is why I mention it – I mention it because it speaks of aids – is in the normative part of the government for 2010. The public hearing of this law has already been concluded and the law is due to be forwarded to the National Assembly this summer, but this summer is over, so the government is late. The proposal, as I have already mentioned, provides, inter alia, for personal assistance services intended for assistance and escort, both for education and for assistants in the workplace, for assistants in other activities and activities in which disabled persons will be actively involved. Clearly, then, the law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons is inconsistent with the representatives of disabled persons and their organisations in a smaller area in which the State Council has pointed out. Otherwise, we know this rule: two lawyers, three opinions. In short, it would be appropriate for the Ministry or Government, if not, to reconcile all these comments, but in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that if the law were not confirmed, would bring more harm than good to our disabled and disabled people in Slovenia. Therefore, once again, in the Slovenian People's Party we will vote in accordance with the vote, as we voted in the third reading of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and in the case of the vote, no one has voted against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In re-decision on the proposal for a law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons, the position of the DeSUS Group is the same as that of the previous one, so we will also support it in this vote. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law needs to be understood as a major step forward in efforts to ensure and apply equal opportunities for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life. It is very important that we are aware that this law entails a prohibition of discrimination based on disability and by establishing in the law those measures aimed at equalising the opportunities of persons with disabilities, a framework for society as a whole. The Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities generally touches all areas of social life, where treatment of persons with disabilities must be particularly careful. It is clear, of course, that it is meant as a general umbrella law, since other sectoral rules are also important to the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of equalizing the possibility of equal enjoyment of human rights. This law brings many new and good solutions to people with disabilities and, of course, to their loved ones, because they must all face very different obstacles, which do not allow equal and quality integration of persons with disabilities into everyday life. The Council of State rejects the law on the basis and reasons that were exposed to the course of the examination of the law itself and on which the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was clearly expressed, which was also taken into account in the drafting of the final and adopted text of the law. Therefore, the findings of the State Council’s rejection of the law are unfounded in a legal sense. Accordingly, the DeSUS Group will once again support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on that law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus, at the same time remind you that the majority of members of the assembly shall vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 9. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. AND 18. It's a day's work. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will make a joint introductory presentation, within the framework of the 17th and 18th agenda items, on the proposal for amendments to the 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and on the supplementary proposal for the 2012 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for amending the budget and the supplementary draft budget was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give you a brief presentation first of the draft amendments to the 2011 state budget. This budget has already been adopted by the High Council, but in a very high amount, given the public financial inflows, and this needs to be harmonised now and we propose that we do this before the start of the year, it is not with a rebalancing, but with a revised budget. The State budget for 2011 was adopted at the end of 2009 at substantially different macroeconomic starting points and, in particular, at a significantly different fiscal capacity of the State budget. The public financial situation, in which Slovenia, and mainly due to the financial crisis, has significantly reduced our public financial revenues, tax revenues will also be lower in 2011 than those collected in 2008, and what with 920 million euros, I repeat, 920 million euros will have less tax revenues than we had in 2008. I cannot help but overlook the fact that the lower fiscal revenues in addition to the crisis have been affected by the last tax reform, and this time I cannot help but overlook the fact that the reduced fiscal capacity did not follow the relevant structural reform. Nevertheless, we have two taxes, which are strongly influenced by the economic cycle, which is the corporate income tax and income tax, part of the income also derives from the results of business activity and with the rise of the economic cycle is also expected to improve here, so that the economic situation improves, however, the public financial situation is strongly improved. The budget deficit as a difference between the revenue and expenditure of the state budget in 2010 is estimated to be 1.8 billion euros or 4.9 gross domestic product, and in 2011, the budget deficit, in line with the budget changes submitted, will decrease by 0.4% of gross domestic product to 4.5% of GDP and will be added by 0.9% in 2012 and 3.6% of GDP. The budget revenue will amount to €8.3 billion, which is half a billion less than the planned revenue after the approved budget and €0.3% more than the estimated implementation of total budgetary revenue in 2010. The expenditure of the state budget will amount to €10 billion in 2011, which is 400 million less than in the approved budget, so we expect to save €400 million in the revised budget. In doing so, all categories of expenditure are reduced. The autumn forecast of the economic trends of Umarja is slightly more encouraging than the spring, economic growth is expected to be 0.9% this year, which is 0.6% above the spring forecast. Economic growth will increase to 2.5% in 2011. The labour market situation is adjusted with a time delay, so in 2011 Umar expects only their calming rather than a substantial improvement. In forecasting revenue for 2011 and 2012, we were based on an assessment of the actual realisation of this year's revenue, taking into account Umar's autumn forecasts, taking into account the assessment and accepted changes in the tax system. The estimate of the realisation of this year's revenues is around €70 million lower than the estimate at the time of the rebalancing. The biggest differences in income are lower by €28 million, mainly due to higher returns of income after the annual calculation and greater impact at the beginning of the year of additional tax reliefs introduced than planned. The changes are also, or deterioration is, in value added tax, less tax and tax on motor vehicles by €18 million for 15 million. There are also lower estimates of revenue from the European Union budget for 12 million euros. On the other hand, the 2010 non-tax revenue estimate is 11 million euros higher than the assessment at the time of the rebalancing, mainly due to higher realised revenues from Russia's clearing debt. In the Draft Amendments to the Republic of Slovenia for 2011, we are planning EUR 8 billion 329 million in revenue, including EUR 6 billion 766 million in tax revenue, EUR 469 million in non-tax revenue, EUR 35 million in capital income, donations and transfer revenue, and EUR 59 million in the European Union budget. The trend in the share of tax revenue in gross domestic product over the period 2007-2012 shows the impact of the economic cycle on tax revenues. During the period of high economic growth, there were slightly more revenues and in 2009, when the economic shift occurred, the share of tax revenues in GDP decreased by 20.7% to 17,8% or by almost 3 percentage points. On the income side of the State budget, it must first be stressed that there is quite a bit of a novelty in the past year. We have taken the preparation of the so-called programme budget very seriously, so you may first be surprised and surprised at the listing and review of this year's budget documents. In particular, there are differences in explanations. Much effort has been made to set goals and indicators. We are aware that everything is certainly not yet perfect this year, but progress has certainly been made that we will have to build on in the coming. All countries that have already undertaken the so-called programme budget have taken years to fully implement, and we too will not be an exception. However, the basis is laid for decisions in the future, what and how much to finance with public money, even when a programme is to be abolished, easier and more transparent. The expenditure of the State budget is divided into 16 development and state-of-the-art policies, and through these policies the priorities of this country are expressed and expressed. I am pleased to say that social security is still the highest priority of this government, and of course our entire country. The highest share of government budget expenditure is also earmarked in 2011 for social security policy, namely €2.5 billion. The increase in expenditure compared to 2008, says ahead of the crisis year, shows that the most significant increase in social security expenditure is €430 million or 21%. This shows that despite the measures envisaged – and it should be stressed that these measures do not affect the rights themselves, but only growth – Slovenia still retains as a social state. In order for Slovenia to remain a social state, it is necessary to strengthen our economy and enable it to compete better, and our citizens to have good and quality knowledge to do so. Expenditure devoted to higher education policy, science, technology and the information society is increasing by 220 million euros in 2011 or by 45% compared to 2008. So here's the incentive for developmental conversion. In 2011, we will spend €707 million on this policy. At the same time, the funds for entrepreneurship and competitiveness policy increase by 44% in 2011 compared to 2008. This will provide €370 million for this policy in 2011, totalling €77 million or a good 3% of gross domestic product for both development priority policies. In 2011, when compared to 2010, budget expenditure to the labour market policy is reduced, which is a logical consequence of the withdrawal of anti-crisis measures, yet the funds for this purpose increase by EUR 191 million or by 100 % compared to 2008. In 2011, these funds will amount to €379 million. The funding for education and sport policies is also increasing by €60 million in 2008 and transport and transport infrastructure policies by like 60 million or 10%. According to my assessment, we have found the right balance between social and development programmes, and this balance is necessary for Slovenia to find its way out of the crisis and to come out of it better and stronger. Ladies and gentlemen. At this time of the budget, most of the above-mentioned words fly to the measures necessary for the state budget to be managed both socially and developmentally. I have already mentioned that, with the proposal of the intervention law, we are not abolishing any rights acquired, but we are limiting their growth for this year, which will be the year of savings. It is probably right that all recipients of public funds are involved in saving. Once again, I would like it to be repeated that we do not take any rights and lower them; only growth that cannot be financed is limited. Finally, let me stress once again that the budgets ahead of you are a compromise between the social and developmental deficits to reduce the budget deficit, which will amount to 4.5% in 2011 and 3.6% of GDP in 2012 in order to reduce public debt servicing costs through a lower budget deficit. Once again, the measures included in the national budgets do not abolish any of the rights acquired. If I summarise the Complementary Proposal for the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, then I must say that it is prepared in accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The main difference between the initial draft budget for 2012 and the 2012 supplementary draft budget relates to a minor change in the programming classification of expenditure and the provision of additional resources for the ongoing implementation of RTV activities for national communities. In the programme classification of expenditure, policy 13 – National security, defence and foreign affairs – sub-programme 130201 is amended to include the core tasks of the police. A change of title is proposed to comply with the Police Act. The total amount of expenditure planned in the financial plan of the Nationality Office of the Government of Slovenia is increased by EUR 300,000 by the 2012 supplementary draft budget compared to the original draft budget, and the increase is intended for the ongoing implementation of RTV activities for national communities. In this way, the Government makes sense of summarizing the Commission's amendment to the national community, following the objective of supporting the indigenous minorities and thus contributing to the existence and development of national communities. As a result of this increase, the original planned reserves in the Ministry of Finance’s financial plan shall be reduced by the same amount. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the budgets adopted at a rather difficult stage in dealing with the consequences of the crisis will support and enable the continuation of the developmental transformation and the maintenance of the social cohesion of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the ministers and ministers present here whether anyone wants to complement the explanation of the budget. No, no, no. I conclude the presentation of the government's views. The draft amendments to the 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 budget of the Republic of Slovenia were considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor first to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bogdan Čepić, to present the report of the Committee on the Draft amending the Budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft amendments to the 2011 State budget as a work force at its 30th emergency meeting. 11. 2010 The Committee was briefed by the following interested working bodies: the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Transport, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Commission on Public Finance, the Committee on Environment and Space, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, the Commission on National Community Relations, the Commission on Relations with Slovenians in Exchange and World Affairs and the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. During the course of business, the amendments were submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group to various users to reduce individual sub-programmes within these users; the Social Democrats' Group, Zares and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to various users to increase individual sub-programmes within these users and to users by the Ministry of Finance to increase the sub-programme of Pensions; the Democratic Party of Pensions of Slovenia's Group to increase the sub-programme of Pensions; the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group to the User of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the sub-programme of Support for NGOs and civil society; and the Commission for National Communities to increase the sub-programme of Support for NGOs and civil society. The Committee was also given a written opinion by the Council of Justice, which does not support the proposal for amending the budget, as funds are foreseen for the functioning of the Court and the Council of Justice, according to its assessment of the understatement. The Committee was informed of a letter from the Union of Disabled Persons of Slovenia proposing to maintain the level of the budget line Promoting the employment of unemployed persons for 2011 at the same level as in 2010. Interested labour bodies, with the exception of the Commission for the National Communities, have not formulated their amendments and have adopted individual positions and conclusions which are reflected in their opinions. The Committee did not discuss the content of the proposed budget changes and identified itself to the amendments tabled. Pursuant to Article 166(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also adopted its amendment to the user of the National Election Commission to increase the sub-programme of activities of political institutions by EUR 3 million and the resources are provided by reducing the sub-programme of the European Union budget of the Ministry of Finance. The amendment provides the means to implement the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which will take place on 12 December 2010. The National Election Commission for the implementation of the referendum in 2011 does not have sufficient resources. In the context of the consideration of individual amendments, the Committee supported the two amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Res. and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which allow for the harmonisation of social transfers, pensions and salaries of public servants by 25% in 2011 as provided for in the laws governing this area and the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. However, he did not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the amendment of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, which would allow for the coordination of only 50% pensions and the amendment of the Commission for National Communities. The representative of the proposed committee orally took note of the position of the proposer on individual amendments, with the Government supporting the two amendments of the three coalition groups, supporting the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Parliamentary Group, but not supporting the amendment of the Commission for National Communities, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Ambassadors and does not support the amendment of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer drew attention to the necessary editorial correction of the sub-programme title 13.020 Basic police activity, which should be properly addressed by the Basic Police Tasks. It was proposed that this correction should be made in the preparation of the final text or the original of the budget amendments. The Committee did not object to such a proposal to implement the necessary amendment to the sub-programme title.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Renati Brunskole's Committee member to present the report of the Committee to the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear government representatives, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Committee considered the complementary draft State budget for 2012 as a working body at its 29th emergency meeting on 12 November 2010. During the business period, the amendments submitted the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to various users to reduce individual sub-programmes under these users by a total amount of EUR 181 million 260 000 944 and consequently to reduce the deficit, as well as the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons Group 1611, Ministry of Finance, to increase sub-programme 100301 Pensions by EUR 27 million 234 000 8. The Committee did not discuss the content of the supplementary draft budget and identified itself until both amendments were tabled. The representative of the proposer orally informed the Committee of the position of the proposer on both amendments, and the Government of the amendments does not support them because it considers them inappropriate. Within the framework of the definition of individual amendments, the Committee did not support any of the amendments tabled to the 2012 Supplemental Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Mag has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the budget, especially if we are talking on the one hand about change then the view forward for 2012, is certainly a key and important thing for this country. It is mainly marked and is due to the changed economic situation and thus to a reduced inflow of tax and other resources into the budget. As a result, savings or reductions are needed mainly on the expenditure side, and it is necessary to be honest and honest and to recognise that, already in the preparation of the 2011 budget, fiscal revenues should be stricter and budget revenues should be better planned, as well as expenditure, all in a simple, simple objective of pursuing fiscal consolidation. Of course, obviously at that time we were not fully aware of the depth and, above all, the longevity of the crisis, because it was a question and a dilemma that the whole world was dealing with. The 2011 and 2012 budgets are therefore cost-effective in the first place. In our view, they are going in the right direction in view of the public financial situation, as they are reducing the budget deficit at one stop and thus the budget deficit. Thus, the budget deficit in 2010 is projected to be €1.8 billion or 4.9% of GDP, while in the coming year it will be reduced by 0.4% of GDP or 4.5% of GDP. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we would also like to commend the Government's efforts to reduce the expenditure of the state budget by more than €350 million with the proposed changes in the year ahead. That the budget is cost-effective also proves a reduction in expenditure on so-called non-development items, while investment funds themselves are increasing despite the crisis. As we have repeatedly pointed out in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the very structure of the budget, which in our view is too rigid and too inflexible for a crisis situation, is not allowing much room for manoeuvre due to legal obligations. At the same time, it will also be necessary to think in the future about possible new crises, as well as non-crisis times, where they could respond more quickly and more effectively to the challenges posed tomorrow. Therefore, we also believe that it is necessary to stop repeating the already well-known fact that in the past the opportunities were missed when the tax reform did not restructure the expenditure part of the budget. We need to ask ourselves key questions about how to move forward and seek solutions. And that is exactly what the current government is now speeding up, even though for these purposes at a very unpleasant and unfavourable time. If we go through a review of the 2011 budget structure, we find that the main trend is a strong fall in the revenue of the state budget, which is due to the fall in gross domestic product. If the 2010 revenue estimate is around €8 billion, the 2011 budget changes will cut the revenue from the projected 8.8 billion euros to the projected 8.3 billion, while at the same time spending of €10 billion will be projected in the budget with strong savings. This continues to result in a relatively high budget deficit of €1.7 billion, representing 4.5% of GDP, resulting in a debt of around €3 billion in 2011. On the revenue side, the maximum deviations from the planned are projected for corporate income and income tax and for around 100 million for income from other taxes on goods and services. Indeed, the Government is saving, and data also show that at the current expenditure item, the funds are falling by around 150 million euros, mostly on the wage item and on the expenditure on goods and services, as well as on transfers to public institutions. At the same time, it is important to stress that social security transfers are increasing by up to €75 million, which proves that the country still cares about the safety of citizens at all times of crisis, despite the reduction of investment expenditure. For around €185 million, so-called investment incomes increase by more than 120 million in terms of the 2010 implementation assessment. A rather similar picture as for 2011 does not show us in 2012 where the planned revenues are slightly higher, which is expected to result in 3.1% of real GDP growth, and in 2012 the expenditure side increases by around 100 million, where increases are mainly seen in investment expenditure, which is also part of the promotion of economic growth. Thus, €361 million is allocated for new constructions, reconstructions, adaptations in 2012, an increase of almost 100 million euros over the previous year. In the B balance sheet, the biggest changes are noticeable in 2011 for the given loans and the increase in capital shares, namely an increase of around 400 million, mostly for loans abroad, amounting to 140 million euros, and an increase in capital shares in state-owned companies, from the current modest 40 million to the estimated 250 million euro. However, as regards the substantive changes in the 2011 budget, we are pleased and welcome the improvements in the direction of increasing funds for entrepreneurship, for competitiveness, for an additional €73 million, which is not a small amount of money in these times, and it is particularly encouraging to increase funds for the business environment for entrepreneurship and competitiveness. However, we are a little less excited about the fact that funds are being cut on the items to promote growth and the development of businesses. However, for the purpose of fostering the development of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, funds in the B balance sheet are greatly increasing, with an additional €400 million planned by amending the budget. We also share in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club the general direction of the Government that it is necessary to ensure the conditions for the successful establishment of companies, and it is also important that the Government also by budgetary means promotes investment in those healthy companies that are the bearer and driver of the future development of Slovenia. All too much, despite the alarming developments in individual companies, we pay attention to those who are unlikely to have more opportunities for long-term growth and development, and in particular do not create enough added value to compete in the global economy. Even if we look at the environment we are part of, this Europe, we must be aware of the simple facts that we are getting more and more caught up in the rapid growth of the Asian economy, not mainly or because of the cheap labour force, but because of catching up and overtaking us, which is worrying, in the technological and innovation field. Therefore, in order to ensure both a social state and our standard of living, it is essential to realize that companies are the ones that maintain and enable this social state. And if we go back to the budget, we can express less satisfaction with the 2012 budget, because in the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, the funds are falling by around 100 million euros. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that this is due to the reduction of rights arising from the use of European funds, but we believe that the Ministry and the whole Government must provide additional ways or additional routes of access to financial resources as soon as possible; in particular, for the development of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, we consider entrepreneurship and competitiveness to be a key item. In the area of higher education, science and technology in 2011, we cannot also be satisfied with the reduction of items, but in this real development policy, resources in 2011 remain at a much higher level than in the years before the crisis, with €700 million projected for the next year, while in 2009 we allocated around €620 million to this. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we also believe that there is a need for further efforts to be made to reform higher education as well as to work more on the so-called soft non-budgetary content. We are even more concerned about the planned expenditure in 2012, as resources for scientific and research activities and technology projects are significantly decreasing, which is not good in our opinion, but we are aware that we do not have much choice or other options. The significant decline in resources is to be seen in education and sport and in transport policy. For the next year, resources for investment in rail infrastructure and transport are thus being reduced, which is not encouraging if we are to achieve mobility objectives and reduce environmental impacts on one hand, as well as to pursue the necessary economic objectives through the development of rail infrastructure. Otherwise, the 2012 budget increases investment in rail infrastructure, but it is also necessary to ensure that the dynamics of the investments themselves are accelerated. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also highlight the problem of bus and coach transport, where resources are being cut down, which will further contribute to the increase on one side of passenger transport, which will certainly have a negative impact on the environment, and in particular on those who do not have their own means of transport, to further prevent greater mobility. We therefore call on the Government to re-examine and provide possible more appropriate solutions in this area. For 2012, there is also a significant increase in resources in the area of sustainable management with natural resources and the construction of environmental infrastructure, which is important and commendable, as these funds are largely linked to European funds, and we must be aware that they are time-bound and also limited. However, it is also important to stress that Slovenia also maintains a very high level of resources for the labour market and social security, totalling almost €3 billion, which represents almost a third of all budget expenditure. This proves that the Government and this coalition are fully aware of the importance of social security, particularly those most at risk in this country. Certainly, when these two budgets are adopted, the problems of coordination of social transfers, pensions and public sector wages cannot be avoided. These two budgets are inseparably linked to the intervention law, which currently provides for a quarterly coordination of all the categories mentioned above. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would like to make it clear that we are ready to support this quarter coordination if we have an equal relationship with all social groups. The comments, wishes and initiatives sent to Parliament by the party DeSUS and Slovenian pensioners are legitimate and justified for us, but unfortunately we are aware that something we do not have is not possible to share. For in Slovenia there are not only pensioners in a poor income position, although we are aware of their position, especially those with the lowest pensions and benefits. We are concerned that in a similar situation there is also a large number of unemployed, graduates waiting for their first job, and a large part of the middle class feel the crisis and their material situation is at risk. We ask what happens in this country and this country if we break intergenerational solidarity. If people, all of them, don't trust all the age categories in the system and we don't pay contributions, we turn to different forms of black work or avoid contributions through different forms of organizations, espionage. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the vast majority of pensioners also have their children and grandchildren who will have to pay for the pension and budget in the future in order to service the public debt that arises in these times of crisis. The question of great importance for all of us together is also whether we are really ready to place an additional burden on the already uncertain future for the generations to come and to ask, above all, who will be responsible for this. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware of the problems, the challenges of time and, above all, the responsibilities we bear at this time, and the fact that the crisis is much deeper and more persistent than we all anticipated at the very beginning. We therefore announce that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the two proposed budgets. Budgets must also coincide with the structural changes in our social environment, which we have certainly delayed for too long. These changes are essential if we are to pursue a higher, better quality of life in the future. Debt is only a short-term, transitional solution, which ultimately has to be paid dearly. The same is true of the budget, where interest-based expenditure already feeds on development resources, so we really need to cut down on unpopular and austerity measures in these times. Responsible, serious policy must be aware of the situation and be detached from high-flying words and move from words to actions. The policy itself as such and as a whole of all the parties in the National Assembly must take over part of their own guilt, that there is an increasing lack of confidence in the institutions of the country. It's time to ask ourselves what we can change to stop the erosion of trust in people and the country. It is necessary to stop cheap political accounting and to find the best, coordinated solutions as constructively as possible in these difficult times. We all hope for a better tomorrow, this one will certainly come, but it won't come by itself, so we all have to do something together if we don't want others and time not to get ahead of us. Surely all in Slovenia want to be a successful society with a high quality of life, with a quality education system, with well-paid jobs, if we want to be a society with a safe age and quality health care. Every other way, any different thinking from these goals and the abandonment of certain duties of reality do not lead us in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u32	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Good-bye, everybody! Let me say for the introduction that when we talk about budgets 2011 and 2012, we have, even if we don't say it, implicitly in mind some other laws and decrees that are directly related to this, and that we will talk about in the next few days in our Parliament. That is why I will also not resort to a method that lists the different numbers according to individual policies, according to individual projects, programmes, sub-programmes and so on, realizing that these numbers, even if they have been carefully prepared and recorded, will not remain unchanged for the next two years. More importantly, we are aware of some fundamental objectives and of the attitude of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Solidarity Group towards this, I will try to speak in a few sentences. First of all: what we must all be aware of, of course, is that we need to know a few more attention to both the revenue side and the policies on the expenditure side, in order not to make this big boom, this huge gap between revenue and between our budget expenditure further increases the deficit and public debt. Of course, no society and the state can afford this in the long run, and neither can the Republic of Slovenia. This will focus our thoughts and efforts and support when government action is needed. We are aware that when we are talking about the 2011 and 2012 budgets, we are actually talking about very big changes that are somehow targeted by these budgets. The beginning or announcement of these major changes was already in place when the exit strategy was written and when the budget memorandum was presented. That's about how we understand it. After a time or a time after which economic growth and social gross product have fallen, and when this has also been accompanied by a large decline in competitiveness, with an unfavourable business environment, there is a need to pay much more attention to this area. The period ahead of us, which is also drawn up by the two budgets we are talking about, is a period when we need to focus on increasing competitiveness, to strengthen our economy in very different ways – only by changing the tax environment will this certainly not be the case, nor will it be the case that the tax environment will invariably improve. It will probably be necessary to say a word in the future about something that we do not really hope to touch today and is called value added tax. At least that is what we believe in our Group of Members. The strengthening of the economy, the strengthening of entrepreneurship, the strengthening of the competitive environment is primarily aimed at increasing investment in this way, so that we can provide more and better, better jobs with increased investment, so that we can create a technological breakthrough that will also allow for higher added value and everything that follows. If, on the one hand, we are to strengthen our economic situation and, on the other hand, we have to admit that in recent years — and also today — much attention is being paid to social cohesion. That's good, too. However, as regards social cohesion and the measures and the means to do so, it is also necessary to find the right measure, as this is not going on indefinitely so that the scissors do not spread too much. The trend of spending on social cohesion, to depreciate the many weaknesses that have proved to be the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in this area of depreciation, we will have to find another measure, not in this way, probably to reduce the resources needed to help individuals, but to reduce the mass of resources for this, which means that we have to provide as much momentum as possible on the other hand to enable the filling of all public treasures. So these budgets, which are now under consideration, are already quite specific about what we need to do in the area of social and other reforms. First of all, as far as the pension system is concerned, we believe in our Group of Members that we really need to tackle it, but we are skeptical of certain individual solutions and of the speed of implementation of the proposed solutions. However, we do not support any special, exclusive status of those who have come during the period when they obtain the status of pensioners, except those who are on the border or even below the poverty line. Therefore, we have already in recent years, and we are also today in favour of the view that there is a need to make a radical change in this area too, but, in particular, when it comes to intervention measures, we should be inclined not to be so linear as to affect everyone equally, but to have some threshold from which intervention and other measures on the quality of life of individuals on the brink of poverty should not be known. There are many who have the status of pensioners, but without any problems they can also bear the serious measures, the tightenings they are suggesting, and some will not be able to endure even the smallest, because they are already in a situation where their current lives are barely controlled or not anymore, as far as funding is concerned. Large structural installations in some other areas will also have to be built in future years or much earlier. While it is true that the budgetary memorandum pays the highest attention to the pension system, we also feel that some other systems are at least as important. Above all, we believe that everything that is a prerequisite for us to move into a society with a higher added value must be ensured. To do this, we probably need different jobs, we need more modern knowledge, a lot of research, a lot of innovation and transfer of technological achievements to the real sector, to the economy. So, in this area too, reforms will be needed, which will result in a much faster exit from the crisis situation we are now in, and which will not be unduly affected by those who need social assistance. We will also need, we are sure, a thorough reform or a change in the public administration system in our country; either it is what the measures now measure to get out of the crisis, or it is because the structure of the state, public administration, as well as a different organisation of the provincial and municipal self-government will have to be restructured. In these various measures, no one will be exempt from these various reforms. This will touch everyone, so we need to be more careful and more subtle when we think about those who are below the average or even at the level of the threat of their existing needs. Neither will the field of economy, economic operators. And we are confident that if we now advocate the need to enable the economy to achieve the best environment for resurgence, we will also have to talk in the future about how much this economy will return in the years to come, because too one-sided weighting of measures only on the shoulders of citizens and citizens will, of course, collapse social cohesion and will certainly have very unpleasant political consequences, if this is to be done. We will assess the success of the government's work and also of the coalitions, of all those who need to contribute to solving the difficult situation in which we are, according to the objectives set by the Government, in the reality that these goals will also be achieved, and of how the burden of achieving these goals will be distributed. We will be very careful in this regard to monitor the results of the Government's promise to stop further job losses as far as possible, so that it can create as much work as possible, remain people in a working situation, and help to create the new jobs that we still need. So the level of activity must be increased in our country, and this must also be addressed by the measures it is taking. Implementation of modern knowledge, research, innovation, increasing productivity, which can also carry higher incomes, higher wages and higher contributions to public treasury. This is one of the goals that we probably all follow and that we hope will be able to achieve. It is essential to put a stop to the decline in domestic demand, as we see at this moment that trends are negative, either in terms of consumption or demand of the domestic population or the country, and we hope that the high numbers that speak of increased exports and of high investment values are those that are real, because only these will be able to provide the least possible way out of the crisis. But I don't think it's time for us to talk about how we're going to get out of the crisis very successfully today, because there's a lot of those who are going to deprovilitate the measures and the situation once they've barely survived. As a result, we can also expect the consolidation of public finances, which, today, we see, is at the heart of all reflections and it is also right to think about it, but this consolidation of public finances depends most on how much we know to contribute to the increase of social product in our country. While we support Solidarity in the Group of Non-Related Members, the Government's fundamental orientations, when we support the basic objectives of the 2011 and 2012 budgets, we believe that it is right, however, to mention certain things that we do not fully agree with, let us also mention. Our first reading is an observation about linearity. We believe that it would be good if we could find such measures in the future that will actually put a greater strain on those who are able to bear the burden, and less or less not on those who are more sensitive to everything, including a small change. There are many of these in the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore counting on measures to be increasingly targeted, measured and that we will maintain this social cohesion, which we now have with great expenditure in the field of more passive policy. When we talk about these passive policy measures, we are also referring to measures that were not intended only for people who are employed or unemployed, even though they seem to be. A lot of resources have been allocated through different schemes, a lot of resources have been allocated through subsidisation of reduced working time, a lot of resources have also been allocated to waiting for work, which are also directly linked to our economy and we understand them as aid to the economy, so that it can sustain those worst moments and that it can start over with a new start. The heritage that the Government has inherited through these various measures and past events is not very encouraging. We know and repeat that in those better years that were delayed there were no reserves created, not only at the state level in terms of public finances, but also in the real economy there were no reserves created because there were probably too many thoughts focused on ownership consolidation and change and, of course, we also had a long way back. And those who feel this most today have contributed nothing at all. They're just the ones who have to bear the burden of these negative consequences. In the Group of Non-Related Members, Solidarity should say this for the conclusion that we will therefore support the proposed 2011 budget changes and the 2012 proposal, stressing that the amendments adopted on the labour force, the amendments that we support, and that we, too, have tried completely again to reduce the public financial deficit, which is the right objective, but in the wrong way, so do we. We will therefore support the general direction, monitor what will happen in the future, and expect that if the assessments recorded today are also recognised as not accurate enough to be able to remedy the consequences. Therefore, both draft budgets can count on the support of all three Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u33	Mr Laszlo Göncz has the floor on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! As I have pointed out several times in recent weeks, even in national communities or their members, we are aware of an extremely hot and unfriendly social situation, which is particularly difficult in terms of budget preparation and adoption. I would just like to emphasise that support for the 2011 draft amending budget and the 2012 supplementary draft budget, which could satisfy most of the stakeholders, including political actors, would be difficult to expect today. We also have some concerns in our parliamentary group about some of the items of general interest, which comes mainly from different interpretations to the resolution of the most important tasks in the areas of public finances, economies, social and some other areas related to the exit from the crisis, but we want to work constructively in changing these budgets. In this way, I express our conviction that, given the circumstances, the functioning of the State is particularly urgent and it is therefore important that the proposed budget for 2012 or the amended budget for 2011 be adopted. From the point of view of the delegation of indigenous national communities on the proposed budget, I would like to emphasise two; we are pleased that, despite the exceptional financial situation, the Government, except for the exceptions, which I will talk about, has kept the promise that the funds for the activities of the national communities will not be reduced nominally. Secondly, in the area of the most pressing issue, this is the provision of the already achieved level of RTV activities of the national communities, where the originally proposed amounts were reduced or too low and to such an extent they could not implement the programmes, the Government has shown its willingness to agree and thus we have managed to secure with the amendments, I will say, the minimum level of funding that programmes will still be able to implement. However, I would like to point out that, in the framework of the 2012 draft budget, there is a reduction in the amount of €66 000 in the Ministry of Culture for the purposes of implementing the cultural programme of indigenous national communities compared to the current year and 2011 for the purposes of implementing the cultural programme of indigenous national communities, which is a very large difference in our case. Unfortunately, the reduced amount will not be enough to carry out very important programmes in the field of culture, language conservation, artistic and amateur activities and so on, and we expect, as the Ministry's leadership has pointed out in the debate, that this problem is aware and that this problem will try to be resolved in cooperation with the national communities. There is also a percentage reduction in the amount in the area of security, I will say, a symbolic amount in support of the economic basic national communities, but because it is a complex issue, I will not go into this content now, but we expect the Government to be able to remedy matters in this area and also to supplement and transform matters in substance. Finally, let me stress once again that both budgets will be supported by both Members of our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed 2011 budget changes and the 2012 supplementary budget proposal are based on the projected trend in public financial revenues and the government's commitment to reducing the government's deficit below 3 % of gross domestic product by 2013. The government strategy is based on fiscal consolidation with a fiscal rule limiting expenditure growth and structural reforms in the area of the pension and health system and institutional reforms. Of course, because of the very high budgetary rigidity, the government is limited in reducing public spending. The legal obligations of the budget are already above 80% of the state budget. As a result, the government has already drawn up measures for 2010 that have reduced its 2010 budget commitments of EUR 400 million under the intervention law. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the additional legal obligations were due to the pre-election and other changes adopted by the previous government, amounting to almost EUR 400 million. As a result, a smaller room for anti-crisis action was available to the Government, for example, in 2004, as shown by the movement of the cyclically adjusted deficit and the increase in the share of legal obligations in the entire budget. The fact is that income without tax reform in 2010 would be higher by 3% of GDP or around 1.2 billion euros. While it is true that the economy has been burdened with tax reform and to a lesser extent the population, but they have had the richest tax reform since then, I can probably mention the so-called tycoons here. Of course, it is not a problem that the tax reform has burdened the economy, but the problem is that public financial expenditure has not been relatively reduced in the previous mandate. The increase in the expenditure of the consolidated public sector balance by 34% by 2008 in relation to 2004 and the increase in legal obligations has significantly reduced the manoeuvre for the government to operate during the crisis. The European Commission's report on the state of public finances shows that the former government has left the situation of public finances worse than it was handed over in 2004. Likewise, Virant's salary reform has twice as much impact as he predicted. The amount of funds needed to eliminate wage imbalances is 800 million and not 400 million, which the Government could not achieve because there is simply no place to take this money. Due to the commitment to reduce the deficit by savings, the amended proposal for a new intervention law limits legal rights in 2011 and 2012. Under the complementary intervention law, which provides for the quarterly coordination of pensions, social transfers and salaries of public servants, savings of €410 million will be possible. In doing so, it should be pointed out that if those measures were not adopted in the intervention law, this would require a reduction in investment investments or an end to the investment expenditure of the State budget, which means that the State would lose the mechanism to promote economic growth, jobs and indirect income to finance pensions, social transfers and salaries of public servants. The proposed quarterly coordination of pensions, social transfers by the Social Democrats' Group, Reale and LDS is a measure which, despite the gravity of the situational improvement in the social situation of these groups. In doing so, it must be stressed that the Government's proposal to freeze pensions, social transfers and public sector wages is no longer on the table, because as social Democrats we believe that social sensitivity to people in social distress must be maintained despite difficult times. The government has proposed a compromise that was not acceptable to our coalition partners for one coalition partner. If no compromise is reached, it would be perfectly normal to return to the original position, i.e. to freezing. We have decided differently in the parliamentary groups mentioned earlier. We are aware that the Government has found with difficulty funds for this compromise, but if it has found them, it should remain for the purpose of coordination and an important message: there is no freezing, nor is the coordination of pensions frozen. That's it. It's not possible right now. In view of the criticism of the intervention measures, it is necessary to emphasise that the measures proposed are comparable to those of the Member States of the European Union which have a similar deficit and similar economic growth forecasts. In view of the fact that the Government is taking measures to promote economic growth, partial coordination of social transfers, pensions and salaries of public servants is a measure that will have an impact on the improvement of the social situation of the population of Slovenia, or reduce the need for social transfers, and thus, through measures to promote economic growth, have an impact on productivity growth, which will result in increased wages and consequently increase pension growth. The government had to intervene because, without government measures, the budget deficit in 2012 would exceed 6% of GDP or higher for a good billion euros, which should not happen, because we need to show a clear intention of reducing the deficit. Failure to do so would make the economy's credibility worse, which would make the economy's recovery worse. We have survived the recession quite successfully, given the measures taken to preserve jobs and promote economic growth. Despite lower economic growth in 2010, unemployment growth is lower than anticipated. Of course, anti-crisis measures have contributed to lower unemployment, which have helped Slovenia maintain 28 thousand 500 jobs, of which 8 thousand have been part-time subsidies, 17 thousand jobs under the Law on Partial Reimbursement of Wages and 3 000 500 jobs on the basis of low-value measures aimed at companies that have gone into difficulties during the crisis, self-employment subsidies. The unemployment rate in 2010 is still among the lower members of the European Union and is better than expected in the spring forecast. It is true that in October 2010 there is an increase in the number of unemployed also due to seasonal effects, since the fall is the time when many student statuses expire, at which time the inflow of the first job seekers is always increasing. On the basis of the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, unemployment will reach between 103 and 105 000 unemployed people at the end of this year, with unemployment growth significantly lower this year than last year, with a slight increase in the next year, and then expected to improve the situation and fall below 100,000 unemployed. However, employment in the labour market must also be considered. In the first 10 months of 2010, 47 000 356 unemployed persons were employed, almost 19 % more than in the comparable period last year. Of course, in 2011, Slovenia abolishes measures to shorten working time and wait for work. Economic growth in 2011 will amount to 2.5% of gross domestic product, which means that these measures will no longer be necessary. This makes it more necessary to restructure the economy, which is significantly increased in the budget. Of course, economic growth could be higher in 2011 and 2012, but the construction situation is worse than indicated in spring. The decline in construction investments is the largest in housing, facing financial problems and accumulated stocks. Investments in the construction of infrastructure facilities, where we have completed intensive construction of the road network, are also much lower than in previous years, as is the problem in this segment of the lack of resources for launching new projects. As a result of such developments in construction, investments will continue to decrease to around 3,5 % this year, although investments in equipment and machinery have been increasing since the second half of last year, which is linked to increased capacity utilisation, particularly for exporters. Indeed, construction and real estate operations, which in the years preceding the crisis have been over-indebted and above-average levels of value added growth, have reached. The fall of construction activities in 2009 is highest among the activities. This is exactly the situation in 2010. Thus, investments in the previous mandate have overheated the economy with the help of the previous government and are now hampering the recovery of the economy due to overheating. Already data on value added growth in construction from 2005 to 2008 show that this area has been inflated. In 2005, construction generated 5.85% of GDP and in 2008 it was already 7.33% of GDP. The highest share of GDP was in the third quarter of 2008, when construction generated 7.86 % of gross domestic product. Also, data on the growth of investment in construction shows the inflatability of construction. The five-year average of growth in construction investments was 3.9% from 2002 to 2006, and growth was 17.1% in 2007 and 10.1% in 2008, much higher than in the euro area, i.e. 2.1% of investment in construction in 2007. Despite 2.5% of economic growth, however, budget revenues in 2011 will be lower than revenues in 2008, which is, of course, the result of the crisis. Thus, the 2011 budget revenue will be around €8.3 billion, which is only 248 million more than in 2010. Expenditure will amount to €10 billion, about a percentage of GDP and €357 million less than in the budget adopted. Therefore, compared to the 2011 budget adopted, all categories of expenditure, other than investment expenditure and investment transfers, are reduced as a result of the need to maintain funds to promote economic growth and employment. As a result, investments and investment transfers increased by more than 45 % and 446 million euros in 2011 compared to 2008. An additional increase in investment expenditure and investment transfers is foreseen in 2012. On the basis of the budgets put forward, the public financial deficit in 2011 will fall by 1 percentage point and will amount to €1.69 billion or 4.5% of GDP. In 2012, the deficit will be 3.6% of GDP and below 3% of GDP in 2013. This will reduce the public deficit by 2.4 percentage points within three years. In the Group of Social Democrats, we recognise that the pace of deficit reduction is slower than anticipated for several reasons. Indeed, in 2011, tax revenue growth is projected to decrease, given the fact that the deficit is projected to decrease in 2011 through the freezing of expenditure and that, on the basis of the increase in tax-free tax revenues, there is a higher deficit than foreseen. Given the fact that European Union countries, including Slovenia, have abolished anti-crisis measures, fiscal consolidation and, on the basis of the implementation of currency wars, if we can call them, increasing the value of the euro, faster deficit reduction is dangerous in terms of reducing the promotion of economic growth and employment. However, the main structural measure that weighs in assessing the risks of the State and maintaining its credibility is the implementation of pension reform, in addition to fiscal consolidation. Failure to implement this reform or fail to consolidate public finances would have an impact on the reduction of the country's credit rating, which would exacerbate the recovery of the economy, which in good times has been over-indebted by the assistance we have seen in the past mandate. According to the 2011 and 2012 budgetary policy set out, the largest amount of funds allocated to social security policy is almost €2.5 billion in 2011 and almost that much in 2012. Social security expenditure is, of course, the largest increase compared to 2008 is €431 million, given the fact that social security policy covers social protection programmes, child and family protection, pension and disability protection, long-term care, the protection of the sick and the regulation of the system, and therefore the increase in resources is primarily directed at increased social security policy needs. With regard to the level of resources, the policy of education and sport is followed by a good 1.4 billion. Investment in education and training is essential if we are to achieve long-term development and progress and respond to technological and demographic changes. Due to the importance of education and training in creating economic, social and other results, this is a country's priority at all levels and, therefore, as a general or main objective in the context of formal education, it is possible to provide accessible and quality education and education for all and to provide at least 13 years of education for all. In doing so, it is important to stress that in education and sports policy, the funding for scholarships is the most pronounced increase: from 97 million in 2009 to 120 million in 2011 and 143 million in 2012. By bringing together the policy of higher education, science, technology and information society – €707 million – and the policy of entrepreneurial competitiveness together, we find that in 2011 there are €1 billion and 2.88% of gross domestic product. In 2008, 777 million euros or 2.1% of GDP were realised for the same purpose. The increase in resources for the policy of higher education, science, technology and information society is important in terms of the pursuit of the objective of accelerated knowledge transfer in the triangle of higher education, science and the economy. Enhancing Slovenia's global competitiveness by promoting innovation and entrepreneurial investment in research and technological development and by increasing its economic growth by increasing technological complexity and the share of knowledge in products, processes and services – this is why it is so important to increase the resources in the budget for this policy and for the policy of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. This is also evident from the budget, as the 2011 budget increases the funds for the business environment, for entrepreneurship and competitiveness, where the funds are ten times higher than the 2010 budget. The 2011 budget also shows an increase in funds for tourism. Of course, it is not only the amount of resources allocated to the budget that is important to achieve the objectives set. This is why it is an important long-term strategy to be drawn up by the National Higher Education Programme from 2011 to 2020 with the objective of a knowledge society. A new research and innovation strategy for Slovenia for the period 2011-2020 is also being prepared in conjunction with the Higher Education Strategy, taking into account the EU 2020 strategy. Given that spending on R & D in Slovenia is still below the EU average 27, the strategy plans to increase public investment in R & D to 1.2% of GDP by 2020. It is also necessary to review the overall range of government measures, which is not only visible in the budget, but is evident in the output strategy and aid schemes for the economy and indirectly through the SID of the Bank, which has already issued over EUR 2 billion by the end of 2009 to assist the economy and 400 million new loans by the first half of 2010. In October 2010, the SID also called for 350 million development funds to promote sustainable economic growth and development, environmental protection, entrepreneurship and the creation of higher value added jobs. On 1 July 2010, the government also adopted the concept of a development platform, which will run through the Bank's SID as a national development and incentive institution, which can become an important instrument of the new Slovenian development model. As a result, the development platform will be one of the key measures that will help to restructure the economy in increasing additional value in addition to the measures already implemented by the Government in the economic field. However, a clear message has been given to the economy by raising the minimum wage. It is necessary to maintain jobs in the long term that will create higher added value and make it possible to live a decent life. In doing so, it should be noted that the low level of minimum wage led mainly to a coordination mechanism laid down by the Minimum Wage Act 2006. This law provides that the minimum wage is aligned with inflation, which is taken into account as the basis for the preparation of the State budget, but has not been built in in case of a faster real inflation than taken into account in harmonisation. In 2006, the minimum wage was lagging behind the nominal growth of the private sector's gross wage for good two percentage points, in 2007 for poor 4.5 percentage points. In 2007, the minimum wage even fell by more than a percentage. Such movements have also led to a sharp decline in the ratio to the average wage, totalling almost three percentage points in both years. In reducing unemployment, the development policy of the labour market and structural measures in the labour market played a key role. Today we voted on one of the structural measures in the labour market. The Small Work Act has proposed an increase in the employment of unemployed, young people and pensioners, one of the key measures in terms of the integration of these groups with the labour market. In order to increase employment, the Government has also taken measures in the tax area, which are taken into account in the 2010 budget rebalancing. The introduction of tax incentives for employment of less than twenty-six years of age and over fifty-five years of age, which are permanently unemployed, will enable tax incentives for employment of up to sixteen thousand unemployed persons. However, structural reforms in the labour market are needed, which are being prepared by this government for greater employment and greater resilience to external influences or external shocks. Unimplemented reforms in the previous mandate have made it difficult to adapt the economy to the financial and economic crisis. Given that the role of active employment policy in reducing unemployment remains important, the Government retains an important amount of resources for active employment policy. The active employment policy contains all activities to advise and assist in the search for employment and is aimed at educating young people, employees in the process of losing their jobs and, above all, at unemployed people. In terms of transport policy and transport infrastructure, an increase in funding for rail infrastructure is already visible in 2010, as the Government has set a priority for faster financing for the reconstruction or construction of rail infrastructure. This is also followed by the 2011 and 2012 budget changes. With regard to criticism by the opposition that there are no measures for new jobs, it is necessary to clarify that these findings are wrong. The government has already taken tax measures to promote employment in addition to active employment policy measures, which provides new jobs through public works, self-employment subsidies. It is also necessary to look at government measures that promote economic growth by additional means for investment, means to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness and by investing in education and by additional means for higher education, science and technological development. However, the operation of the Bank’s SID in the restructuring of the economy is limited. It's funny that the same critics warn that the country is spending too much. The country's indebtedness to the proposed extent continues to promote economic growth and the preservation of existing ones and the creation of new jobs. As regards debt and asset management, it should be noted that the Government has prepared a reform of public property management. The establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency will provide professional management of state property and prevent political interference in the operations of state-owned enterprises. For the same purpose, a real estate fund is also being set up to manage the real estate of the country. It is obvious, however, that critics are actually criticising the promotion of economic growth, the preservation of social security, despite the fact that no stock has been made in the past for the bad times in which we have been found. During the two years of this current government's mandate, a number of measures have been proposed not to say any package that would significantly increase the deficit and, in the case of performances, would make the country's credit rating worse, which would lead Slovenia back or into a new recession. Of course, we are now at the crossroads between the measures followed by Germany and the opposition to reforms and savings. Germany has the highest economic growth after merger and unemployment, which is lower than the pre-crisis period. But the successful recovery of Germany is not accidental. Germany implemented structural reforms, restructured the economy and came out of the financial and economic crisis as a winner. Yeah, and they probably have a different opposition, too. We must not forget this. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Well, if we're already pronouncing, because, if you don't mind, Mr. Vice President, I don't think that's the point. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u37	I wouldn't let him talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u38	Good. Of course, we are now at the crossroads of measures, as I have said, that would follow Germany, and that we are opposed to reforms and savings. In doing so, we must not forget that Germany continues to implement structural reforms, including pension reforms, by increasing the retirement age to 67 years to 2029, even though Germany has minor demographic problems from Slovenia. For this reason, I may expect too much optimism to understand the opposition's understanding of the implementation of the necessary intervention measures and structural measures to improve the life of Slovenes and Slovenes. The collapse of reforms, in fact, means damage to economic recovery and the deterioration of the social situation of the Slovenes and Slovenes, if not today, for a longer period of certainty. Failure to implement fiscal consolidation and pension reform would lead to a reduction in the country's credit rating, which means more difficult and costly indebtedness to the economy, the population and the country itself, as well as to municipalities. Failure to implement pension reform also means that Slovenia would maintain a high risk of public finances, which means that by reducing its rating it would also start to lose jobs and also foreign partners or foreign investors due to the lack of sustainability of public finances. Of course, in addition to these reforms, the Government must make changes to the salary system, draft a new law on non-economic public services, a law on long-term care and long-term insurance and other measures to ensure the sustainability of public finances and increase potential economic growth. The current tightening of the belt and the implementation of structural reforms will bring long-term benefits. I cannot agree that Slovenia should be in debt beyond its capabilities, and therefore a pension reform is ready. In 2005, we, together with the European Commission, with the International Monetary Fund and domestic economic experts, warned that pension reform was needed. If it were ready then, in 2005, it could be milder. Nevertheless, the Government has prepared a good reform from the point of view of the intergenerational agreement. Also, this pension reform prevents the falling of pensions provided by the existing pension system or by the law we have. As a result, the consequences of the higher pension reform will be a result of a slightly later retirement. The proposed budgetary balance between development expenditure, social and austerity measures will allow for the promotion of economic growth, which will improve the social situation of pensioners, recipients of social transfers and not least employees in the public sector. The proposal for a quarterly coordination of social transfers, pensions and salaries of public officials in 2011 does not break this balance, but allows for easier survival within a month during such a difficult period of economic recovery. In view of the need to maintain commitments to the consolidation of the budget and to maintain confidence in economic policy, the Social Democrats Group will support the 2011 budget changes and the 2012 draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u40	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have two important documents under consideration, i.e. the proposal to amend the 2011 budget and the 2012 budget. Why? In fact, these two budgets came about after almost two years of the government's mandate, after a period when the Government could also, through legal, systemic bases, provide a different approach in these budgets, something new, in short, implement its own vision. There was enough time, the time was two years, and today there was an overcrowding by some pre-election candy, a gift from the previous government, which paved the way for public finances and future expenditure. Within two years, they could remove all possible legal procedures and grounds for different planning of expenditure and also revenue into the state budget. So for two years, the budgets — after two years of this government’s mandate — are forming and relate to the remaining two years of this government’s mandate, which means that it can now reflect in fact a different, better way of leading this country than that government likes to predict. We have often heard that free nutrition in secondary schools, that we are with kindergartens, that, after all, by abolishing certain tax revenues such as wages paid, we have made the work of this government more difficult, and it is now very, very difficult because there is still a crisis. In these two years, gentlemen, we could restructure the systemic basis for expenditure and income on our own. It is also about two budgets, which is the first point I want to stress: you have had enough time to lay the systemic foundations for a different, new, better policy of managing the country and spending public money. Secondly, these two budgets are marked by the crisis and by the so-called exit strategy by which the government has rushed. Budgets are part of the exit strategy, but fall out of the exit strategy. We in the opposition welcomed this government's exit strategy, because it set very clear objectives, and we particularly liked the ambitious objective of reducing the budget deficit. And this budget document, or these two budget documents, already has this ambitious objective, and it is set at about 1%, in both budgets, a virtually higher deficit, than was the case with the exit strategy. So this also puts all the other numbers, all the other provisions of the exit strategy under some relative component, a note, under questions. And this January's adopted document is obviously one of the dead letters of the government's policy. And third, which is important for these two documents. It could reflect one policy through priorities, outlined priorities of this government, and this policy could be reflected through numbers, written in concrete terms and could also be supported by concrete measures. Finally, concrete objectives could also be set. Is what we have on the table today what we're talking about? I'm sorry. In fact, we are witnessing some continuity, in fact almost some type of indexation, deformed by the crisis, some revenues and expenditure are changing due to external impacts, the environmental impact is therefore that the economy pays less taxes and needs to be taken into account through the budget and that we have more unemployed, which is again necessary due to the payment of legal obligations for these people again. So we have some sort of adjustment to the old concepts of budget planning to new, external situations such as the consequences of the crisis and nothing else, respected. In four years, this government has not been able to do what it has always promised - to make the restructuring of public finances, to make this country more modern, less flexible, to make it even more efficient and not least to make it a more competitive economy, a knowledge-based society and so on. Sir, has anything been achieved in these two years and is there any extension to achieve this in these budgets over the next two years? I must, unfortunately, find out that we are far away from this prediction. In particular, it has now become funny for coalition Members to speak so that they can take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity. You could have. A small, thin economy, a flexible society such as Slovenia, with two million inhabitants and a relatively open economy, could make better use of the crisis as an opportunity to restructure some low value-added industries into those with higher value. Therefore, it could compensate for the decline in jobs in industrial giants, such as Mura, with jobs in technologically developed enterprises, and therefore today could be the desire of the fruits of this crisis restructuring. Did we do that? Not according to all the statistical indicators. And even after all the predictions, we will not, or in the next year, until 2012. And that's actually what he's worried about. The government has not even set any ambitious targets through these budgets. For example, an ambitious goal would be to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy through international scales for so many and so many cities and achieve such results. Because the relative visa of our competitors is progressing, as our open economy is also competing in the international space and must compete with these, and we must be better, not worse than others. In contrast, the results of the last two years have been devastating. We have lost our competitiveness and many other jobs. So we could also set ourselves the goals of creating new, highly productive jobs, so much and so, tens of thousands or even some more ambitious number. None of that! In these budgetary documents, we actually have an existing situation, 2008 and the 2014 target. No intermediate indicator, let alone a clear action to achieve something written, which is more or less anyone's fantasy. It is this late that we did not use the crisis to restructure the economy, so that we did not create some new jobs that would generate added value, taxes and consequently incurs into the budget, that we did not, after all, meet the objectives of our own exit strategy on consolidation of public finances, reducing public debt. These are the facts with which these budgetary documents are burdened and reflect, in fact, a continuity of the last two years. Four years from now, we will only be talking about a significantly worse state, as it concerns public finances, because public debt will be higher and we have done nothing to eliminate the causes of this situation. Well, here's actually my next intervention. Budgets preserve all weaknesses before the year or two of this government's mandate. So there are trends in excessive deficits and, as a result, debt. They are thus maintaining a volatile situation in public finances, especially because nothing has been done on the basis of economic activity to strengthen the revenue part of the budget, but much has been done on the so-called expenditure work, particularly these so-called running expenditure. So we have really alarming things in public finances. If we look at the figures, we have about €1.7 billion in deficit for 2011 at good ten billion in expenditure. By the way, in 2009, the budget drawn up by the previous government for 2009, which was made in the most conjunctural times, estimated a hundred million less expenditure than this budget in times of crisis. So the sooner we hear about, I don't know, some measures to overheat the economy, the more we actually have a hundred million on the expenditure side of a lower budget in those most beautiful years than the proposal for today. And let's not talk about the deficit at the time, which was planned at about 100 and twenty-five million euros, but now it's a billion and six and eighty-eighty or a weak billion and seven hundred million euros. So I would like to point out that this expenditure part of the budget is really under control. The government, I am not saying that it is not trying to save something within the budgetary documents of beauty, but I will continue to present the figures that say that it is more or less about moving and freezing or moving some of the expenditure, but not about solving the cause of these expenditure or eliminating the pressure on these expenditure. So this is the first conclusion that these deficit trends, as a result of large public debt, are being maintained. Let me mention in this public debt or growing public debt the fact that in such a dizzying debt they would have been long ago, probably even in an unenviable situation such as Greece and Ireland, if that government had not waited for its mandate with record – or with one of the lowest public debts in the euro area and, of course, the European Union. This government expected its mandate at 22.5% of the gross domestic product of public debt, which has now risen to nearly 40% this year, and if it was expected to be there at 60%, 70%, then they would be where the Greeks are, or where there would obviously be another European Union country. So when I first hear that there is no supply for bad times — yes, respectable, where would you be if this stock were not today? So, God help us to see what will happen at the end of this four-year term with such a dizzying debt and the resulting increase in public debt, which is seriously starting some credit ratings – banks have already lost them in one way or another, and the country will feel them as well. And this will make Slovenia's competitive position worse in the future and all the indices that measure the stability of our economy, the prospects of our economy, and which are ultimately internationally important for the future of our country and our economy. Another problem is – or more – that the government has some chronic problems with planning public finances. See, here I have a table of planned or adopted budgets and later, of course, also of the rebalances and, quite literally, the government is always wrong about revenue planning, it evaluates them as much as possible as it happens, and then through the rebalancing process everything is being corrected, and with this legislation in the field of public procurement and expenditure planning that the state and the whole public sector have, some optimal investments and expenditure cannot be planned at all. If you have a budget to adopt, say, today for 2011 and then around January 2011 you know that there will be a March, April rebalancing and then waiting for this rebalancing, then there will be a rebalancing under the roof one June and then everyone already knows that there will be a rebalancing in October, and then, of course, this thing is spinning and moving away again. As a result, we also have great difficulties with realisation on some, even investment expenditure, which, in fact, is always at stake because of this uncertainty. See, in the adopted budget for 2009, adopted by the previous government, a poor 9 billion revenue and a good 9 billion expenditure were planned. The first rebalancing, which was adopted in 2009, reduced revenue by only about 200 million, increasing expenditure by as much as 800 million. But of course, then followed the sobering. For the second rebalancing in 2009, revenues were reduced by up to 800 million. See what the planning problem is: in 2009, in fact, half a year before the second rebalancing, a planner at the Ministry or anywhere overestimated the revenues by EUR 800 million or 10% of the total revenue. And the image for 2010 is adopted by the budget of 8 billion 600 revenue and, of course, 10 billion 400 or almost 10 billion 500 expenditure, and then there's a rebalancing that reduces revenue by half a billion. For half a billion, the 2010 budget was miscalculated and then corrected and, of course, reduced expenditure by half a billion. Then very similar: Budget 2011 8 billion 800 revenue and 10 billion 300 expenditure and, of course, the first rebalancing already 8 billion 300 just revenues. Once again for half a billion. Apparently, the government has for half a billion in some way some systemic error either in software or in their heads that too many, I would say, predicts on the income side. Of course, this is a major problem, which will probably also mark the budgets of the coming years and, of course, the need for rebalancing. I've pointed out what that means! This means that this problem will be reflected in the planning of the expenditure side due to these frequent rebalancings. So, Your Honor, this is your second problem. The first is a chronic deficit; the second is a chronic planning problem. We'd still be living with it. But what the third one is, in my opinion, is the most important problem, which, indeed, seems to me, has been dragging on since the beginning of this government's mandate and will continue and will continue: it does not eliminate the causes of unbalanced public finances, but it only delays with problems. If you think that by freezing pensions, social transfers, by freezing salaries in the public sector, by freezing the progress of civil servants in the public sector, you will save these current expenditure in order to reduce it in the future, you're damn wrong. You won't, because they're going to hit in time maybe twice after the pressure on these fixed public expenditure. So, instead of eliminating the cause of rising current consumption, you delay the pressures of this current consumption on the current budget and it will be some time later. In 2012, 2013 we will already exercise and do something. This seems to me to be a key problem, which is also reflected through numbers. The latest statistics say that in Slovenia there are already 160,000 civil servants, that the Pahor government has produced 4 thousand 300, that there have been thousands from August to today or until October. You can read this in today's newspaper. We have some trend in the rise of employees in the public sector. They say that, in particular, at school in recent times, because we were in the new school year and some teachers had to be hired and that is it. Look, the last time I looked at the statistics, if we're already at this school, then I'm gonna stop at these popular agencies. In fact, in education we found that in Slovenian schools we have about 7 students per professional worker. Let's just take away the technical frame, that's what directors are made, and what janitors do. So on those who are working professionally with the educational work, there are 7 students per worker and about 8 pupils per teacher. In 1982 there were about 2 times as many pupils per teacher. So at some point we managed to double the number of teachers per student or professional workers, and I would like to see that study or that argument for that, which will also testify that the knowledge of our children or I don't know what, has improved twice. I'm sure the curve is even the opposite, so it's true that there's some optimal number of teachers per student or vice versa, and then it's already broken and bent. In fact, we have failed and have never put this increasing pressure on public officials on current expenditure and not through this budget or through legislation that generates future budgets, you have not addressed this problem. Respectable from the government! The crisis was an opportunity to cut and deal with these problems in some way, but it is not obvious. I mentioned these unfortunate agencies earlier. Look, there were no agencies set up. You said that you would hire people from ministries, departments, sectors that have already done similar work in different departments, and that this would be more effective now. Let's look at the Capital Investment Management Agency. This agency will have extremely important tasks. He's showing up now. Indeed, it is now her fault to replace Mr Rotnik at the Termoelectric power plant of Šostjanj. The minister didn't know anything, the Prime Minister didn't know anything, this capital investment is obviously under the agency now, and I don't know if they ordered it there. So, the Prime Minister of the Government even talked about the revolution in capital investment management. Do you know how much this agency has an annual budget for 2011? 317 thousand euros. So this agency will manage all energy with 317,000 euros, manage Luka Koper, with Telekom, manage the entire financial sector, banks and insurance companies. 317 thousand euros is probably enough for six or seven wages or eight annual salaries for people with some kind of education. With just a study or some kind of professional basis, for example, to combine energy pillars or, last but not least, to manage capital investments effectively. So how do you imagine that this agency will not be a purely ordinary ficus company, which will be just a convenient excuse for policy, that capital investment management is far away, but in short will not be humane, not financially, not in any way equipped, in order to be able to handle these investments in any serious way. So I want to tell you how these agencies can be born and are themselves the purpose and convenient excuse, and in some ways even worse or even more unproductively solve some problem despite the declaratory efforts to withdraw policy from the economy. So in this way, Your Honor, it will be very difficult for you to handle the causes of these expenses. Let me illustrate to you, for example, with one more piece of data, the extremely problematic way in which the structure of the expenditure is conditioned by all these non-management of current expenditure. A sound rule of finance or the stability of any cash register is that the deficit must not be greater than investments. So the deficit can be as much as investments, about, not bigger. We have a deficit of 1.7 billion or 1,688 billion euros, investment expenditure and investment transfers together in the 2011 budget, and we have under one and a half billion. That is to say, we have less investment than we have deficits. What does that mean, Your Honor?Oh, my God! This means that with a deficit we are financing some ongoing operation of this country. Now I'm asking you - is this healthy?Oh, my God! Is that healthy?Oh, my God! I also understand that we would have a deficit for some strategically important investments and the consequences of borrowing. Such investments, which will return this investment with added value, which these investments will bring either with employment or with some increase in competitiveness – I don't know, these are all infrastructure projects. However, respectable data, when investment transfers and investment expenditure are higher than the deficit, of course we cannot approach this unless the payment of funds to the EU budget is considered an investment expenditure - I hope not. So, the first thing is not to eliminate the causes – I said: nothing is done on the restructuring of expenditure and on the systemic basis of the restructuring of expenditure. Another problem is that the Government is being shot down by ineffective measures to increase economic activity and create new jobs. I think that this should be a second objective, in addition to restructuring expenditure, to make the country a weaker, more efficient state apparatus to adapt to the new challenges of our citizens; of course, money should also be channelled into effective measures to boost the competitiveness of the economy and not least the opening of new jobs. What are the actual numbers in this area? It has already been mentioned that we are diametrically different from Germany. Germany, as I have heard, is now at the unemployment rate or unemployment rate, as it was before the crisis. We were prior to the crisis with 60,000 unemployed, today we have 102, 103 thousand. That is to say, we have almost doubled if we count those who are still in these temporary job-sustaining measures, we would probably be at the number 120 000, which is probably twice as much as before the crisis. And what did the Germans do? Just what we proposed in the opposition! With these intervention measures, many have been preserved by the State in order to promote the economy. Just remember the subsidies for the purchase of a new eco-vehicle, by which the Germans helped their automotive industry a lot and, thank God, also us, because we are involved in the supply industry of these German automotive industries. What if these Germans and the French didn't introduce these measures? God help me! So we've been "punching" on some of their actions in the past. We have developed our own actions – I don't know, the minister will certainly commend them, the economy and the opposition will punish them. Just look at the measures to eliminate the credit crunch. Banka Slovenije, as an independent regulator, estimates that, today, due to some outstanding credit activities of Slovenian banks in management purchases, they cannot, in the case of ownership consolidations, have no capital to support those promising economic projects, in particular from the structure of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is what Banka Slovenije notes, not the opposition, this ugly plague, which only engrosses your intention to rule. So these are the findings and economicalists and Banka Slovenije. And don't tell me, please, that the credit crunch is over. Perhaps for some it is not eliminated, for example for the Grepa or Stožice project, which, despite the failure to meet the terms of the lease contracts for the new mall in Stožice, has already received the first half of the first tranche of credit, 25 million euros by state banks, or the fronts here in Nova Ljubljanska banka. "So let someone else tell me that it is an economic project, that it is not a political project, that it is not a political project, that it is not a political project and we will probably consider it in this Parliament too. So, on the one hand, there is no structure of spending and expenditure of this budget, on the other hand, there is no revenue, because there are no effective economic recovery measures, so of course this unfortunate deficit is moving from the budget to the budget and public debt is increasing from the budget to the budget. With such alarming data, when we talk about billions, it is pointless to talk about five million increases in expenditure for, I don't know, technological development or the second and third investments, because it is a drop into the sea of problems reflected in this budget, which is not only the result of the situation in public finances and, last but not least, in the Slovenian economy and in the Slovenian population, which is mainly now at the level to receive transfers more than to create a new value. Let me draw your attention to the last major problem, that is to say, in addition to these two, there is a third problem, why we do not address the causes. While the priorities through the budget are written, none of them can identify effective measures and targets that will ensure and enable monitoring of these priorities in the coming years. One important priority is to increase the competitiveness of the economy. I have already said that after one scale we have fallen by 20 cities, one by 8 cities, that Slovenian banks have lost their credit ratings and that, as a result, the state will lose them, so the conditions for borrowing new loans by the state will be tightened. What does the Government do in this area? Instead of actually promoting competitiveness through measures and setting a competitiveness target, it proposes new and new proposals that only negatively affect the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I will not mistake the Ministry of Economy's proposal to have higher electricity prices, of course, as planned by the planned reorganisation. But I'm going to talk about pension reform. In essence, pension reform also has an additional burden on the economy, as the basis for calculating contributions is foreseen to represent a greater burden on the economy. Instead of removing one rakrano of the Slovenian economy, which is too much of a burden on work and wages – on the contrary, we are going to make it even more burdensome and, of course, hope to relieve the economy, make the economy able to cover the continuous new and new demands of the public sector for new and fresh money. This Slovenian economy cannot do so with such a policy. You have already raised excise duties – excise duties are estimated to be about 400 million more revenue in 2011 than in 2009, following the previous draft budget. 400 million more in excise duties. In fact, the 2009 budget provided a thousand EUR 152 million in excise revenue, now for 2011, according to your proposal, 1.5 billion and 16 million, i.e. for the poor 400 million more. I want to say that these are all measures that go counter, not in the direction of increasing competitiveness, but which stifle the Slovenian economy. You are promising from the Slovenian economy 20% more tax than the income of legal persons in 2011 than the 2010 realisation assessment. It's just not possible! If you take measures to kill the economy, expect this economy to pay more taxes on the income of legal persons – it will not and cannot! This is once again one of the flowers of this budget that indicates a problem with the reality of planning. So you are planning for 81 million more corporate income tax revenues, which, by the way, represents 20% in 2011, according to the 2010 realisation assessment, we are not yet able to talk about realisation because it is more than one month by the end of the year. So I just want to say that there are no measures or are ineffective to give what is expected of this poor economy. So, sire, let me conclude with this conclusion that Slovenia is, and this government, far from taking advantage of the crisis as an opportunity, every crisis is an opportunity for many of us, each of us has ever been in a personal crisis, a crisis, a problem. It could have come out better than before, the crisis can always be an opportunity, an opportunity can be for a man, an opportunity can be for a family, an opportunity can be for a country. We have already, so to speak, become a little accustomed to the crisis, unfortunately, and we are far from being able to see the crisis as an opportunity for us, obviously this crisis and this government is a missed opportunity for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you. Your Honor! Today is the most important political and economic debate of the year, which will also mark the next two years. The proposal for amendments to the 2011 state budget, the 2012 draft supplementary budget and the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis constitute basic government acts of economic, public financial policy, development or output reform policy of the country. The government with it enters the second half of its political mandate, which appears to be equally or even more tiring and stormy than the first. The years 2011 and 2012 represent years of political, economic and opportunity challenges. Economic because the current Slovenian economic model, as in some other countries, has proved to be underdeveloped, sustainable and socially sustainable. In front of us is urban et orbi proof that the economic crisis is still here, as it appears that it will never again be the same as it was. Nor is it just an economic crisis, unless there is a feeling in this assembly that the whole policy is just an economic policy. Slovenia needs a policy based on long-term objectives that must respond to the demands of our citizens, the expected European Union and global financial markets. We have built our past developments on a likely excessive debt, and therefore the European Commission is stepping up economic and budgetary control due to the fiscal and debt crisis, as it wants greater fiscal harmonisation, which is intended to reduce the debt risks of the Member States and the whole of the European Union. In addition, Slovenia must keep an eye on the financial market response and, last but not least, on the country's credit rating. This is mainly a matter of assessing our common debt and capacity to repay, as our country is quite indebted to the outside and its area of manoeuvre is quite limited. The state and projections of public financial aggregates show that the problems in public finances are not only temporary but also, in particular, structural in nature. Maintaining high deficits would increase the long-term sustainability of public finances. This is the goal set by the Government as soon as possible and to minimise the risk to the stability of public finances during the financial crisis. In the public financial world, the story is not new; on the one hand, the falling tax yields or the projected gradual increase with a very high level of risk and on the other, rising expenditure on social benefits. So steady economic activity, in some industries, even a strong tide, and at the same time, here the government needs to secure and recognise stable social protection. It is quite clear that the policy of maintaining the status quo and political purchasing must be replaced by a policy of change, reform, if you wish, and restructuring or policy of denial. While Slovenia can go through some local political rhetoric and local political rituals of individual stakeholders, Slovenia as a small country of global trends cannot change, it can only change itself. Then, with more optimism, it is expected that, supported by deliberate and implemented measures, confidence and motivation for economic progress and growth will increase. Only through political disruptions around the distribution of a cake of public finances, without original political and social ideas will we be sentenced to repeat exercises and barren crops. The immune system of public finances is in place with us, and the intervention is pending. Otherwise, we can join a group of European patients named PICS. In the Group of Members, we have indeed decided to support the Government in these proposals. We attach the thought that capitalism, and here we are, can only work if you act, allow me to say Protestant ethics and so-called postponement of satisfaction, denial when consumption is not the last lexaurin on the way to happiness. Did the last intervention come out of this knowledge? If so, it is the right step toward a different course of action and conduct. With this, we want to justify citizens' expectations for a more efficient functioning of the country. The stability of the world is uncertain, perhaps even at stake, and we are part of it: all of us, from those with venerable age, to those who are yet to come. We have decided that these acts are necessary, sufficiently and adequately coordinated and that we are therefore abstaining from further discussions, because we have already established the fundamental observations and solutions, most of them, in the handling of working bodies. What needs to be done is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In February this year, we discussed the government's exit strategy for the period 2010-2013. At the time, we supported this document in the Slovenian People's Party, although we felt that the strategy was based on the assumption that the financial and economic crisis was already over. The strategy referred, inter alia, to the consolidation of public finances as a fundamental economic policy measure. Why I am saying that she was quoting, i.e. in the past: because clearly this exit strategy does not produce the right results. Even the Government, through its draft budgets, denies the direction set out in this strategy. Back then, in the SLS Group, we warned that saving in the public sector was too ambitious. At that time, we proposed that the government should set itself at least 10% at the annual level to cut public spending. And part of what we have saved is not to encourage the economy, which would make it easier to cope with the crisis. For example, the government has listed in the exit strategy that it will reduce public sector labour costs in order to reduce the number of public sector employees by about 600 per year. But it happens the other way around. Since the beginning of this government's mandate, the number of civil servants has increased by more than 4 000. We've already heard that this year for a thousand. As early as January, for example, when we addressed the opposition package of anti-crisis measures, we drew attention to the key problem that policy will have to face in the coming period, namely how to reduce public spending and how to allocate available public funds to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness and economic growth. At that time, we said that without the economic burden on the one hand and the reduction of public consumption on the other hand, we do not see any way out of the financial and economic crisis. The basic philosophy of any programmes, packages or measures to come out of the economic crisis should be to reduce the public financial deficit. Above all, this should be based on the expenditure side of public finances, i.e. on reducing spending where it is not necessarily necessary. When adopting the 2010 budget rebalancing, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development assessed that the proposed 2010 budget rebalancing does not provide for intervention in expenditure with more systemic measures, but merely means harmonising expenditure with lower estimated revenues and thus will not contribute to the consolidation of public finances. Let us look at the 2011 and 2012 budgets, which are the subject of debate today. To begin with, something about the composition or form of the proposed budgets. In our view, it is a completely non-transparent budget that prevents comparisons with past years and, worst of all, prevents clear and transparent monitoring of public sector costs in the future. The structure of the budget, the so-called programme budget, we have drawn up or designed according to individual programmes and policies that prevent the entire public concerned and, in particular, taxpayers, from looking at the cost of implementing this programme. What is the cost of work, how much are the material costs, how much are the other costs, etc.? So the public sector with the structure of the budget, such as it is prepared today, is given additional comfort for their uneconomically and uneconomically, and especially for the lack of clarity of business. What we have on the table could be an annex; an annex in the form of a budget, as we have known it so far, and I am interested in what the economists will say on such a budget; those economists who face costs from day to day, raw materials costs, labour costs, energy costs, stock costs and so on and so on. If we don't have these individual items under control – and it turns out from this budget that we won't be able to control them – we don't get it right. According to our assessment, it would be imperative to change only the logic of the functioning of ministers and also of public administration. The logic that now exists and has not changed and will be difficult to turn into the future, in the future, of course, if we do not all work hard on this, it is courageous. It's the logic of consumption. All ministers, officials and all agencies, i.e. all budget users are fighting for this in the preparation of the budget, in fact, this is a butcher's slaughter, how they will receive more budgetary resources for their programmes. And then, of course, those who choose a larger proportion, the more budget allocated to the winners, and those who may not be so radical as to vote less, are declared losers. Compared to the economy, the logic is completely different there. So there's no consumer logic, but it's economic logic. For there are those who can produce the product with as little cost as possible, usually winners, not those who spend more on it. And this logic should also be introduced in the future in the preparation of our country's budgets. In 2011, we will have €1.7 billion in deficits; in 2012 we anticipate new €1.4 billion in deficits. So in two years, we're going to spend three billion more than we're actually going to have. This is about as much as we spend a thousand euros each month at 800 euros. Every housewife in this country, and I mean in a positive way, it's clear that it just doesn't work out and that it leads to bankruptcy and disaster. What's more, let's be more specific. The budget is basically made up of two parts: the estimated revenue and the expenditure incurred. On second thought, we see that the projected revenue in the budgets is based on macroeconomic assumptions based on some future, uncertain and more or less accurate forecasts and assumptions. If we look at only the revenue provided for in the budget of the European Union, the so-called drawing of European funds, we see that these are not based on predictions and assumptions, but unfortunately there is only one wish not to say a godly wish. Why do I say that? The 2009 final budget account shows that only EUR 596 million has been realised out of the projected EUR 814 million, which is 220 million less than planned, which has directly increased the projected budget deficit. Data for 2010 are even more alarming. According to the latest information provided to us Members at the last meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government on 10 November, last week, only a good EUR 500 million has been made available from the budget of the European Union. This means that the projected deficit of €1.8 billion can rise to an incredible €2.3 billion, which is not so unrealistic at all if we know that there are no calls for European funds. That is why we cannot understand this government so much more that it is not in any way ready to tighten the belt and focus on the part of the budget that can be 100 per cent manageable. These are budgetary expenditure. These are not based on any guesses or predictions. They can be exactly what we assume they will be. But logic is different. We'll spend as much as we think we need. Obviously, it is not enough that we have fallen 20 cities on the world competitiveness scale, what has already been said, to 52nd place among 58 countries. We have only been followed by Bulgaria, Romania, Argentina, Croatia, Ukraine and Venezuela, according to our data. The competitiveness index shall be calculated on the basis of a combination of indicators in individual groups and sub-areas. In some specific areas, we are even in a worse place. For example, in measuring the country's effectiveness to 53rd and in measuring its business efficiency to 57th place. Clearly, there are not enough louder warnings from abroad, nor are the bad examples that we have every day on television screens, Greece, and obviously Ireland, which should worry us. It's not enough for 100,000 unemployed. There is nothing else we can understand in the Slovenian People's Party. In 2008, according to the current coalition, the origin of all the serious and all of our current and future problems — such or different ones — the year of the headless dispersion of money, the year of the fat cows, as we like to say in recent years, the year when, on the other hand, there was no budgetary deficit when, according to you, there was much to be saved. Under this logic, today and in the coming years, which will certainly not yet be without the consequences of the economic crisis, should be spent less, especially in those areas that have nothing to do with this financial and economic crisis. Since more than obviously less revenue is also available and since there is something that can and should be saved in 2008 it is logical that today, when we are doing poorly, the volume of consumption should be reduced to at least the level of the year of fat cows, that is to say, to 2008. I'm saying there's more. In 2008, there were 8 and a half billion euros in revenue and 8.4 billion euros in expenditure. So let me repeat: in 2008, the year of the largest economic rise and flourishes in the history of Slovenian statehood. But, no. In fact, you have discovered a new indicator called the structural deficit, an indicator that will turn the most successful financial year into the worst and, on the other hand, your wasteful and non-secret financial policy as the best and only appropriate solution for the Slovenian future. And now that the crisis is unrelenting, in 2010 we anticipate 2.8 billion expenditure and revenue for 8.1 billion, in 2011 10 billion expenditure, 8.3 billion revenue and in 2012 10.1 billion expenditure and 8.7 billion revenue. In fact, let me reiterate once again that the revenue assessment is based on assumptions and wishes and that the expenditure can be accurately planned. And where are we going to save? The law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis that is ahead of us is very clear. In our opinion, it is unacceptable that, in the absence of the state or the public sector, in order to save more seriously, it has tried to save on the basis of the socially weak layers, even though it has been – and I repeat this over and over again – so far the social sector of this government has been the largest and greatest. And it has to be admitted. In this case, we are talking about the freezing of social transfers. These are, for example, child supplements, child care supplements, large family supplements, child support, not to mention any more, aid and service. I am talking about saving at the expense of young families and children when, with a little goodwill, much more money could be saved in other areas of spending, particularly the state administration and its apparatus. I am talking about savings in pensioners when the coordination of pensions is frozen, with which the Slovenian People's Party disagrees. In the case of 1.8 billion annual deficits, for 100 million euros, the country is going to the weakest – of course, this is actually the easiest! On the other hand, instead of unloading the economy, we will burden everything in order: from economy, legal and natural persons to agriculture and so on. Recently, we have been monitoring, especially since the summer ahead, such measures; for example, raising excise duties, raising administrative fees, thinking about a terrible property tax and, last but not least, amending the Income Act, where we will burden Slovenian agriculture with EUR 4 million. We will not support both budgets in the Slovenian People's Party because we simply cannot agree with such a policy and with such logic. For this reason, we have prepared for each year a single amendment aimed primarily at saving, saving on those budget lines that have nothing with this financial and economic crisis, and in these amendments to the 2011 and 2012 budgets we propose that consumption return to 2008 and decrease by 5%. Such amendments would save € 191 million in 2011, €181 million in 2012. So let us return to 2008 spending on those budgetary users who are not associated with this financial economic crisis that have no measures, I will say, social policies, economic measures, competitiveness and so on, but in those areas that simply have nothing to do with it. Let us return to that spending and reduce this spending by a minimum of 5% and save a lot of money that we can use on one hand to reduce the deficit or some of the measures we are talking about today. Many budget users are listed here, I will read only some on the first page of this amendment, for example: the State Council, the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Constitutional Court, the State Audit Commission, probably also the National Assembly. We recently got into our offices new monitors. I don't know what that was about. For me, the old monitor was perfectly fine, I could do the same as I am now working with a new monitor, and probably we could wait in our house. The same is true for all other budgetary consumers. But it takes will, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said, an iron will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Welcome to the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011, nor will we support the draft budget for 2012. The reason for our decision not to support this act, of course, is the rejection of the realization of pensions and social transfers. According to our assessment, the country has reached the lowest point in deducting the incomes of Slovenian citizens and citizens who have earned their pensions fairly and those who are still awaiting their pension for several years. According to our assessment, the argument of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that half-coordination will undermine the entire budget and prevent all investments does not hold serious judgment. No budget can fall due to the amount we want to allocate to the DeSUS Group for the coordination of pensions. At this point, we are reminded of how much money we have spent to solve the crisis in Greece. 384 million euros – we are likely to spend so much – and what we are going to spend on the so-called stability of the euro area. Two billion and 73 million! For the public fund, for regional development we have foreseen a guarantee of EUR 30 million and for Dars' guarantee of EUR 329 million. At the end of 2009, EUR 102 million fell on the state's shoulders on guarantees from companies that were unable to pay for loans. In this case, there are so-called contested claims, since their recovery is very unlikely, if not even incredible. Let me also mention the taxes that have not been collected. The maximum share of the tax collected is tax debt. On 30 June last year, EUR 856.77 million, of which 452 million was active or easier to recover. The outstanding pension and disability insurance amounts to EUR 175.73 million, of which EUR 105 million is an active debt. So if the state could pick up what it should, that is, contributions to the pension fund, enough money would be available for coordination, not only for half, but for 100%. The proposal for both acts also shows that the Ministry of Finance is planning to increase its income. That is why we are asked here who will pay so much more income when you all probably know that citizens and citizens at risk are exempt from income payments. In our country, however, there is an increasing number of such ones, which, as a result, also means less income collected. In the DeSUS Group, as we say, we will not support the proposal of both acts, because according to our assessment the Government has not acted reasonably, has not listened to our calls and calls to the Slovenian public. Since the Government itself has not prepared amendments to the proposal for both acts, with which it will devote money to at least half the valorisation of pensions and social transfers, we Members of our Group have prepared themselves amendments aimed at eliminating the injustices caused by the adoption of both acts in the current form. Of course, in the absence of reasonable evidence, the Government has not shown even a little hearing for our weakest citizens, pensioners; for those who are dependent on social transfers, and each additional euro is more than welcome to them, since they have not taken the slightest step to the contrary. Moreover, the President of the Government has made it clear to us that we are asking for privileges for a particular group of citizens. I watched TV yesterday when the elderly gentleman said that he could not survive with the pension he had and that he was thinking that he would rather die. There's more like it in this country. Maybe that's true, but once again, I repeat, it's the socially weak population. By saving people in this category, we cannot build and maintain a good state of public finances, especially if we know that the state cannot perform one of the most basic tasks, it is an effective collection of tax debt. Finally, let me state the most important fact. In September, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, we adopted a proposal for a law on the transformation of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society, the investment policy of the Capital Society, pension and disability insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. Article 6 of this Law provides, by virtue of the provision of paragraph 1, an amount of EUR 50 million to be allocated by Kad to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office no later than 30 September each year. In the second paragraph of the same Article, the provisions provide that, on the basis of a law governing pensions and invalidity insurance and providing for the coordination of pensions, a transfer shall be used for this coordination, i.e. a pension. So if the provisions of this law were fulfilled, the pensions could be reconciled in half, and all of them would save themselves quite a lot of heavy blood and gray hair caused by the stubborn insistence of the government in order to reduce the most vulnerable category of our citizens and citizens. Finally, let me ask you this: Is it possible that DeSUS has remained a suitable scapegoat for diverting attention with much greater amounts than half valorisation? Grenac temptation leaves us with the idea that it is not 30 million euros, but, in fact, a billion 200 000 euros worth of a project where a copy of the predominant is broken, and that DeSUS's efforts for pensioners and recipients of social transfers have been misused to cover the huge appetites of individuals with billions of dollars. The government has drawn up a proposal for a national reform programme. The key growth indicators for Slovenia in 2009-2012 provided for private consumption growth by 1% in 2011 and 2% in 2012. In the Desus Group, we wonder who the government is counting on to spend more. Ordinary citizens or the 100 richest Slovenians? The government probably does not realize that the largest consumers are pensioners, who, if they have any money left behind after paying their bills, are committed to buying medicines, food and clothing, and we are increasingly devoting this to helping their children or grandchildren. One of the indications to DeSUS Members was that the 2012 draft budget did not plan to harmonise pensions and social transfers. The government rejects our amendment if it is not a reduction related to intervention measures in the area of pensions, but to the transfer of certain expenditure to budgetary expenditure, which has resulted in amended amounts. Moreover, the Secretary of State stated on the labour market that for 2012, the intervention law stipulated that pensions, social transfers and salaries in the public sector would be aligned with the level of growth in living costs or retail prices if this growth was greater than 2 %. According to our assessment, it is merely a mere notion that this is not a predicted freeze. Let us be so honest and acknowledge that this is a simple forecast of freezing. We all know what can be done with statistics and that numbers and paper transfer everything, as well as that among the first mechanisms to show that the increase in living costs will not exceed this level. The President of the Government, rejecting half-coordination, declares that he cannot give up one category of population. Let us also ask him this question: Is not the promise made by the Government to the president of the union of education and education that pensions will certainly not be coordinated in order to agree to the signing of the annex a failure of some interest group? What's more than giving in to unions? Moreover, the government has made this promise to force, restrict and renounce the rights of Slovenian pensioners, recipients of social transfers and that part of public servants who do not belong to the union, which is not a negligible number. In the DeSUS Group, we feel that it is best to blame someone else for the fact that the situation in the country is not what we want. And that's exactly what the Prime Minister and part of the Government were doing, because they didn't know how to make the right answers to the crisis that the country was in. It touches on the lowest tool, that is to say, to find the culprit for the situation, and this time in our parliamentary group or party. In the Desus Group we strongly reject such instigation. In the future, we will also fight for what we think is Slovenian citizens and citizens, because we are not a voting machine, but a party and a parliamentary group with a clear and well-established social agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues from the Government, Minister and representatives of the Government! The main step of this government was to adopt a budget memorandum, both for 2011 and 2012, which is an essential condition for the Slovenian National Party to draw up budgets for those years. In its memorandum and in its budgets, the government foreseen a reduction in gross social product by 0.4% for 2011, which would amount to 4.5%, or a deficit of 4.5% of gross social product, or a billion and 700%, and in 2012 it would be a deficit of 3.6% of gross social product, or a deficit of billions and 420 million. In forecasting the revenue of the State budget for 2011, the government's starting point was an assessment of the realisation of revenue for 2010 and of Umarje's forecast. In doing so, we must say that the 2011 budget has already been adopted in 2009, all of which are all elements that we take into account at substantially different macroeconomic points. Tax revenues have fallen sharply in these two years. With the 2011 budget change, we will see a decrease of almost 550 million revenue and expenditure will be reduced by 350 million euros under the 2011 new budget if we adopt it. So for almost 200 million euros there is a difference, so 200 million euros of revenue will be missing. Taking into account that the two budgets for 2011 and 2012 we are talking about today are based on the freezing of pensions, social transfers and salaries in the public sector, we can conclude that these people we have mentioned are the ones who will save the government 450 million euros. Why am I bringing this up? Because, in the Slovenian National Party, we are unable to spend more billion euros a year on many controversial public contracts and some public purchases, and we cannot pass the fact that in 2009 and 2010 the Government spent more on purchases than was used for various purchases in the financial year 2008. These are the facts we can't go through. In addition, in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot pass the fact that the Government strongly relies on the data of the deceased, while also officially the Bank of Slovenia has announced that the data and assumptions of the deceased are pre-optimistic. And as can be seen or understood from both documents, instructions, instructions or forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia The Government has not taken into account in the formulation of both budgets. The fact is that, once again, the most important document of the budgetary memorandum in the past has overlooked the great debt of Slovenian banks abroad. As a result, there was a credit crunch. Since there are no credits, there are no measures to increase public investment, which are essential first measures in the economic crisis. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware and claim that the budget memorandum is the most important document for Slovenians and Slovenes, Slovenian public. The stability programme, which we also hear a lot to talk about, is intended to be clear to the public of the European Union and not to us. That's why the memorandum is so much more important. The Fiscal Council has made clear that the target, normal share of public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia would be 43% of GDP, and if we kept it, Slovenia could maintain a normal deficit of 1% of GDP by 2013. While the data of both budgets do not show anything yet, which is essential, this is that the private debt of Slovenian banks abroad is the potential public debt of the country, which I do not see here - unfortunately. And at least in the Slovenian National Party, I believe that many in the Government would also say yes to the public financial deficit if it were slightly higher if it were actually created by the only possible permissibility, which is due to the need for economic growth. And since we're talking about budgets and numbers, it's good to know some numbers. When amending the 2011 budget, we can see in the balance sheet, as has already been said, a 500 million amount of lower revenue than the projected and 360 million less expenditure than that foreseen in the original 2011 budget, including 146 million current expenditure and a large amount of savings on the expenditure side, 86 million for savings in salaries and social security employers' contributions. Whether that's right or wrong, everyone will judge for themselves. The investment expenditure of this country is also lower by 186 million, which is commendable on the one hand, but perhaps not sometimes, because there are also the content and things that this country needs and must have. In the 2011 financial claims and investments account, it can be found that this country's loans increased by 400 million. From 113 to 507. In the 2011 funding account, however, we can find that the debt is greater than 570 million and comes to 301 billion. Even if we look at balance sheet A and balance sheet B, which is necessary to look at at at least the basic data, we are in the Slovenian National Party, I will say domestically, very angry, because we will find out the following – actually I will stop in the special work, I apologize – we will find out that after all the saving efforts, we have said where, the National Quality Agency in higher education, I apologize, I don't even know that there is, except that I know what it is doing, they increase the funds by 3.5 million. The Anti-Corruption Commission is increasing by half a million euros, the Capital Investment Management Agency by half a million euros, the Equal Opportunities Office by 100,000 euros, the Security Office by 100,000 euros, the Administration of the Public Administration by 15 million, the Budget Supervisory Office by 100,000 euros, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property by half a million euros. Do it, commission, there's something like this, maybe you're more educated, and you know what these are, I'm hearing for the first time, for some that we're increasing spending. In the fact that a peaceful versus that, in a special part, it says minus 76.5 million for social security and peacefully writes minus 3 million for health care. For some offices, commissions, agencies, newcomers, old, crazy, three are working, the fourth is a brand new one, which will replace these three, and so on, and the millions are going well. On the other hand, I am now returning to balance sheet A and B, we see that entrepreneurship and competitiveness, balance sheet A I am talking about, taken or reduced 400 million, 25 million to higher education, labour market 20 million, education and sport 97 million, transport 85 million, agriculture 14 million, environment 4 million. Social security has been seized by $22.5 million, 4 million to health care, 2 million to the political system, security, 105 million and foreign policy defence, 15 million to the public administration and 40 million to the rule of law, freedom and security. Well, entrepreneurship and competitiveness are in balance sheet B, this is a balance sheet of financial claims and investments, returns, gives them 393 million, gives them to higher education plus 48, environment plus 15 and energy, which has already received something in balance sheet A, but is still worth 2.3 million euros. Maths that have, as they say, according to the old proverb: Each young man has his own eyes. Today we have already heard many comparisons with 2004, 2008, 2010 and 2007. Comparisons are possible, as the budget says, with the calculated indices that I miss, but unfortunately, with the abundance of work elsewhere on other working bodies I didn't have time to calculate which comparison between the 2011 adopted budget in 2009 and between the amendments. This is one of the images that comes from explaining why, what are the reasons of objective and subjective nature. Similarly, for 2012, data from 2011 are compared, i.e. the one that will be valid if it is adopted today compared to 2012. While I have to say that I was very disappointed, there is a criticism of both the position and the opposition of the budgetary meeting of the parent committee, which was a pure farce. Farsa, a smile, a mockery of citizens, citizens and this National Assembly. I myself have been since the opposition to this meeting, where the 2011 budget and 2012 budget were discussed, the amendments envisaged and the intervention law. In coalitions, however, it seems that they have 3 on reserve due to conjunctivities that have or have nothing to do with the parent working body. That's not fair, and that's not fair. Not because of me. Because of the people. This is how things went. Those amendments proposed by the coalition were adopted due to the impact of the intervention law we will discuss. The rest were automatically rejected and the opposition disappeared. I don't know if this is a serious attitude towards the treatment of two budgets, up to ten billion money, eight, I apologize, from which most taxpayers will give, then of course they can judge each other. In the Slovenian National Party, we agreed that, in view of the discussion on the intervention law and the amendments, we would then decide whether or not we would support both budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I hereby terminate agenda items 17 and 18. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defensively proposed law on intervention for reasons of economic crisis within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the law, I give the floor to a representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis is an integral part of the budget documents for 2011 and 2012. Together with both budgets and the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 it represents a closed unit. The purpose of the law is to stabilise public finances and therefore temporarily limit the growth of certain expenditure of the state budget, budgets of municipalities, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. What is the basic content of the law? The law provides that transfers to individuals and households, pensions and other public sector benefits and salaries shall not be coordinated unless the price of living in 2011 is higher than 2 %. In this case, all those expenditure will be aligned in 2012 at a level which represents a difference of more than 2 % of the increase in the cost of living in 2011. Let me mention that, in the course of the debate on this draft law, an amendment was adopted on the home labour body, which somewhat differently harmonises transfers to individuals and households and pensions in 2011, which is still an acceptable compromise for the Government this year. The further provision of the law is that which provides for exceptional measures in the field of kindergartens, which prolongs the transitional period for the implementation of certain of its provisions. The law also provides for funding from the State budget for kindergartens to co-finance parental payments for children who have completed the age of five or four years, amounting to 50% of the payment. According to the proposed intervention law, the transitional period for the implementation of these provisions of the kindergarten law should end on 1 January 2013. Therefore, in 2011 and 2012, we do not foresee these payments or these costs in the budget. The third element of the law relates to the abolition or initially to the elimination of wage imbalances for public servants, but this part was already deleted at the meeting of the parental committee of the law since an agreement was reached with representative unions in the meantime and in the second part related to the elimination of salary imbalances for officials. This elimination of salary imbalances for officials shall not be carried out and the measure shall be extended. This, however, applies to all public servants that their regular work performance does not belong to them. However, the increased volume of work is paid in percentages paid in 2010. A further limitation of progress is foreseen. In addition, the proposed law reduces the level of co-financing of municipal investments. In accordance with the Community Financing Act, 5% of total eligible expenditure should be provided to municipalities in 2011 and 6% in 2012. Since this volume of resources for this purpose cannot be provided for in the budget, the law provides that between 2011 and 2012 the municipalities for co-financing investments account for 4 % of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. A greater volume of resources would jeopardise the possibility of the current implementation of the budget. Let me conclude by stressing once again that, with the proposal and the Law on Intervention Measures, we are not reducing existing rights but limiting their growth. The ambition of this law is not to ensure structural change, but to ensure a sustainable state that will enable us to continue to implement this structural change. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held in the framework of the 29th urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Ten. 2010 as the working body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis submitted to the National Assembly was considered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for adoption following an emergency procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 78th meeting, held on 8 November 2010. Ten. 2010 The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in the context of its comments, in addition to general comments concerning the question of the nature of the intervention law, the implementing provision and the retroactivity of the legislative proposal. The Legislative and Legal Service shall forward specific comments to the types of articles and to the title of the text to each proposed legislative and legal service. Among the qualified candidates, the amendments have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Groups to delete Articles 2, 3, 4 and 11, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to amend Article 1 and the amendments to delete Articles 2, 3, 4 and 11, which would mean that social transfers, pensions, co-financing of children in kindergartens and co-financing of investments in municipalities are not limited and coordinated on the basis of legislation already adopted, namely full. However, only the salaries of public servants and officials would be limited. The DeSUS Group has tabled amendments to Article 2 and 4 of the legislative proposal, which would allow for only half-coordinated social transfers and pensions. The three coalition groups, the Social Democrats' Group, the Zares Group and the Liberal Democracy Group on 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 12 proposed, with amendments, that social transfers, pensions and salaries of public servants and officials be aligned with 25% in individual laws in areas of a certain degree of harmonisation and to the title of the law. Since the proposal for a law also regulates the salaries of judicial officials and the co-financing and investment of municipalities, it has been forwarded to the local communities and the judiciary after the introduction of the Law on Courts, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In addition, the Committee received the opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which considered the proposal to be an interested working body, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the comments on Article 11 of the proposal by the sixty-four Slovenian municipalities, expressing its opposition to the further reduction of the funding for investments belonging to municipalities under the Public Finance Act. At the meeting of the Committee, the Minister responsible for Finance gave substantial emphasis to the solutions presented, with a brief summary of the overall historical context, the global economic and financial crisis, the necessary stimulants, until the gradual implementation of the developmental transformation. In the current phase of the resolution of the crisis consequences, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, the proposal in question, with a view to stabilising public finances, temporarily limits the growth of certain expenditure of the state budget and the budget of the municipalities, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, while ensuring that transfers of individual households and other carriers and benefits and salaries in the public sector are not coordinated, unless the increase in the cost of living in 2011 is higher than 2 %. The discussion focused on the basic text. The Committee's attention was focused on individual amendments, while representatives of opposition parties did not express support for the text at the same time as a number of expressed concerns. At the time of its consideration of the amendment to the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 11, the Committee adopted amendments to the three coalition groups, SD, Zares and LDS, to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12 and to the title of the law. The amendments previously mentioned by the SDS Group, the SLS Group and the amendments of the DeSUS Group have not been adopted by the Committee. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which those amendments are included in the amended draft law is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Let me begin by saying that, in many cases, the syntagma itself about intervention measures due to the economic crisis is likely to increase attention, concern, and fear among many. It's no big deal if this is happening, because it's happening because the expected scenarios aren't going as they would have wanted, because it probably turns out that some of the assessments weren't accurate enough or even wrong. It also turns out that we may have planned and misplanned somewhere. In any case, conditions do not improve as they would like to. In a lot of areas, they get tougher, worse. The circumstances in which we live deviate from what was expected, what was desired. We can probably also say that some measures aimed at preventing an excessive crisis have not been sufficiently accurate or time-consuming. For example, these were probably the measures we called economic guarantee schemes, as well as for individuals. They came almost certainly, at least after our assessment, according to the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, too late at the wrong time. Of course, we must all be aware that we must not give in to any fatalism and that action must be taken. The government also assessed this as necessary and presented it to us. The key weaknesses of the situation are certainly modest economic recovery, excessive public debt and deficits from year to year over the last period, and the modest progress of the individual structural reforms that we have promised and which we are forecasting, and we are only making a step forward with difficulty. However, it is probably also important to note some of the measures of the social state that were necessary, which were very large, but which were at the forefront of productivity growth and added value growth. This simply does not go into infinity because the gap is too large and the system can even collapse itself. The government therefore assessed the time as an intervention. It is not the only one who assesses this, including the profession, even in policy with different omens, it is estimated that intervention measures are needed. It should be said that these are not the first intervention measures. Years ago, we had intervention measures to help those with the poorest pensions. Later, we helped those with very modest incomes. We also helped the economy. But these were measures that should be called positive measures. In the last period, however, we have experienced the first half-freezing, although this is difficult for anyone, but it is a relative freezing and now it is proposed to be three-quarters. We in the Group of Unaffiliated Members know that without measures we would not have been able to resolve the problems in the long term. However, we also know that we have always proposed that this be done slightly differently, that those who can do more also make a significant contribution, and that a certain limit should be set, a threshold under which intervention measures would no longer go to a worsening of the social situation. Therefore, some of the frozen transfers at the lower limit will now be frozen at the threshold or even below the poverty threshold, which of course is not good. Since we have not been able to find better solutions, and since the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has reached a kind of stalemate, in order to mitigate the measures, we have also decided in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that we will contribute a little bit to the adoption of this law with compressed teeth.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u56	Your Honor! When adopting the most important public financial documents, it is necessary to evaluate the situation of our country in a sober, critical and responsible manner. For social democracy, it is crucial that fiscal policy strengthen the recovery of the Slovenian economy without significantly undermining the standard of living of our people. In doing so, we understand the stability and sustainability of public finances as a fundamental prerequisite for strengthening weak but reliable signs of economic recovery, without which we can threaten not only economic growth but also the successful prosperity and security of people achieved and in times of crisis. The deepening of the economic and financial crisis puts additional pressure on public finances. Projections by public financial aggregates show that problems in public finances are not transient but structural. Therefore, maintaining high deficits would increase the problem of long-term sustainability of public finances. Our government is therefore determined to adapt short-term measures to reducing public financial expenditure to poor economic conditions. In order to stabilise public finances, the intervention law temporarily limits the growth of certain public budget expenditure, local community budgets, pensions and health bills in order to reduce the level of harmonisation or revalorisation. We do not take this action with satisfaction, either, but as an expression of a sober and responsible policy, which is aware that the deterioration of the public financial condition would pose a fundamental threat to economic recovery, a plan for the gradual stabilisation of public finances under the Stability and Growth Pact, and consequently to the preservation of Slovenia's long-term condition in order to preserve social cohesion and cohesion of society. In 2011, intervention measures will mitigate an increase in the public financial deficit with an impact of around €450 million. Therefore, fiscal adjustment today and in the perspective should be based on the restructuring and gradual reduction of budgetary and other public financial expenditure, taking into account the realisation of the gradual growth of revenue, which will be considerably limited in at least the next two years. Salaries and social transfers represent a good half of all expenditure in the state budget. The absence of contributions due to increased unemployment, lower wages and non-equity and the current mode of coordination of pensions required the activation of additional transfers from the State budget. Let us recall that our Government, consciously and in the interest of preserving the social cohesion of society, has increased the level of social transfers by 44%. Thus, in times of crisis, our first priority is to protect people and their social situation. The Social Democrats underline that Slovenia is classified by those measures as moderate countries that maintain public financial responsibility, but do not interfere with the level of wages, pensions and social transfers achieved, as some other countries do and are forced to do. The adoption of this law will enable a budgetary balance between investment in development and the maintenance of social security. In doing so, they have strengthened opportunities to promote economic growth, which will soon also improve the social situation of pensioners, recipients of social assistance and also employees in the public sector. Social Democrats will support a package of austerity measures that is a prerequisite for the adoption of state budgets for 2011 and 2012. In doing so, we note that the non-admission of this law would deepen the economic crisis and exacerbate the recovery of the economy, which we cannot afford and cannot afford. Today, with the adoption of this law, as well as budgets for the next two years, it will re-marry responsible policy from irresponsible policy. We, too, want to be able to maintain social justice in our society, so that the functioning of the rule of law can guarantee that those who abuse this community to accumulate their own benefits are prosecuted as effectively as possible. In these times, we must not allow the impression that a good dinner is reserved only for some. We therefore call for responsible policies towards the country and responsible policies towards all our people, not forging short-term political benefits for only some.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u58	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! If the crisis and given the content of this Act, the Government is planning the economic crisis for the next two years, then it is necessary to save, on the one hand, and on the other hand to take measures to accelerate economic growth and, on the other hand, to increase employment and increase revenue in all state treasury. This intervention law does not regulate one another or the other. The law suppresses by saving up pensioners, that is, pensions, children and other belts in those who have already squeezed this belt to the end and nailed it to the last hole. But it doesn't save the government where it's supposed to save money. The Pahor's Government has spent the last two years spending substantially more than the previous government spent in a period of conjugation, when the state budget spent around €8 billion, and now for the second year, budget expenditure is moving at almost €10 billion. Debt has doubled in these two years, which means that only the burden of interest in two years will amount to as much as the deficit of the state budget can be under European criteria. This intervention law comes for 2011 and 2012, i.e. for a period when most countries in the European Union are already forecasting faster economic growth, since, unlike the Pahorje government, most European Union governments have taken the necessary austerity and other measures in a timely manner that have resulted in the stabilisation of public finances and, on the other hand, faster economic growth. At a time when we should talk about strengthening economic growth over the next two years and, on the other hand, limiting unnecessary expenditure through the rationalisation of the public sector mainly by the state administration, the Government has decided to save on those who have the least and who already have the same difficulties living from month to month. It would be high time for the Government to prepare us a comprehensive, consistent and operationally divided programme with objectives, institutions and deadlines that would on the one hand underestimate the functioning of the country and, on the other hand, strengthen economic activity and thus the revenue side of all public treasury. Nor can the law be supported because it reduces investment funds to municipalities rather than increase them. We have the source of this, the European funds that will be realised in roughly half this year will therefore remain almost half a billion unused and planned resources in this year's budget, and this could be earmarked for funds that would increase investment activity and investment in the modernisation of municipal and social infrastructure in local communities. The government intended to save money from pensioners. Especially those with the lowest pensions. For those who receive 200, 300, 400 euros a month, each euro is important. It is likely that if this one is only three-quarters old, it will be easier to survive the one with a thousand euros in pension or more. But there are few of them, and the law will apply to all the same. The government is also gripping the belt with the youngest, in kindergarten, in the part where it is also a broader policy called family politics. What is the message of government policy towards young families if the government cut off children where savings are relatively small and amount to EUR 11.8 million per year? At the same time, however, it did not cut off from unnecessary and wasteful public consumption. Example. Only for the operation of new para-national institutions called agencies and offices, which this government has established and established under the current lane, will there be significantly more resources spent at the annual level than this amount without any new added value. On the other hand, the number of students in the country is falling, not the number of those caring for them. We have a rigid and outdated management system in public systems, both in education, in health care and in public administration. With one move, the school minister, when he joined the winter holidays, did the economy 15 million euros in damages only in a week. So, instead of saving on those who provide public services, the government saves on users. If we've been falling all over the place in recent years, there's one thing we haven't done. The bureaucratic apparatus has grown stronger, and this is the only thing that has even decreased. In this case, a respected colleague and colleague is an unconstant and fire-fighting approach, which is also inappropriate. This is why he cannot be supported. The government tightens the belt for those who have the least and gives it to those who have the most. However, there is nothing to do about the more rational use of public funds and better management and management. For this reason, it cannot be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me briefly repeat some of the facts that I have already mentioned in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group until the drafts of the 2011 and 2012 budget. In 2011, we will have 1.7 billion deficits, new 1.4 billion euro deficits in 2012. So in two years we're going to spend good three billion more than we're actually going to have. This leads us, in our opinion, to disaster. The government is leading such a financial policy in full awareness and awareness of its consequences in the fact that its revenue assessment can only be based on assumptions and wishes and that expenditure could be accurately planned. In the Slovenian People's Party to this proposal, we do not support the law in so far as it remains in the content proposed. We have repeatedly said that the Government in the field of social affairs has done a great deal in these two years, probably most of the areas affected by the financial and economic crisis. Therefore, we do not understand that we will now be saving on the most socially vulnerable citizens and citizens. Let me first point out that this law speaks of the freezing of pensions to those beneficiaries or pensioners who are already receiving them. The pension reform is something else, and today it is not a matter of debate. It is a desire to create some atmosphere that pension reform also brings about the freezing of pensions. Well, pension reform doesn't bring pension freezes. The freezing of pensions brings this law, which we are considering today, namely the Law on Intervention Measures due to the economic crisis. However, we do not agree that a large proportion of this crisis or the consequences of this crisis on our shoulders would be borne by those who are most at risk. We cannot agree to freeze pensions. We cannot agree to freeze social transfers. We cannot agree that we are saving in children in kindergartens. We also cannot agree to save on co-financing of local self-government investments. We believe, however, that this failure, which is not so great here, is possible to replace it in some other areas. We are talking about, given the proposaler's explanation, the poor 150 million euros for all these areas that I have listed. We are aware that the composition of the budget is difficult. However, we would understand such measures when many budget users contribute significantly more to saving. One gets the feeling when walking through certain budgetary users that these financial crises are simply not for some. And when people get the feeling that everyone in a row is really tightening the belt, all budget users, both governmental and non-governmental, would probably understand that such transfers are being frozen. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have drafted amendments that remove the freezing of social transfers from the law, the freezing of pensions, the freezing of the implementation of the provisions of the Education Act and the freezing of co-financing of local community investments. If they're accepted, we'll support the bill. Otherwise, he won't get our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to government representatives as well as colleagues and colleagues! The freezing of pensions, salaries in the public sector and social transfers is technically the easiest way for the Government to curb public expenditure, but at the same time it is the most socially sensitive intervention of saving in public finances, which not only does all the expected rights of those groups, but some say can lead to a political crisis. The amended proposal, while mitigating the originally planned freezes by making the proposed quarter for the coordination of transfers and pensions. At the same time, it amends the area of the payment system of public servants and officials, as agreed with the Minister of Public Administration in exchange for the landing of trade unions to justify the implementation of the pay reform. The fact that we do not agree with such a severe cut on the incomes of pensioners in the DeSUS Group is well known for a long time. Despite our efforts to ease the intervention law of certain total freezing by the Government, there is no obedience, as the Government insists stubbornly on its offer. She is prepared to offer a maximum of one quarter for the reconciliation of pensions. The proposal for a half-freezing, i.e. maintaining the current coordination, for the budget, according to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, would not be sustainable. The symbolic amount of solidarity for the generations that have built this country, working compared to today's impossible working conditions, and also voluntarily giving up payment for work and consequently higher pensions, is an offer that is humiliating and unacceptable. The Government's position is to shift the burden of fiscal discipline as a uniform distribution of burdens between different generations. This is today in the form of an updated draft law on intervention measures at the table, which is thus equivalent to generations of pensioners with public sector staff. I ask myself: Is it appropriate to compare these two groups if we know that the average pension, together with a security allowance of EUR 575, amounts to an average old pension with a security allowance of EUR 625? Approximately 350 thousand pensioners, more than half of them, receive a pension of up to EUR 562. This is the amount of the assessment for the poverty threshold in our country. None of the employees in the public sector, which is around 160 000, receives wages below the poverty threshold. The average salaries of public officials amount to about EUR 200, which is a gross of EUR 825. This is about once more than the average pension which the amount of half of the average wage reaches in some way only with the protective allowance. Therefore, pensioners cannot be compared with the economic situation of public servants. Therefore, the condition of uniform coordination does not allow for a serious and sober assessment by those who believe that fate in belt tightening must be the same and that DeSUS views are merely selfishly directed towards the collection of political points through the representation of the partial interests of a particular population. The second thing to be clarified about the coordination of pensions is as follows. In its financial assessment for the proposed measures for 2011 and 2012, the Government assessed that the budget should provide 100 million for the coordination of pensions if there was no freezing. On 28 September this year, the Act on the Conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, which sets out the obligation to transfer EUR 50 million and the purpose of using these funds, namely the harmonisation of pensions. The share of the funds needed for the coordination of pensions will therefore be drawn from Kad in the coming year by purposeful use. Purpose of the remittance When it is to maintain the value of pensions. According to the Minister's reply to a written question from the previous meeting of the National Assembly, these 50 million are not planned in the budget and not in the proposed law. So if we maintain the valid half-valorisation of pensions, this means that it is a half-lower amount, which is due either way on the basis of the law to provide Kad every year. For this reason, too, we strongly insist on our proposal, as at least part of the source provided for and intended for the coordination of pensions will be based on this law. However, if regular coordination of pensions requires more than Kad intended, it is unacceptable for us to respond that the public funds of this obligation to pensioners cannot be secured and that it is not possible to achieve sufficient financial sustainability without full freezing or in the proposal for a law on freezing. It is not possible to forget all the tycoon stories, the high discharges received by state-owned companies' officials, all capital discharges with a view to ensuring healthy and new jobs, which today are simply not available for 102 thousand people. There is a gap in the pension fund and the result is an increase in the budget commitment, including a reduction in the contribution rate to employers, which has resulted in an increase in the number of employers since 1996. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mr. Jurša, you've been out of time for one minute. I must say, I forgot to warn you. Now I've noticed 01.08 in red numbers. That's a big freeze. Please finish your sentence. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u64	I told you, that's 8 billion euros less in the pension register. And I'm gonna end up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! When we talked about the 2011 and 2012 budgets, we were united at least in the fact that this government has to avoid high deficits and ensure the sustainability of public finances through measures. The government has decided to take short-term action. This is a concrete measure for the Law on Intervention Measures. The government is expected to ease the increase in the public financial deficit of €450 million. Without the implementation of this law, the proposed budgets on which we have talked should provide 100 million for the coordination of pensions, 35 million for social transfers, 12 million for the subsidisation of the kindergarten price and 303 million for the salaries and allowances of public servants. Since the government has apparently found that it does not have this money, it has proposed this law. It is perfectly understandable that the Government is looking for some form of short-term action. The government, however, is a representative of coalition parties and the first thing that surprises us afterwards is that in individual articles of the Government and these parties are inconsistent. If the government has decided to take such action, then it would expect the coalition to support such measures. Of course, it hurt me so much when I saw at the meeting of my mother's working body, that the same ones who support us would all have to tighten our belts once, at all ends and places, if it goes that way, now they'll ease it. I just got the image, someone comes in, hits you with a whip on your back, then you come in with God's fat, with a husband, and you smooth it pretty, and you say it's not that bad. What did we do? Bad will, quarrels, people will be angry. The effect of this law — 450 million, with any changes, will not be the adoption of amendments. There will be no such effect or even no effect. And one more thing I don't understand is that I'm going to hang myself, and I'm speaking very objectively to article 11, which violates the Law on the Financing of the Communities, because it's determined what percentage is given to the congregations in the law, but it's been ruled out and it's been laid down by another. Like, I'd be skeptical here. Here I am looking for a reason where the Law on Community Financing does not allow this law on intervention measures, in my opinion, to be over it. And given that the municipalities do a great deal for the state and the citizens, hugely, receive huge commitments from all the municipalities, with much less financial support for these obligations, at least this part is not clear for the Slovenian National Party. Otherwise, it would be right and fair for such a law to be adopted if it is really necessary, if it is necessary, to save itself in order to avoid 450 additional millions from I do not know any other resources to adopt this law on intervention measures in its original form. Any purchase of amendments will destroy this effect, and in such a case we will absolutely oppose this law and both budgets in the Slovenian National Party, because such trade would not go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the minister and to the minister and to the coworkers! Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say right away in the introduction that we will support the proposed law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia because we are aware of the seriousness of the situation and defend the view that the burden of the crisis must be borne by both those who create and those who benefit part of what has been created through public funds. However, by maintaining or strengthening social measures in times of crisis, we are particularly concerned that those with the lowest income and those who lose their jobs receive safety nets. This is precisely the objective pursued by the proposed intervention law. In fact, finding a fragile balance between spreading the burden of the crisis and finding new balance is always accompanied by social shocks, dissatisfaction, disagreements. This law is once again unpopular, but it necessarily interferes with the area of social transfers and pensions. Therefore, the proposed law does not affect the content of individual rights, unlike other countries, but it does only preserve sustainable rights at this level. If legal coordination were to be allowed, there would be almost a limit to the stability of public finances, since for this, we could also call it a non-developmental part of the expenditure to be additionally indebted. However, as we are also aware in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the cost of living is increasing and that the lowest income in pensions, social transfers and even the lowest wages are already at nominally low levels, we supported the proposal that coordination in these categories of expenditure be carried out in coordination of 25% or more of the popularly heard quarter. Given the crisis situation and the fact that the serious stabilisation of public finances would require full freezing on the one hand and given the poor material situation of those receiving pensions and social transfers on the other, we believe that quarterly coordination is unfortunately appropriate, a compromise solution and the only possible solution. However, we must point out that we do not support any solutions that, due to their political power, would put only one group of people at the forefront. In our House of Members, we have long advocated a solution for this coordination in the pension field only in order to allow better conditions for those who are in really the most difficult situation. This is said to be a disproportionate, disharmony with those who have the lowest pensions, but unfortunately we have not been heard so far. Reasons should be sought primarily on the other hand. Of course, we are aware of both the legal and the other limitations. However, we believe that if we were willing, we could focus on those who really need help in this country right now. As Members, however, we must have before our eyes a decision on actions, on laws in particular, that we have been elected as Members and Members of all citizens and citizens and that society is a interconnected fabric. It is therefore necessary to treat all social groups equally. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we view politics as regulating common or social areas on behalf of all people, regardless of their political or interest. From this title, the burdens of the crisis must be fairly, fairly and evenly redistributed in view of their economic situation. As already mentioned in the introduction, in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First of all, I would like to remind you that we will first discuss the articles and the amendments tabled. And immediately after that, there will be a vote. This will be done because you will now receive a review of the amendments tabled as a tool for your decision. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments, namely the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. I warn you, of course, the amendments are identical. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. So, we're talking about Article 2, president?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u71	On the amendment of your Group of Members to Article 2 or the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. Both amendments, otherwise separated, are identical. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! I have already announced these amendments in explanation of the Group's position. Amendments which are going towards withdrawing from the freezing of some after our assessment of important social transfers, pensions and so on from this law on intervention measures. Once again, I would like to stress something else that seems to me to have somehow created some fog. In fact, people think that the freezing of pensions is part of the pension reform. This needs to be made clear today that this is not such that pension reform is one and that the freezing of pensions is another and that this is part of this law that we are dealing with today. Therefore, in this Article 2 we propose that this Article be deleted. In fact, we believe that it is still necessary to consider and see whether it is right to freeze children's allowances, child care allowances, large family allowances, child support supplements, parental allowances, social assistance, unemployment benefits, disability allowances, aid and services, and so on. However, we believe that these few less than 150 million, which are covered by these three freezes, namely these social transfers, the freezing of pensions, those relating to kindergartens and the co-financing of investments in local and public infrastructure, namely in municipalities, can also be saved in all those budgetary consumers that, according to our assessment, are spending too much. We have also proved this through an amendment that we will table both in the 2011 budget and in the 2012 budget. Therefore, the consumption of budget consumers who have nothing to do with this financial crisis should return to the 2008 starting year, which is the year of fat cows, as you often like to say, reduced by 5 percentage points. This would save some less than €200 million in 2011 as well as in 2012. We propose that this article be deleted so as not to freeze social transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments tabled in Article 2? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SLS Group. Both amendments are essentially the same. I'm opening a debate. Anyone want to discuss the amendments? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on this amendment and Article. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. In doing so, I reiterate that the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of the SLS Group are substantively the same. I'm opening a debate. Excuse me? Yeah. I'm just gonna ask for an application so there won't be any. [[...]] Anton Urh has the word. I noticed, Willy Rezman will be third, then we'll open if we have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. The DeSUS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4 of the intervention law on the home working body. However, this amendment to the home labour body was vehemently rejected and the parliamentary group re- tabled an amendment to the National Assembly. It is about coordination, half-coordination of pensions in 2011. The government has by no means agreed to 50%, half-time reconciliation of pensions with salary growth in 2011. Let me say that this coordination takes about 82 million. In a capital company or 50 million, it is provided by the title Kad. Let me remind you that about one month ago, we adopted the Capital Society Act in this National Assembly and it is explicitly stated in Article 6 that the Capital Society is liable every year for up to 30 years. 9. deposit or deposit EUR 50 million in the PSI for the coordination of pensions. Another 32 million is needed. However, the government does not intend and does not wish to approve these 32 million. We have some concerns here, but they're not just like that. Look, the government has money for Greek pensioners. The government has money to stabilise the euro. That's what I support. The government has the money for, for the third time, to recapitalise the Ljubljana Bank. This is the bank that lends loans to various tycoons and famous Slovenians and Slovenes. This government, however, has no money for pensioners, amounting to 32 million. It's sad. Let me say that pensioners are not a social category. Pensioners are an economic category and pensioners have paid for their income for long years of work. And let me put it this way: 53% of the 530 thousand pensioners are on the verge of poverty. Of these, 12,000 pensioners receive pensions below 200 euros, 45,000 receive pensions below 300 euros and 130 000 under 500 euros. In the past, the money invested by pensioners in PPIZ was used entirely for purposes other than pensions. In fact, we need to know that the money from the P.I.S.C. was used to run highways, to build a Caravan tunnel, to make apartments. Even those who then sold for 10,000 marks and even cheaper. [[adverts from benches]] After 10,000 marks, I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u75	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u76	The government has done very little or almost nothing in this budget on the revenue side. In fact, the revenue side of the budget could also be greater if it at least partially affected the grey economy. We know that the grey economy is publicly recognised from €5 billion to €9 billion. This is as much as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Then the non-payment to the pension fund, the debtors. I don't think it's for 840 million, and the government didn't do that to make those debtors pay into the pension fund. More than that, she encouraged them. At times, when SDK was deceased, he did not allow monthly income to be paid until social and pension benefits were paid. Of course, it is the easiest to save or take away the one that is the most accessible, and these are pensioners, these are the socially weak, open the computer, look at the number and the thing is done. I might also wish for you, my fellow Members, when you have the conditions for retirement, that you will have a more reasonable government to an older population than the Government today. One more thing, when the government has agreed to a 25% increase in pensions, I must immediately say that pensioners, as I said before, are not social transfers, but pensioners cannot also be victims of the public sector. The DeSUS Group, unless this amendment is adopted, will also not support the intervention law. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to support this amendment. This would allow, at least in part, to prevent pensioners from falling into even greater poverty in which they are currently living. However, many have lost their dignity in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. With the amendment to Article 4, we want to prevent the freezing of pensions. We believe, however, that this is too harsh a radical measure to replace this measure with a number of other measures. I have repeatedly stressed that our ministries will spend around €10 billion in 2011, while these same ministries spent 8 and a half million euros in 2008. In short, an increase of a billion and a half. And in two years, we'll spend 3 billion euros more than we could. I agree with some parts of the budget where there is a need to deal with the financial economic crisis in the area of social, economic, efficiency and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but the areas in this budget where there is no reason for these budgetary consumers to increase their spending in relation to that year of fat cows. I do not understand that we will freeze pensions for those, not only those high-ranking pensioners and others who have good pensions, but also those who have a farmer's pension, 100, 200, 300 euros waiting for each euro raise and that euro raise is worth more than many other thousands of euros. More! And today we're talking about freezing it too, not getting that 1 euro, or 2 or 3 or 10. I have such a case in my family, a wife over seventy years old, still working in the field today, with a hoax. At 150, 180 euro farm pension. She's worked her whole life! And now we decide to freeze such ones too, and we will not take anything away from them, but we will not give them what might belong to them, given the increase in wages. If wages are raised for various reasons during this crisis period, it is fair, correct and fair that pensions also grow for the same proportion. I think it's some kind of intergenerational solidarity. Isn't it? That's a lot to talk about. I believe that the focus of saving should be targeted at those budget consumers who have nothing with the financial economic crisis to tighten their employment belts in the public sector, pressure the directors of agencies, offices and so on to save something, for God's sake. That's what the real Prime Minister would do! I've warned you about this a few times in this house. Let him hit the table and ask all these directors to save something, not just demand from the bottomless bag, "yet, give us more, yet, we need for computers, we need another." There's no money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u79	Willi Rezman also has the word because I said before, and then the application will be reopened, and so did Mr Minister. It's called Willy Rezman, the Minister, and the application. Please, Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, personally, I have already mentioned two or three times that I am also not satisfied with the fact that it goes very differentiated with restrictions and that we are also burdening those who are either below the average of income, either on a level or at the threshold of poverty. In doing so, however, I would like to reject all those who are trying to exploit their own interests and denunciation by taking only those who are the worst, because I could not agree with this. I would like to point out that even when it comes to pensions, it goes to this amendment, if it were accepted, in order for the limitation of pensions to be eliminated at all. And not just those who have the least. Also to those, say, and such are some 10,000, who have two or three times the salary of a public sector employee who cleans, who does some other work that is really hard to survive. That is why I think it would be right for those who advocate this differentiation to say that it is therefore a matter of protecting those who are most at risk. And there is no reason to protect those who have a thousand 500 or what I know, even more euros even though they have pensions. The other thing I'd like to say is, if you'd taken into account all the amendments that were proposed, it would have happened to us, there would be nothing left. There would be only a restriction on the coordination of salaries for officials, which would otherwise be fine, but there would not be a clear strike in the budget. That would be really overly ambitious. Therefore, I point out that those who are able to bear the burden should not be able to bear it. However, it is likely that we should point out something else that went hand in hand with these restrictions. However, some measures and laws have been taken in parallel. Some are already in force and some will enter into force in the following year. There he tried to take care of those with low incomes, such as the Minimum Wages Act, as well as those laws that would only come into force if we were talking about the Labour Market Coordination Act or the Social Benefit Act. It would be wise not to look only dimensionally or to emphasize only what is bad in these suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry, I'm asking you to apply again. Is that it? If no one has any objection to this list, I'll give you the word mags first. Andre Vissiak and then after that list. Do we have a report or not? I accidentally pressed it again. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. That's a very unique way of reporting it, but good. Thank you very much, President. I will probably use a few arguments in explaining the amendment to Article 4, which I have put forward in the budget and budget documents, as this law and the budget for the next two years are closely linked acts. So here we have the Law on Intervention Measures, which save mainly non-selective and, of course, also at the expense of the country's weakest social layers. Also at the expense of those who very difficult to tie the end to the end of all month due to low pensions, as well as other benefits and transfers. It is necessary to ask whether the Government has taken advantage of all other potentials to cut and cut these people as well. In the opposition, we do not believe that the Government still has a lot of resources to save a lot of money elsewhere and that it is difficult to convince those measures to be necessary when watching through TV screens the continued wealth of individuals who are generally leading state-owned companies or any of the influences on government capital. Look, there is only one example that I will mention, which is also the subject of one law that we have tabled, and it is likely to be the subject of a discussion in this Parliament in a short time. It's so-called silent society. We have Mr Toplek, Director of State Enterprise, who was a silent associate of a silent associate in the construction company Ptuj, who dealt with the same Talum. Of course, he claimed EUR 5 million from the owner or carrier of a silent company because he was a silent participant inside. The man imagined that he could actually make such a fortune. I'd say there's still a lot of cases like that. We have Mrs Hildo Tobut and her business and property manoeuvres through foreign companies, and that's what people are watching. On the one hand, this is what people are watching, and on the other hand, the government tells them that there can be no other way that public finances are threatened, that the country will collapse if pensions are halved. I just don't think that's true. Worse. It's not fair and it's not right for these people who've been paying contributions to the pension fund and now they're expecting, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u83	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u84	that they will revalue themselves, that they will maintain at least some of the real value, as I would say, but not that they will not fully coordinate or either [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u85	In the left corner of the hall, I ask for peace! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u86	or that they will only coordinate in a quarter as they are now, I see some compromise. [[...]] The government will not save public finances through this postponement and freezing. The government can resolve public finances through structural interventions into the system of expenditure and also revenue. It is only in this way that public finances can also be stabilised and balanced permanently over the longer term. By freezing something today, it will have to be defrosted. Once it's defrosted, someone's going to demand that frozen back, for which he'll have purely legitimate and legal rights. The problem will be even greater then, and someone will be more burdened than they would be. That is why I believe that these solutions are, indeed, such a fire escape, and are, in fact, unacceptable because in six months or one year from now, when the problem is even greater, the government will come again with new firepower measures that will further affect these same vulnerable and affected layers. So, with respect to the Government, I already gave you one case today, and since it wasn't, I don't know if there were five colleagues, I'll give it one more time. We have schools in this country where there are probably as many teachers as there are students. The average of an expert in Slovenian education is that there is one professional worker in 7 students if we consider administrators, janitors and power-trainers. I don't know if we can figure out who's doing this, but if we're eating with or not knowing what else we're doing at school, it's probably one teacher per 8 students. Some 20 years ago, there were twice as many students per teacher in this country. You know what happened? This, I'd say, reverberatively blue minister for education, did something else. He proposed a law that further cut off the founder from the school. Indeed, the founder now has only one opinion in the appointment of the director and is, in fact, a self-government system because teachers have a majority and appoint a director. Which means we've come up with one systemic problem. When money is very uncontrolled in a public service sector, we have little influence and no idea. Don't ask me to sell that because we have such a relationship between teachers and students, there is a higher quality of education. Which is not confirmed by any expert analysis and study that there are exactly eight students per one true combination. I just wanted to tell you on one occasion where we're running out of money with thick profiles from the state or public system. Another example is that capital investment management agency, which I think is a purely simple bluff, purely a mere concealment of the policy of intervention in the economy. In fact, that agency will be a sinful goat for all the things that will happen from now on. She was also a sinful goat for the removal of Mr Rotnik from leadership at the Hemoelectrica Šostjanj. By the way, I hear that this new director can only enter the company with the police today. Where does your human resources paradigm come from? What am I trying to say? I want to say that that capital investment management agency has €317 000 of the 2011 budget. With 317 000 euros you will not tell me that all the companies managed by this agency can be managed, i.e. with all energy, the whole financial sector, the insurance sector, Luka Koper, Telekom and so on. How will 5 people physically manage how will only go to the congregations of these companies? How will some professional backgrounds be prepared for such congregations and so on? So someone's gonna serve these people. They'll be served by the ministries. Don't tell me then that the agency will be independent in managing these capital investments. It's about one mask, it's about one shield of politics from the obvious that it manages, as you would say, a scam to the OECD that you sold him this story, but it's a new approach, etc. So, what am I trying to say? I want to say that there are countless ways in which the country can save money. It is innumerable and sad that, in two years of operation of this government, we did not get these measures at the table under the laws. On the contrary, we were getting proposals for new and new parastatal authorities. No wonder the number of public officials in this government's mandate has risen to 160 000 and is 4 thousand 300 more than when the government took its seats. So, instead of going in the opposite direction in times of crisis – I hope you are reading what is going on in England or in some other countries, when they are encroaching and radically interfering in the public sector – the public sector is developing, which is progressing nicely, without restrictions, which is actually semi-administratively organised. No wonder it develops like a sponge. Here you have found pensioners, not just pensioners, recipients of social transfers, who need to be taken together and squeezed to the end. Here you go also in the coalition of this political game, DeSUS yes, DeSUS no, who will now take his place and now, in the end, if this matter is not voted today, DeSUS will earn it. What about us here on this side when we oppose this proposal and we are 27? So, what I'm saying is that this thing has become totally politicized, that it is also criminal, and that there will be no objective with these proposals at all. We will be faced with new and new similar fire proposals that will put off problems, do not address the causes of problems and therefore build up a problem that will only be bigger in the future, problems will be more difficult to solve. Remember, too, the opposition's predictions a year and a half ago, the more you delay the necessary measures to address the causes of this, the more painful these measures will be. And maybe today we're just on the first step of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As it turns out, this political game has already revealed itself. One party or one party shall play the card to obtain as many votes as possible as Desus. The other other coalition is buying players to win this football game, and basically, who's going to pay for it all. Expensive tickets will be paid to retirees to watch a bad game, where judges will cheat as they can. They're talking about, earlier, colleague Vizjak said to the Capital Investment Management Agency, and there's 317 thousand euros. That's exactly what they pay for these five people. Approximately, if everyone has about 5,000 euros a month's salary, it's for those employees going there, doing what they're going to do, maybe saving crossword puzzles or something like that. In fact, they will not have to do anything; they will have a ministry or government that will do as it seems to her, as she thinks it will be best for her. On the other hand, we throw money out the window everywhere. 30 million euros a year is in Afghanistan. So what are we gonna get out of this? Nothing. The Slovenian government is funding NGOs in Kosovo. What's in it for us? We are interfering with strange things, from which we will have absolutely nothing, except someday we will pay these costs and other such things. But nobody cares, nobody cares about the minister, nobody cares about the president of the government, nobody in the government, because the government doesn't care what happens and what happens, just that it's gonna be okay. And since the government is counting on the pensioners to forget about the various promises and what happened to them by the next term, they can go through them peacefully. The fact is, we know that people forget such promises. They were promised a thousand euros in pension by DeSUS. Today, DeSUS promises them to fight for them. They will fight with their voices. The votes of all the other opposition that rises – this counts nothing. It'll only count to one customer. Of course, the coalition on the other hand with the players bought will play its game. I think people should think a little bit about their moves and their thoughts. I hope that even some independent journalists will be able to write those who hope to write that the government does not tell them what they can and can't do, go to some analysis and give some more real picture than we see here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. It is a very difficult debate when we talk about how to coordinate the personal benefits of all those on the verge of survival who accept all these things and barely survive from month to month. This makes it more difficult to listen to the misleading information we hear here today. A little while ago, a fellow Member spoke about 30 million for Afghanistan. That is not true, 30 million for all the peace operations provided by the Slovenian Army. Most of this money is actually for Kosovo and the salaries of soldiers, 400, and some are probably close to thousands. These are our people, the people sent from Slovenia. But it could be too much, and it would be good if we didn't have to give it, and if there was peace in the world and there was no danger of general security. It is also difficult to listen when someone says that pensioners have 200, 300, 400 euros in pension. I guess someone's got so much, they're probably the ones who have so much. But in Slovenia it is accepted that the maximum amount of the minimum pension should be 444,40 euros in this year for the full pension period and for the full working time. This is what I agree with my colleagues in DeSUS that the pension is not a social transfer, but it is earned and is the result of the work that someone has done. That is why, of course, there are different pensions and they are at different heights. However, in Slovenia, which is a social state, someone who fails to do so also has the opportunity to obtain additional goods, which is called a social policy allowance. For someone who is entitled to achieve a minimum pension or even exceeds it because he has several family members to maintain. When we have proposed in the three coalition groups, if anything is already being coordinated, despite the fact that the first proposal was to do nothing, then it must be for all categories financed from the budget, such social security allowances, because there are also people who do not get enough to survive, namely, for all those who account for their pensions. Also public servants, of course. These, by the way, have a minimum wage of EUR 562 in Slovenia. And believe me, you're having a hard time too. And these are not small – 4 thousand 187 according to Ipes data in August 2010 or 39 thousand 197 in the real sector that are receiving such a salary now. And they all finance both the budget and the spending. And because of the attitude towards these people, all these categories of people have to be treated equally. My offense to the DeSUS proposal, why are only pensioners in this segment – why not all, why not all? Why not? Why not in a different way? Simply because they said that it is no longer 25 to 30 million, as it is now a quarter, but it can also exceed 100 million and more million, which are not in the public finances system in the budget. The Committee on Finance made it very clear, "there is still a good EUR 500 million of direct investment in the budget."We are all talking here because we will then consider the budget, that the promotion of investment also with state money and local community money is one of the fundamental reasons for us to drive this growth vehicle forward. If we also spend this money, and I am not saying that it will not be fairly distributed, but if we spend it, even these 500 million investment incentives will not be possible from the budget, except that we will additionally owe the country, further burden public finances and consequently come into an unenviable position, which, of course, could be another country's scenario, already known. And it is not true, at least according to my data, that the euro should be given for the crisis in Greece and these things. We made a guarantee so that the Greeks could borrow the loan on more favourable terms. Together, we have ensured a guarantee law so that if Slovenia comes into this crisis, this mechanism can be used. And I think it's important. Why? Because of the fact that pensioners, recipients of social security benefits, public servants and all of us will actually benefit from these things. From this point of view, it is reasonable to support the intervention law as it is to try to implement what has been proposed and coordinated with the Government for this quarter, however small or in any way we achieve that the pace of coordination does not die. And I think this is where the greatest added value is in this area. Almost there, but let's go. It will probably be possible, of course, when we adopt the 2012 budget, to increase either by half or even more if economic growth and the situation in public finances are greater, and so that we can have full coordination in 2013, 2014, 2015 and thus breathe a little easier. In this respect, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party should not be supported, nor should the amendment of the DeSUS Group, but the text of the day also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u92	Dear Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! I have said many times in this House, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the Government is going to solve the economic crisis in the Republic of Slovenia at the very wrong end. There have been freezes of social transfers, subsidisation in the payment of kindergartens, financing of municipalities, the freezing of pensions and so on, rather than looking for solutions where they are key. And that's where the army of the unemployed is. Where there are 120 and more thousand unemployed, which should be taken care of, create conditions for them to be able to work. If these conditions were created and there were now 55 000 of them there in 2008, the government would not have these problems because it would not have faced such a problem at all. It is unacceptable, incomprehensible, that the Government is trying to solve the problem of the economic crisis on pensioners, those who have 200, 300, 400 and 500 euros in pensions. He's trying to solve the economic crisis on these pensioners. Does that seem like the right approach to you, dear Social Democrats? Is that the right approach? Is that what they loved you for? That is why the voters elected this coalition to resolve the economic situation of this country in the most vulnerable groups of this country. [[adverts from benches]] Allow me, darling, I have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u93	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u94	the right to speak in this House. [[...]] No one's gonna take that away from me, and neither are you, the Social Democrats. You didn't give me that right. You gave it to me. The electorate and the electorate gave it to me. That is why I have the right to speak in this House in the way I imagine it and is in line with the order in force in the National Assembly. It does not say, however, the Rules of Procedure do not say what tone of voice someone in this House must speak with. So let me have the right to say what I think, and don't bother me, [[...]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u95	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u96	to continue my debate. [[...]] Look, this government is building its story of solving this economic problem on the shoulders of the most vulnerable groups in this country. And who are they? These are pensioners, I will repeat again, those who have 200, 300, 400, 500 euros in pension. Have any of you ever wondered whether this pension is possible to survive, or has anyone asked these people? No one, I'm sure, in this House now, no one! Because I know why not. Because nobody felt this problem because I've never had 300, 400 or 500 euros a month in my pocket. That's why you can't feel what it feels like to those people. It would be very important to try to focus on these vulnerable groups in our Republic of Slovenia, which are more every day, but you have not done so. You're going as a roller coaster over everything. Freezing, excises I don't have words, actually, what else can I add to this? [[...]] We have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 2, Article 3 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Because we do not agree to the philosophy that rules in this coalition and in this government that it is necessary to burden those who have the least. This is not true philosophy, it is the extremely wrong approach of every government, every ruler. Believe me, Slovenians and Slovenians are not unreasonable enough to understand that you are working against their interests. This is a truth that cannot be forgotten. Dear Members and Members, I am sure that such a law as the Government has brought to the National Assembly is not nearly acceptable to the situation in this country. And if I may point out, look on the other hand, today, my colleague from DeSUS has laid down quite a few reasons why it is not possible to support the freezing of pensions. We have money, as he said, for Greece, to solve the Greek problem. We have money to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank, which has been shown to it recently. How much irresponsible moves have been made and how much money is in the back of the game. Besides, if we just look at Dars and the problems with these unfortunate highways, building highways. 2 billion or maybe even more euros were spent because they were not transparent tenders. If we just look at the last case of a government visit to America. So two, three delegations have spent 130 thousand euros! You've read what the papers say. Isn't that what you're worried about? Do you wonder what the government is doing there when he can spend that kind of money? Here we talk about the need to freeze pensions for those who have 200, 300, 400 euros! I don't understand. I just don't understand that this government doesn't overlook this coalition. Not to mention the tycoons we have in this Slovenian country. Let's see Mr Kramar where the Ljubljana Bank is today, and he's got a million Euros of retirement. Isn't that an alarming situation in this country? And you could say, "Dear colleagues and colleagues." Therefore, I personally strongly oppose such measures proposed by the current government to seek solutions in the National Assembly on the Economic Social Crisis in the most vulnerable groups. Once again, I believe that you will understand that these are the mistakes of this government, which are not acceptable to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, at least for those who cannot survive. In these freezings, you did not ask yourself what about those employees who have not received a salary for six months, how to survive and so on, for whom no social contributions have been paid. You didn't do anything about it. Here you are doing and doing things that are written to the detriment of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and you bring them to the full floor. They don't have a decent life anyway, and then they have to take what they have anyway. On the other hand, like I said, tycoons and the whole story of those who live beautifully, who have huge salaries of 10, 11, 12 thousand euros. Every day you watch in these newspapers and read how many people have that kind of salary. Where is that mutual solidarity here in this country? Where is it here in this country that is essential that a community can work together? I think this government and this coalition have lost their compass for the next 100 years, not just for the two years ahead of them. I am sure that citizens and citizens will understand this in the right way. Therefore, once again, I am very happy to support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I will absolutely vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! When it comes to saving or limiting spending under normal conditions, it is right to maintain the relationship between salaries and pensions. But when it comes to emergency situations, to the crisis, then it would be better to find a solution if those at the bottom left alone, expected and implemented a contribution to the resolution of those who have something more than social ones, and will, in any event, survive this crisis when their rights are frozen. Of course, the intervention law is aimed at trying as much as possible and among as many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as possible to share this burden of crisis and is designed to propose freezing or coordination, the quarterly harmonisation of the rights of everyone in this country. The requirement that only one group, such as pensioners, should be given more, is half the wage increase, this requirement means nothing more than that the minimum wage provider should finance the pension of a thousand EUR 600 net. Nothing else. Those who thus understand solidarity live in one wrong world, for solidarity means that those who have contributed to the outcome of the crisis and to preserve the solidarity of all those who are already on the brink of poverty with their minimum wage, at the limit of EUR 562 so far, and will, if their revenues are not coordinated, go below this limit, if not for more, to the level of inflation. This means that this law does not fully solve the problem, but unfortunately for such a change that income, wages, pensions and social transfers are frozen only to a certain extent, but there is no solution. But it is that everyone gets the same, still better than getting one less to get more who don't need it. In doing so, of course, I am deeply aware that there are many more, 100,000 pensioners who have a pension, a pension below 600 euros, for which it would be right to get more than we have at our disposal. But here's the problem that when there's nowhere to go, when there's an economic crisis, we just can't do that. If this option were still feasible, I would propose an amendment that no income in this country, if any, should be reduced below 562 or below the annual poverty threshold, regardless of what this means for all others. With others, higher up, freezing, for example. That would be a fairer solution than the existing one, but right now it can't be done. However, I am sure that in six months this law could be rectified in this respect, if necessary, in particular if it will be necessary. I think there is already a calculated threshold of poverty over this amount to keep it as high as possible, not to say, at the time of the crisis, the highest possible level of solidarity on the part of all those who will survive if we are frozen in full or even reduced, for example, by paying. It is true, however, that those with high wages are insufficient to fill, significantly fill the budget register and it would be more for cosmetic or demonstration effects than for actual savings, while we can peacefully say that no one actually has a higher salary in this country except managers or those who are in one way or another, even in a disputed way, have come to the property and the work of the social property they are managing today. Everyone else does not have a high salary in the state administration and the real sector. Unfortunately, in these times of crisis, they will not be able to be substantially remedied. And with that reality, we have to count. Because of this reality, I will support this law once again with a comment in this direction that it is not fair enough about solidarity, because it will also take something from those who are down there who should not have taken anything from them if they want to talk about us being a social state and a solidarity society. However, those who are more demanding at the expense of the second, this moment is driven by populism and are gathering political points at the expense of all of us who want to do well for all of us who need it and who would be willing to support the option of making more contributions to those who can do so. Thank you very much. I think this law needs to be supported, but not this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! At least as much as I would like this law to be adopted, I would also like an amendment to Article 4 adopted and approved by the DeSUS Group. We have given it because we believe that pensioners have already made their contribution in this time of crisis, that they have shared this burden and that they have accepted this burden, just as everyone else has. It seems to us that the decline, the coordination by 50% is already a nice addition and a nice contribution by pensioners to making the country more manageable and easier to live. Today, when we discuss our amendment to Article 4, it seems very sad to me that some of the interpretations in this regard and in relation to our Group of Members are completely depressed and completely wrong. We are not making this amendment to gain political points. We don't table amendments to be popular with pensioners anywhere else. We are investing it because we believe it is right to take care of this intervention law and look at this very vulnerable group, such as pensioners, not all of them, but the vast majority of those who live on the brink of existence and on the threshold of poverty. And we cannot afford to continue this state of affairs and their social exclusion and social isolation. With 50% of coordination, we will not achieve much. However, there is some comfort for the pensioners, at least for the few euros they will receive. Above all, this harmonisation would further reduce this gap between wage growth and pension growth. We could talk about other transfers, but it can be unique, like a Christmas tree, like a regression and so on. However, coordination by 50% is systemic. This systemic character will remain and help to make this breakthrough smaller and not as big as we do not want it to be. Whoever tabled such an amendment, including Mr Jelinčič, would like to strongly support it. By saying that we are gaining some political points, we are absolutely not holding back, and it is not the right thing to do. Is the 32 million needed to harmonise 50% large? Is this a resource that the state can't at this time? Is that really so crucial that it doesn't work? I don't think it's that big of a money. In general, if we look at all the arguments that have been said today, even then, a month or two ago when we reshaped capital companies and explicitly stated in this law that 50 million are intended for the coordination of pensions. It also disturbs us that the money that was somehow provided would somehow be lost and interpreted as if this money were not there and that coordination is impossible. Some in this Chamber consider this to be blackmailing, blackmailing the DeSUS Group in the adoption of intervention law. Do not take it for granted that this is blackmail. This is a kind of honest, inclined and honest slope that is not just felt by us in the Desus Group. I hear that it is felt by others, that we help and provide in some way for this part, which is represented by pensioners and pensioners, in this minimum part and with a minimum move when adopting the intervention law. Above all, those who are now on the brink of existence and the minimum of living. Those who advocate 25% of coordination is enough for them, go look in front of Karitas, go to the Red Cross where our pensioners stand and wait for food distribution and financial assistance. We need to be afraid of this, or we need to be concerned about it. Then it will probably be no longer a question of whether 25% or 50% of the harmonisation. Of course, we are aware that the country is in a difficult situation and that this burden must certainly be distributed. And let's split up into the ones you talked about today. To those where it's something to distribute and which we can load. Pensions and the burden of pensions are possible when enough money is available when pensions are high. Today, when pensions are like that, I think any move that reduces these pensions and increases the gap between pensions and increases wages is completely meaningless and invariable. Therefore, the DeSUS Group, together with the others who have discussed this amendment to Article 4, rightly expects and hopes for your judgment and your constructiveness even when it comes to this target group, which you somehow attribute to us. No, no, the pensioners are ours, they are from all of us, not just from the Desus Group and so it was right for you to understand this and in that sense confirm this amendment to Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u102	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I fully understand the views of DeSUS because it is a party of pensioners. I understand they want the best for the pensioners. But tell me one Member in this National Assembly who does not want the best for the pensioners and all the inhabitants of this Slovenia. From the very beginning, this government has been making every effort to improve the lives of the poorest. When the crisis began, we all remember, and at that time you, colleagues from DeSUS, agreed that this government had decided to significantly increase the funds for social transfers. This is very rarely done by the government in the European Union. Everyone was saving the banks, everyone was solving a variety of groups of those who caused this crisis throughout the world. Now let us look at the situation in Europe and the world. Pays are falling everywhere in the public sector. People are forgiving everywhere in the public sector. Pensions are falling everywhere. Not with us. With us, however, nothing is reduced, nothing is forgiven, but it is trying to reconcile, that is to say, partially increase. And you say we should raise it even more than we can. 32 million euros, that's what my colleagues told you before me. It's not 32 million euros, but let's multiply it with all the ones they also have to get. For example, you cited those lowest pensions. We have also proposed in the preparation of this budget to help those with the lowest to save only those with the lowest pensions, but there was no agreement. No, all pensions are required. I will tell you, some, even in my wider family, have a pension on their account, and thank God that is so, a good pension that is significantly higher than the salaries of people with high education in the public sector. Not all pensions are problematic. The lowest are problematic. And here we agree, and we are ready to help. But such an amendment, understand us, we cannot support it. And in the end, I heard from the opposition a tip on the tycoons. Dear colleagues, the tycoons are slowly processing through the police, through the prosecution, through other competent authorities, for my taste too slowly. During your term of office, they agreed to share their profits in the cabinet of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u104	Look, the honourable Member has just said that these so-called tycoons are now proceeding through prosecutors, law enforcement agencies. However, in a certain mandate of the previous government, of course, as I would say, they were free to move and develop. I would remind you of the affair and, finally, the process of a clean shovel. The mandate of the previous government was those who, at the expense of the overpaid highway crossing, owned key construction companies in the country, and now for these same Mr. Pahor is going to lobby for operations in Libya. Cleaning, not just that. The process is not going anywhere, and even more, the process has begun against those who have started this process. Against those who have investigated and, finally, have also arrested the participants in the Pure shovel affair, they are now being investigated. And gentlemen who are the subject and should have been long behind bars have received special ratings and hearings. So, Your Honor, I would like to reiterate that this statement by the lady before me is not even in the approximate correlation with any facts or truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u106	Well, I think everyone would be happy if we talked in Pahor's office about how they would share profits in state-owned companies, but obviously not. They don't talk, I'm sorry. This is also why we have this marriage on this table today because there is loss everywhere. And even where it's not there, these police policies will slowly create this loss, or the profits will flow into other spheres. When I listen to this debate today between individual parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, especially in the case of the old DeSUS and the new DeSUS, I recall those words of President DeSUS when he spoke before the elections that if some 100,000 euros are paid and pensioners also deserve a thousand euros of minimum pension. And today, I would expect you to table an amendment that will say that those who have less than a thousand euros if, in view of the situation you are creating by way of governance, it is not possible to have a minimum of 1,000 euros to at least those who have less than a thousand euros in pensions are normally coordinated further or at least 50%, as you wrote in the intervention law for last year. But you didn't do it. Populistically old DeSUS advocates that what you accepted last year remains, the new DeSUS says, "no, now we must also squeeze the belt and bear the burden of this crisis." I have to say, it's rather unserious and unworthy. But the public seems to have fallen for these games of yours. I don't know which cabinet you agreed on this, but obviously this deal had to be arranged somewhere, because you know exactly that this law is going to go through and that there's this whole idea for the public, through which some political option strengthens its public position and nothing more. That's another thing. I think it was September this year when the Prime Minister of the National Assembly answered Members' questions and, among other things, stated that he disagreed with the indications that it would be worse this year than it was last year. He said it would be better this year than it was last year, and that those of us who say it's gonna get worse, we're wrong. And we reminded him of the realization of 1-6 this year, from which it follows that the state budget accounted for less than 120 million euros in the same period last year and drained 200 million euros more than it did in the same period last year. And we've found that based on everything we know, it's gonna get worse this year. Now I ask you, if it was better than the Prime Minister said, then what was the worse marriage? Last year it was 50% pension coordination, first you put it at 0%, and now you're advocating a quarter harmonisation. I am sure that today, with the same scale, all those who now say, "no, no, because 25% of harmonisation is good" would also advocate 0% harmonisation. This is not the most serious approach. That is why I also said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we cannot support such an approach, because however we turn, the markets around us have opened up, opened up, and this will have positive consequences in Slovenia. And instead of taking advantage of this moment and coming with measures that would at least partially compensate the late one, which did not do last year, in addition to some restrictions, but not in these areas where it is not necessary, it came with an intervention law where it first became concrete, nothing can be coordinated, because otherwise it is a disaster, because it is 450 million euros a year. Now we've figured something out. Maybe if we negotiated a little more, there'd be more. At least as far as the pension is concerned and their coordination is concerned, this amount, which is foreseen here, will not in any way endanger or save public finances. The approach shows that you are ready to go this way in 2013 and 2014. Until when? However, it would have been time for something to be done on the tides into all state cash registers. In order to take measures that, through increased economic growth and job creation, will allow more inflows to all state-owned cash and, beyond that, will enable funds to be made available for both transfers and for all that this cash issue. We have also repeatedly said that in the part where we talk about addressing the weaknesses of rigid systems, which we have in all areas practically, in the administration, in the health sector, in the school system, that, of course, we support those things that will eliminate these weaknesses, including the creation of order in social transfers and so on. However, not in the most elegant and bureaucratic way you used it last year, which was still somehow understandable. However, we are now at the end of 2010, we are not witnessing such figures on economic growth when we saw last year. You still come or your government comes with even more restrictive law than last year. And the assessment of the financial implications with 100% of the pension freeze is around 100 million euros, 50 % about thirty-five and 25 % about twelve. Now look, now it would be really interesting to see these numbers if you really went to a level of EUR 500 or 600, where there is a limit to a decent life somewhere, and these things would not be coordinated only for those who have more. These numbers would then be relatively low, and the minor numbers would be no longer problematic. Hold what has been said when such a situation, when it is necessary to approach things, must also be approached selectively. To someone with a thousand 500 euros in pension, 50 euros means something other than the one with only 300 euros. For those who have 300 euros, 50 euros is crucial, but for those who do not have a thousand 500. And the same goes for wages and everything else. This approach here, too, is not good. That is why we have also proposed, if this is already the case, and if this year is better than last year, as your Prime Minister has said, then let us stay on that law you passed last year, 50% coordination, if it is really better this year and it should be better in the next year and in the coming years. In the long run, this law will also have very bad psychological consequences because of this silence, which you are now taking with this reduction where it can be most easily done with some administrative action written within a few hours, there will not be any other measures that would be necessary and it will be necessary to take them if we want to make public finances stabilise and that this country will somehow slowly transform into a modern, modern country with an effective state apparatus and systems that will normally function through rationalisation in those who perform these services, also allowing the best quality services to users. I'm talking about all the systems I've talked about before. For this reason, it would also be right not to adopt such a law as we now have on the table. And at the same time, when it comes to talking about the need to save money in those who clenched the last hole in the belt. A while ago, not long ago, you have accepted 150 million euros for a project on Dars, which is totally unnecessary in these circumstances, some tolling, satellite or not, which no other country in Europe has. Slovenia is a small transit country, the wine system is one that is relatively cheap and most favourable for a country such as Slovenia. 150 million euros – you didn't have a problem with that. For the New Bank of Ljubljana, it is clear that it will not be a problem to adopt EUR 200 million. Not to mention all the other elements that mean some kind of public fund management, but not to mention again this unfortunate plane of falcon, which in just these two years has eaten about as much as will be saved here in kindergartens. For this reason, we think it would be right to maintain, as far as pensions are concerned, the situation that you adopted last year, at least such a state, if it is not possible to accept another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's right for me to replicate once, because I don't think it's right or fair that we're talking about a thousand euros in pension, that someone promised it, and this is about President DeSUS Carl Erjavac. We all know exactly what he said at the time, that if some tycoons in this country have millions in hundreds of millions, or even billions of amounts of capital, which they have in one way or another, and in particular incorrect and even improperly acquired, then all pensioners can also have thousands of euros in pension. Please be concrete and honest and try to discuss this in this way as has been said. Everyone likes to use it politically and tell lies. If we're politicians, we're not given to lie. We need to speak concretely and honestly, and that's how I feel about it. Those who allowed you to be in power to create these tycoons should, when you had a sceptre in your hands, pull the burden and stop. One and the other, my dears, one and the other, you had a situation in your hands. Please, we would have done so if it hadn't been for that. But since I have the floor, I'll say, one quarter of the reconciliation of pensions, respected colleagues and colleagues, means on average one newspaper, Dela per month, per pensioner. What does that mean? One day the pensioner won't read the paper. If you like that, then this one-quarter. We have proposed coordination in half because we are aware that this country is in a difficult economic situation. Why are you tying the matter to public servants and to so many and so many 100 million? Indeed, some individuals who run certain groups of pensioners should not do so. The number 253,000 pensioners living below the poverty line must be taken care of. In my opening statement, when I explained the position of the group, I said that it was very painful yesterday when I saw a gentleman on TV say this over the years — I repeat, because there were not many of you in this room at the time — when he looked at the pension and when he thinks he has to spend a month, he thinks that he would rather die. But these people, my dears, are not so few in this country. And that's what this client stands for. Not only is this party, because you are also taking some others for it, but if we stand up for it, if we want to help these people, then we will take a step to help them, not to speak favorably.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u109	Mr. Jursha, I'm afraid the time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u110	I'll be done. I'm not going to continue to argue if you're restricting me, but I still think it was right that I warned you about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u111	Next time you apply to the debate, you'll have more time. There's no replica to the replica. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear President, the replica was not intended to explain the wrong statements, but if I listened to my colleague Jurša, I gave about the same comparison as he said. It is true that I did not compare millions, but thousands of minimum pensions, but I compared 100,000 euros to the fact that pensioners deserve 100 euros in such a case. My statement on the context was exactly the same as what their President said at the time. However, since I am speaking, DeSUS was, of course, part of this ruling coalition in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you. This was not exactly a procedural proposal. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. First, I would like to commend Mr Janjo Klasinc, who said that the tycoons are being processed this year. That's right. I have to say, it made me very happy the day before, when I saw my father's two children being taken to the investigative prison, because one year 40 criminals were investigating his work in the Automoto connection and discovered that he had put 250 euros in his pocket. Bravo. The great success of the Slovenian police. It's a great success inside the minister. It is right that he is imprisoned, for he may be able to put another EUR 5 in his pocket at that time. Great, I'm very glad that this is how your democracy and your hunting tycoons develop. Now we've got a document on the table saying, "We're withdrawing the amendment to article 11 that we tabled today, article 16. 11." The Head of the Desus Group has also been signed, reminding me somehow that this is a well-played and well-thought-out inter-coalitional game. Because something comes in, something goes out, and then we're all healthy, beautiful, and people will applaud us. Of course, the pensioners will know that we worked for them, but in the end we did nothing. Although DeSUS will defend this amendment, it will then find that the amendment is not in there, it will be very sorry, but they will end up voting in favour of the law. Then they will say, we have done everything we can for you, dear pensioners, and we assure you that you will continue to have a thousand euros of pension per month. If we take it forward, today it has also been said that we have given the Greek guarantee. Yeah, we made a guarantee, too. But we also gave her almost EUR 400 million of credit, and given that the budget should ensure, unless this law was passed, about EUR 400 million, one wonders why we gave Greece around, there are 450 million, and here we have EUR 400 million, why we gave the Greeks, if we don't have it for our own people. Because we will continue to drag our people by the noses of a respected coalition. You pull them and you pull them, I don't know how long until they're gone. The Slovenian nation likes to be dragged by its nose and dragged by its nose in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, then during the occupation, then after the second war, first in the first Yugoslavia before the war, then occupation and second Yugoslavia. Now again, with the difference that we had excuses at the time to be pulled by the nose and beaten in the head by strangers. What are we gonna say today? It is true that most of these people today who are hitting on their own citizens can be said to be foreigners. Perhaps some foreigners will too, for when the power changes, they will quickly flee to places where they have already sent a lot of money. But to return to this adultery of Greece. The state will take credit to give the poof to Greece. I'm sure we won't see that money. But not that, we went, even worse, we went into a guarantee of EUR 2 billion 73 million, and every smart, simple farmer knows that the guarantee is the worst form of a financial commitment that usually gets married. These cases are as many as you want. But our countries don't care. Because it is likely that these guarantees will have to be paid when Greece does not pay them and in short Ireland, and Portugal will go away if I do not list them. We will give it, but we will rent credits that we will pay at a high interest rate and we will lose there. Unless we go into some kind of financial transaction, like now this National Investigation Office, where there's already one trick to be cheated on. Unfortunately, only Slovenian citizens are being cheated here. Europe will not be defrauded.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Allow me to present the framework first and then the answers to some of the dilemmas that have opened up in the debate on the subject of the amendment under this Article. First time. What's really going on? What's going on? We are living in a period after the end of the financial crisis caused by one period of five, six-year rapid conjunctures with cheap money and inefficient placement of at least part of the world's investment funds and, more in some more developed, most developed countries, at least in relatively less developed economies. We've been here for a while. It was expected that there would be a balance in the world that appeared particularly in surpluses. On the one hand, China, the oil exporter and other raw materials, and the deficits on the other, particularly in the United States of America, with a large external trade and public financial deficit, were not expected to offset this in order to make it through some turbulence, but in the modern world a deeper crisis was not expected. This happened after 15 September 2008, when the systemic risk was realized and the large system-wide Lehman Brothers World Bank was in trouble that the state did not solve. And when it didn't solve them, there was a demonstration effect, "spill-over effect", all over the world, a fear of the safety of placement. Credit markets are frozen. This was at the very moment when the new government, as you recall, followed by a crisis of deep demand, for us a fall in exports, then a fall in economic activity, employment, and then finally a synchronized action by countries. This took place in a special stimulus package. We had a duty to spend 1.2% of gross domestic product, to distribute this share of poor 400 million, on labour market shares, with which we retained a lot of jobs and, in particular, export companies in good condition, in addition to the significant decline in public financial flows. Today, we can say that these two measures, the financing of reduced working hours and the financing of people waiting for work, have been very successful in ensuring that companies that are now successfully entering export markets and increasing their market shares are in a position not only to engage in their activities. At the same time, we set out a second, smaller part to finance the developmental transformation. We actually had a huge deficit here, ten years of inactive development policy. Here we did not imitate, imitate the best practices of small open economies, Finland, in part Austria, we started at the end of the previous mandate and intensively at the beginning of this mandate. The first results are also shown in improved technologies, further improved competitiveness, not in the price area, but in the quality field, which is then able to achieve greater market shares and create greater added value. The fall in public financial inflows due to the decline in demand, the increase in social spending transfers as an incentive for economic growth itself, which has led to this growth, has led to a large deficit in public finances. We have a historically large deficit in public finances, not just us, but most of the others, including those who have smaller ones that they have almost had in the past. And now comes the period of recovery of these public finances, the re-establishment of balance, and this is what saves. Create these savings – multiple options are possible. One could be marked by an increase in taxes, but this would put competitiveness at risk. The second would be a laissez-fair system to ensure that the fiscal rule that we are actually using to regulate the public financial balance is enforced by launching a whole type of institution. There would be no doubt, in particular, some of the places where institutions are located that would concentrate in larger centres in the process of synergies. You probably understand what I'm talking about, and I'm not going to tell you directly because I have bad experiences if I tell you directly what kind of dangers are happening. Thus, we keep these savings, which are actually designed to provide stable resources and even increase slightly, but do not fully increase because this cannot be financed under the fiscal rule. We preserve the whole essence of the social state and to this end these measures are also designed or designed. So much for a little introduction. Now, let's talk about open dilemmas. Firstly, the Agency for the Management of State Capital Shares is a public body. In fact, it will be financed from public resources. We are transferring or moving to this agency from the Ministry of Finance, from the Department for the Management of Capital Shares of the State or with public property seven highly qualified staff, of which two are extremely strong, two almost the most powerful. We didn't do anything, like you said, to try and take away the personnel. The best in second place, we're actually sending this agency quality people. We expect them to be there on December 1st with their electronic equipment. They are already participating, and the activities of this agency are taking place at the premises of the Ministry. I think that we have chosen good leadership, that the frame is of quality, and that it will be part of its tasks. Another time. It's a question of the country's various actions on the capital market. These are actions, as was correctly established, where a country takes a certain credit, it moves forward with a higher return and with a positive effect on taxpayers and on the balance sheet. These are the loans in Greece. We have about 2% of net yield there. This will be the effect of the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana, Maribor bank, to the extent that the owners choose for it. I guess we will. It will flow at the book value when it is sold, it will be a double or a 2.4-fold. The issue of tolling was open. Travel is not financed nor will the infrastructure for potential electronic tolling be financed from public finances. This may require a State guarantee, perhaps not, depending on how the applicant decides. After that, the pension level itself, however, is greater by 430 million, or will be higher in 2011 than the level of transfers that we have earmarked for social affairs, not only for pensions, but also for the rest, will be higher by 430 million in 2011 than it was in 2008. Even the work that falls down on the pension fund alone, when it comes to profit or income, it would be impossible to cover. Finally, the question of some pathologically high prizes that were paid in 2008 is where some surprising formulas came into existence and then the realization of these formulas at the most unfavourable time to create our mutual trust. We have solved this, or this High Council has saved by introducing a special tax, so 90% of these extreme expediency revenues paid last year, including taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. It would be good to say, in all this advocacy of this law, how these people with less than 500 euros should spend a month. That's all we have to say, and we're gonna solve all the problems. I don't want to overdo it, because some people have much less than 500 euros a month. That's all we have to say in the National Assembly is how people should survive with less than 500 euros a month, and I think we've saved everything. And that's the answer to why everyone can't participate. Because some people just can't participate in this. They can't. It's not working. I don't know what's going on in your parliamentary offices, but I'm telling you, they've been coming to my office lately, people with two problems. One that is exposed is pensions, the other problem is jobs. People come to me to help them find a job. And those who fear that simply with this pension they receive cannot survive, in the Murje Wave we have the Pomurje Members every first Monday of the month a contact show where listeners can call us Members and also give us a bit of stress, as they call it. But on the last show called the lady, Mr Göncz, you will confirm, she said about this: "I have three euros to pay, I want to buy chicken, wood, I can't, I can't pay the bills!" And as Mr. Jurša said, she concluded, "I'd rather die." I know we're embarrassed, but now we're all looking at the ground, but this is the reality of this country. And it's not right to save on these people. I agree with Mr Žnidaršič when he said it would be right to make a difference. Absolutely, since there are also such pensions that are not problematic, unfortunately there are many of them, which are problematic and we are working here really long and hard. Unlike when we are talking about the amendment proposed several times in the Slovenian People's Party in order to cut spending on some budgetary consumers for a long time, this cannot be done. That's not gonna work. But there's no way we can cut it long and thin. Here, in this case, we can freeze everyone and no one else, as they're called. And there's something else on the subject of the guarantee, and it's been said a lot. I am afraid, given what has been said in recent days, that the situation in Greece has been much worse than was shown last time it was said that it was terrible. This guarantee will give rise to a serious obligation for this budget. Then what do we do? And I wouldn't just wave my hand at that guarantee. In the end, we will still have a severe headache for this guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, others present! I didn't mean to call, but I think it's okay if we're already listening to the demagogies, and on the other hand, we're listening to another fact. I must say that in the three amendments tabled in this article, I must in fact admit that the amendments of the SDS and the SLS are more consistent than the amendment of the coalition DeSUS for the reasons best described by my colleague Žnidaršič. They are consistent because, in short, they do not allow anyone to be deprived of anything, or from any of the above mentioned in this law, they do not expect him to participate in the burden of this crisis, as opposed to DeSUS, who believes that young families can participate and pensioners less. I am not quite sure that the SDS and SLS explanations also correctly state that it is the most vulnerable group in the case of pensioners. Part of them must be like that. Comrade Žerjav also described such a case. Of course, there are other vulnerable groups. None of those who were based on why pensioners were the most vulnerable group, you touched only pensions, you did not touch other social benefits and you did not touch one important thing, property. Indirectly touched by his colleague Urh, he said that housing and the Karawan tunnel used to be built from the pension register. I don't know what happened to this Caravan tunnel. I know I'm still paying and my kids are probably gonna pay the toll for this tunnel. With regard to the dwellings that the generation, once active, may have built from the resources of the ZPIZ, I know exactly that the same generation, according to the law of Jasbinska, has nicely divided among themselves into one act the greatest within the generational solidarity that this nation has ever seen, and thus the other generations that we have come after it have been deprived. But it's okay. We kind of forgot about it, though, of course, every month, when I have to pay my mortgage loan, it warms up and I remember that. Even those who claim to be able to resolve the burden of this crisis in a way of saving, I do not think that you have properly presented all the data here. If it is true that the outstanding revenue for the 840 million PPIZ debtors is, of course, necessary to know that this amount is not even sufficient for the payment of pensions for three months. In short, what are we talking about here? What kind of reserves could be made? I also find it difficult to understand the talk and advice about this saving by someone who has led the transport ministry or at least his client for decades has controlled, led and participated in this area. We know what the savings were or what the investments and guarantees of the country were there, which I and my children will probably still be paying. It is also worth mentioning these advices from the best former Minister for the Economy on how to encourage the economy in order to increase the resources of the budget. I don't know, I don't know, like the way the salary tax was abolished, which we know that more than half went to manager buyouts, to raise profits, and only a small share of investment. It obviously didn't work out that way. That's why I'm gonna take these advices with a big spare. To say that we have 120,000 unemployed is not true either. There's over 100,000 of them. Mr Pojbič, as Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs, of course, knows this. It is pointless to talk about what kind of retirement Mr Kramar received while we were all sitting here in this Chamber and also passed a law that has severely restricted this expulsion. Comrade Trofenik proposed this law. Talking about this government doing nothing to save money. Why, then, are opinions on the meaning and usefulness of the investment in TES 6 so broken? Because this is a huge investment, a huge investment that will burden the citizens of this country for a decade to come. It is reasonable to believe that this is a real investment and that the funds will be properly charged and will turn around, and it will not be necessary to regret that we have made such an investment in a decade from now. That's why we need to think this through. I must say that I have been far more than this amendment in the attempt to support an amendment that speaks of free kindergartens. Because I think, if we're going to go somewhere, of course, we have to invest in our future. But to insist on an amendment that will only raise pensioners by half and leave all other transfers where they are, but it is extremely insolvent. Years ago, I noticed DeSUS performing under a slogan for all generations. For all generations, please! If that were the case, amendments should be tabled in all articles of this law, and unfortunately this is not the case. With the austerity measures that are probably possible and giving Greece and our guarantee to it, I find it odd to hear this from people who will probably also have to admit that the benefits of the common European market and the open economy and the common currency are much greater than that guarantee and the guarantee we had to give. But those who do not believe in it should look at the example of narrow - minded thinking about the economy. For example, the necessity to say so, the Slovenian ownership of both the biggest Slovenian brewery and where this has led us - how these two breweries are now standing, what kind of squabbles and why and who has profited most of this and who also wanted to benefit from it politically and media. We should learn something from these stories before we start sharing the Levites. Also talk about higher pensions stimulating domestic consumption and making the economy easier to move forward. Very short-sighted. If it were that simple, we would increase all social transfers and this money would go away. But things in the economy don't work that easy. To also talk about higher pensions being necessary in order for pensioners to be able to help other generations who are still hanging on their shoulders - of course they are hanging. For every euro more, the euro is less for kindergartens. For every euro more, the euro is less for renting apartments for young families. And as long as pensions have to be higher than other social transfers and they have to be coordinated more than other social transfers, people will still live at home after 30 years. This is actually what political pensioners wanted, because they gave pensioners more money to take care of these children in order to keep them dependent. When a colleague of Jurš spoke about the case of an older gentleman who, in view of his pension statement, prefers to die, it should be said that there are more such cases in other age groups. In the case of young people who earn an average wage, that means they have a good salary. Because the average wage for a young person is more rare than anything else. It is important to say that when a young person deducts the cost of mortgage or renting an apartment and other living expenses, he looks at what is left of him and decides instead for the child, rather for the contraceptive because that is all he has left. And also, at that moment, he probably always thinks with bitterness that he's not dying, and his birth is behind him, because money for such luxury as children is not. So that I sincerely hope that such an amendment will not go through, because if it goes, we will, in this way you will eat the future of your children, grandchildren, grandchildren. If anyone feels good about it, it should be stuck in his throat as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you. Madam Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u122	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u123	Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Since I have been mentioned with my name and surname, I must tell my colleague who mentioned me that it would be good for me to be in Parliament last night when I asked the Member's question about unemployment in this country, where I also mentioned the reasons why I claim that there are more than 120 000 unemployed in Slovenia. But since he probably slept at home instead of being here in Parliament, he couldn't hear that answer. Second thing. It is not possible to understand that one of the Members can discuss in such a way that one euro is less for the pensions of the euro for children, less for families and so on. It's a distasteful debate. The fact is that if this country managed the state budget rationally, everyone could be satisfied. But it is true that this country should know what the priority is. For this country, for this country, this government and this coalition should certainly not be a priority for all that we have listed today. Spending money on tycunization, spending money on Ljubljana Bank, spending money on Greece, spending money on airline tickets, spending money on Dimičeva and so on. There are so many reasons why we may be concerned about those Members who disagree with this debate. If we think that way in this country and the National Assembly, it is a huge question of where this country will come from and how long citizens will be able to live normally in this country. After all these decisions of this government and after all these decisions on freezing and so on, I can most likely claim that many people in this country are already very at risk. This is what is a huge mistake and what is, I will say, unacceptable to the current government and this coalition and that the coalition Members are discussing in a way that Mr Rožej has now debated that one euro for pensioners is less for the family and less for the children. In doing so, he exceeded every limit of good taste. That is why I believe that there are very few Members in this House who would think that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Of course, it reflects the debate of Members and Members in this amendment and in this law the atmosphere that we are witnessing right among our people, precisely because of this kind of debate, us who have a responsibility in the decision-making process to find balanced solutions in the situations in which we are in this country. Each has its own view, its own needs, its own efforts and the most responsible is the Government and the most responsible coalition is to find a balance between these different interests. At the time of this amendment, a number of words were spoken on which I would like to make a few clarifications that place these words in a different light. I think it will be an indisputable opportunity tomorrow for all of you competent ministers to show that not only did we have to save extremely much on material costs but on priority projects, but maybe the programme budget does not show such a picture, so it is up to us and at least I will try very hard tomorrow to see how much in fact we had to reduce the necessary resources on individual budget lines to target them in the part that we can, we say, will mean added value at work. So, not about this, of course, I want to argue with that part that he absolutely wanted to deny today and to present the situation in one way or another. Dear Members and Members! Half of this law touches the salaries and benefits of public servants. The words that respected colleagues, representatives of DeSUS, have said that pensioners will not be the victims of the public sector are heard six months ago when we announced a programme to save the necessary public sector wage policy so that public servants will not be the victim of the real sector. The weighting of one group against another, where, of course, all these groups are consumers of budgetary resources, is poor. It's not good. Public servants, in view of the measures in this intervention law, do not, of course, share the fate of pensioners, are in a worse position than the stable income of pensioners. Because wage policy for 2011 is in the Act of Intervention for Officials, you all know exactly, the continuation of the salary reduction of officials by 4% from 2009, 2010 and 2011. Even in 2011, this is the only category in which personal benefits, including judicial officials, continue to be reduced. It's about public servants. In 2011 they will not receive 2% of funding for regular work performance. The volume to be made available to budgetary users for the payment of the increased volume of work will be reduced. The wage imbalances will not be eliminated. You will recall, distinguished representatives of DeSUS, for 50 million days in this country, we have suffered a public sector strike because the government has reported that it cannot provide funds to raise wages to this extent and that it is not fair and fair in view of the situation in this country and a lot of other arguments. We had a social dialogue for five months. Therefore, not only will the failure to raise wages, the regress will be lower for the third year than in the Labour Relations Act as a minimum regression, but public servants have agreed to do so in the five-month negotiations. Not only this part, which represents a poorer position of civil servants under the laws of certain rights, in the collective agreement of agreed rights, will we have to reduce our budgets by an additional 5% at the cost of work today. When we at our ministry have analyzed how we can achieve this, I will present to you tomorrow to see how cruel saving is if you want to preserve the development priorities of the ministry, but you have to lower these stationary costs. And we have such budgets today in the public sector. And this is not the first year, honourable Members and Members. Remember last year and look, today Umar announced wage growth in the public sector in 2010. For 350 million euros last year, we stopped the rise in labour costs due to wage reform and others in the law of certain rights by agreement with the public sector unions. For 350 million, public servants felt deprived of legal rights and agreed rights in the past year. The wage growth is 0.9% in the public sector, according to the latest forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the light of austerity measures. It was announced, if we did not act, strong over 7.8% of wages. Of course, public servants feel that they are unjustifiablely victims of the situation in the real sector because they have not caused such situations. And that's true. Overblown capital markets and capital, which is all-inclusive, actually keeps the world in check, keeps the economy in check, keeps the economic downsizing in check. And we are still in Slovenia because of other things that this government has not blamed, and this today's political accounting for visa is significantly less appropriate for citizens. Once again, therefore, half of this law, honourable Members and Members, for those who will reject it, is a result of five months of ongoing negotiations but a successful agreement with public servants. A week ago, we announced that out of 163 thousand 708 public servants subject to the public sector collective agreement, the measures before you today were in law, and part of it was, of course, because it was related to the collective agreement, published as an annex number 4h of the collective agreement, according to the accession declarations that we have listed, agreed 75 000 675 members of representative trade unions, both in the field of justice, university workers, health care workers, health care workers, police union of Slovenia, education and research activities and workers in education, science and culture of Slovenia. These measures in the intervention law show an exceptional understanding by public officials that it is not possible to increase, increase and not align wages in this part with the growth of living costs, at least not in 2011. However, in these difficult negotiations, honourable Members and Members, we have been assured by the Government all the time. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u127	Madam Secretary, just a moment. I would ask Members and Members, as well as guests who are not Members and Members, if you would like to discuss, please step into the corridor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u128	In the part of the negotiations, the Government made a commitment, with all seriousness, to the principle of equal treatment vis-à-vis other large recipients of transfers from public cash registers, provided that any way in which individual expenditure is coordinated would be dealt with differently in order to ensure such treatment for public servants. They agreed in the 2011 coordination process that there was no coordination. So the government's commitment is clear here. I think it's the right thing to do. For, as has already been said today, more than 4 thousand public servants receive a minimum wage. Understanding these for such a wage policy as was now in the intervention law and as was the annex number 4, i.e. in amending the collective agreement, is a strong understanding of the important part of the Slovenian people employed in the public sector for the situations in which we are. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that, as you have said many times, you also respect social dialogue by confirming the text of the intervention law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Godec, you can apply in the next moment, but you weren't quoted. Yeah, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u130	Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you if you could warn Madam Minister to come a little early next time and have a general discussion when we are all together, we are now in the process of amendments. For all the comparisons which she gave about the Group of Members were previously well-spoken and well-spoken in the numbers of my fellow Members. But now we're with amendments that have just a little bit of a different content. I would now tell Mr Jelinčič so much that on page 19 he was technically wrongly realized and Article 21 was released, including Article 39, which resulted in the withdrawal of this from my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u131	Anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the three amendments to this Article? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Not to be forgotten, given that Minister Križanič is not here, the Secretary of State may reply to me further, for in his debate Mr Križanič said that the law was passed, which should also be taxed on high severance. Now I wonder, at least I did not see whether Mr Kramar, who received a million Euros of retirement, paid the tax of that million or how much he had left. Because this Mr Kramar is one of the most responsible people today to face the need for recapitalisation, because he was the one who approved the loans to the tycoons, to all those occupied investments, to all those who actually tried to seize what this society had been creating for decades and decades. If anything were fair, it would be that in these two years, if nothing else, this government would have drawn up such an intervention law, which I believe would have been supported by everyone here, so that any such property created in a non-transparent way without any evidentiary trace or background could be taken. I am sure that today we would not face problems, or provide our pensioners with such a pension to enable them to have at least that minimum survival, and of course all those who are on the verge of social bottom today. Unfortunately, this has always been the case in the past, and it is obvious that this is the case today, and it will also be in the future, that it is easier to take the one who can at least defend himself. "Hit the poor guy," they used to say. Such a group are pensioners, those who are already left to themselves, to really barely survive from month to month, do not know whether they will survive, or can really repeat that it is better to die. But that's not fair to them. They worked decades and decades, paid a fair wage in cash, and today they do not have such a pension as to enable them to survive. But unfortunately, it's not just the pensioners. I was appalled today when I saw in the newspaper that the employees of Vegrad, who were supposed to receive some payment from the guarantee fund to their accounts, had this account emptied them at the moment when the bank had collected all those liabilities they had to do to such or other loans that Vegrad had to pay to them at the time of their work, of course, to them, but it did not forward. And it is indeed that catastrophe that this society, this government, this coalition has no will, power, of course, and desire to take such measures, such legislation as will call those responsible to account. Today, however, Mrs Hilda is probably in those palaces, with yachts, not knowing how much property, of course from some distance she is observing the disaster of all these people. And the solution to all this with this intervention law today, if this were really some final solution, one might even understand, but I'm afraid it won't be enough. Today we are taking something else from the pensioners and those who are the lowest. What are we gonna take next year? Economic forecasts, as they are next year, are even worse. Therefore, a respected government, a respected coalition, let us start to think or, above all, you have this responsibility, how to change the trend in the revenue part of the budget or in all three accounts. That's where we have to find a solution. I would be overjoyed, and probably a lot of people would today have an intervention law that would consider how much we will hire people again, and not only 110 000 unemployed in Slovenia, as statistics show, but it is already a disaster. In this quota, let us give 110 000 account also of those employees who are still employed on paper who have not received a salary since May, and this figure will probably be the same as the government has announced that at the end of 2010 140 000 unemployed people will be. And today, or more than once, it is possible to hear the success of this coalition, this government, that we don't have 140,000 unemployed, that we only have 100,000. Nice comfort is to set a truly disastrous goal, and then, when you reach it, it may be a little better, but it's still catastrophic, and in fact, you're trying to prove yourself to be some sort of savior of this nation. Therefore, once again, let yourself think, coalition, and above all government, adopt such intervention laws that will provide new jobs. This is that we will be able to fill the cash registers in this way, because then there will be no more power to take anything away from anyone if such a trend continues. Or next year it will be an intervention law that the pensioners will be banned from going to the store, that they will not be able to spend more of those few euros if they have to. That's why I think that the amendment we've proposed is honest, really fair to the pensioners. Let's just let them have at least the minimum amount they're still getting, and that's what survival problems are, so they don't get what they're getting. Of course, even those who receive transfers in a fair way, perhaps a little more attention for those who receive transfers in an unfair way. How many are there? A lot. True, they are difficult to prove, but with good faith many things could be done. I have already mentioned today how much grey economy we have in Slovenia. Show some progress there to collect the money where it is. Look where he is. I am also convinced that at least 50 of the hundreds of the richest, published in Manager, could be overwinded by some system-wide legislation, but not only a million euros, maybe a few 100 million euros could be obtained from where it was taken. And once we have achieved this, I think that this society may indeed have some optimism to move forward so that we can become a democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you. Madam Secretary has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I have been asked a specific question and would like to answer it. Unfortunately, my answer can only be of principle. The data on the individual tax is tax confidentiality, so I do not have this information and I cannot answer you specifically whether or not Mr Kramar has paid the tax. However, I can ensure that the Act on the payment of this special tax on exceptional remuneration requires the fulfilment of two conditions for the tax to be charged. On the one hand, the payer of income, i.e. the company, must benefit from, or be involved in, the measures taken by the State to mitigate the economic crisis. On the other hand, retirement must be higher than some of the normal standards laid down by the legal provision. And in the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka we can find that the first condition has been met and in fact the second condition in relation to published or published data in public opinion. I would like to point out, however, that in the same breath as you were talking, Mr Grill, about discharges, you also mentioned an institution for the taking of unjustifiably acquired property. These are two completely different institutes, two entirely different cases, which must also be dealt with separately, and also this second collection of unjustifiably acquired assets has been addressed by the Government and is expected to present concrete proposals for action to the National Assembly in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Initially, in Slovenia we are fortunately living in a system where solidarity in the pension system applies, where those who are currently working fill the pension box for those who are currently retired. In many other places the system of funds is in place, and elsewhere people have also lost half of the money that they have saved over the years to be able to pay their pensions because pension funds, like other mutual funds, have lost value. The money that was put there in paper broke out, and all of a sudden they only had half the pension they had saved for decades. So while others face such difficulties that from the bag they have accumulated during the whole working period, there are only half of them left, we talk about how much we will increase our pensions in Slovenia. Because in this amendment, we are talking about how much we are going to raise our pensions – or how much the government has proposed during the crisis – that is, whether we will coordinate by only 25% or 50%, as we have heard from the opposition, or perhaps more. We're not even talking about freezing anymore. We're just talking about how much we're gonna raise our pensions. You don't have to nod your opposition colleagues, the fact is we're talking about this. And unless we're talking about raising pensions by coordination, I'm asking for this replication. Presidents, I challenge my colleagues and tell them that we are not talking about pension increases. That's exactly what we're talking about! Of course, then we can interpret it as we want, but the fact is we're talking about a higher pension, and the question is how much. And we are still talking about this in the year we are slowly emerging from the crisis. And to be able to talk about this in this way, it is also the credit of this government, which is currently leading Slovenia, of these governments, which have managed to strongly combat social differences or have managed to reduce them, and of these governments, which were able to reduce the level of poverty in our country during the crisis. I see that the opposition colleagues disagree with this, but these are facts. I understand they may be disturbing, I don't know why. I think we can all look forward to the fact that this government has succeeded in reducing poverty in this country, as the previous government has done a lot of good. And when something good worked out, we could all look forward to it. I think it would be good and that this country would also need some positive support from the opposition so that we can also look forward to such success. However, I would like to stress the interesting fact that while we are wasting hours and hours of time, it is right that, after all, because we are the National Assembly and we are talking about this, we are talking about the issue of pensions, where, of course, there are many people who are probably watching us now, who are retired and who are participating in the elections, so they are voting, but we have not spent a second talking about another important article and the amendment proposed by the opposition, and this is the issue of freezing over the kindergarten law. Since we are not currently discussing this amendment, I know that the chairman will warn me about it, so I will soon conclude with this link. But it's interesting. Why? Because the four- or five-year-olds found in Article 3 of this Law do not have an electoral right and are therefore very uninteresting for the people sitting in the National Assembly, while the pensioners and pensioners are significantly more interesting. We have heard that at least that minimum of survival must be ensured without laying a certain foundation and to argue what this minimum of survival is. Most likely, if we talked, as we did last year, about harmonisation to 50%, we would hear that at least 75% of survival should be ensured. If we talked about 75%, we would hear from the opposition, as is understandable in some dynamic dialectic, that 100% of coordination should be ensured. And so on. By proposing that we leave such a demagogic debate and rather answer the question of how, point one, we will ensure the stability of our budget, point two, ensure a successful exit from the crisis, and point three, ensure social cohesion and further poverty reduction in our country. When we answer these three points, I think we will do the most we can in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Look, no taxes have been collected for 320 million, 130 thousand workers have not been paid contributions to the pension fund. With deposits deposited in the Ljubljana Bank, this is a covert rehabilitation. Addressing the problem of Greece and the stability of the euro, various guarantees, inconsistent implementation of financial discipline. This year, economic crime has damaged the country for more than half a billion euros. Last year, corruption cost Slovenia more than a billion euros. All this and all this should never have happened. The freezing of pensions is not what saves the country from the crisis, but it is the part that will make the poor really poor. Breaking spears on the poor is a reflection of irresponsible social policy. The government is doing things on the wrong end. We have 320 million unpaid contributions to be collected by the rule of law. And what helps raise the retirement age if companies don't pay contributions if there's no control and no law comes to life. As long as we are accompanied by stories that no regression has been paid in a company for 15 years and that they are so scared that they do not even hope to talk about it, and that no more months are paid. How can workers in a company have more than 200 overtime on July 1st, work 16 hours a day, and not pay overtime? It is increasingly blurring and concealing decisions that interfere with billions of numbers, with stories that in some way take hold of the nation. It is now an up-to-date TES 6, for which so fiercely two coalition parties are fighting, for which the design value was EUR 602 million and with the possibility of investing private capital in energy, but this was not acceptable, since it should have announced the price in the planned calculation. It is only a narrow interest of people who represent an economic, social, developmental and environmentalally flawed project, which is not necessary for energy and is unacceptable for the country. As far as pensioners are concerned, I find that we all want good and good pensions for them. The only thing I don't know is why they don't get better pensions and decent lives when we're all united. Apparently someone is lying and holding a fig in his pocket, which certainly does not apply to the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 4 and the amendments to this article? No, no, no. Then we move on to Article 11. We have three amendments here. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hands. I am opening an application for Article 11 and the three amendments to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. Dear Members and Members! In the proposal for an intervention measure law due to the economic crisis, the proposal for the introduction of Article 11 of the proposal, which provides, irrespective of Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law on Community Financing, for the co-financing of the investments of municipalities referred to in Article 21, paragraph 1, of that Act shall be made available in 2011 and 2012 at a rate of 4 % of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. However, the Law on the financing of municipalities in the second paragraph of Article 21 provides that part of the funds for the co-financing of investments in local public infrastructure and investments is of particular importance for meeting the common needs and interests of the municipality population included in the plans for the development programmes of municipal budgets, to municipalities for each financial year at the rate of 6 % of the total appropriate consumption of municipalities. Furthermore, the Law on the financing of municipalities in its transitional and final provisions in Article 39 provides for a transitional period after which, in 2011, funding for co-financing of investments is provided to municipalities at 5% of total eligible expenditure and, as provided for in Article 21, at 6%. At a meeting to coordinate the average height of 16. 9. 2010 at the Ministry of Finance, representatives of local communities were proposed to reduce the average, basic revenue of municipalities for the enforcement of certain tasks by reducing by a total of EUR 10 per capita compared to the originally foreseen amount. The meeting also proposed a solution provided for in Article 11 of the Proposal for an Law on Intervention Measures. The municipalities strongly and strongly opposed the proposal. As a result of the current economic situation, local communities will also suffer significant financial losses, and the implementation of legal tasks will be jeopardised if the forecast of a fall in the average for 2011. It is also extremely unacceptable that the State of representatives of local communities does not take the necessary seriousness and responsibility. This year alone, the State has committed a great deal of obligations to municipalities under the laws of various departments without providing the necessary financial resources. At the same time, it now proposes a significant reduction in investment funds, leading to the inevitable collapse of the local government system. I respectfully remind honourable Members, Members and others responsible in the country that the municipalities are in over-indebted and are no longer able to finance the most basic activities. In order to avoid further deterioration of the already poor financial situation in Slovenian municipalities, I strongly protest an additional reduction in investment funds, which, in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, belong to municipalities. Such a solution is unacceptable for the municipalities as carriers of local development, so I call on you to delete the proposed Article 11 of the Law on Intervention Measures, as proposed in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I think that this amendment, or amendments, was so much for article 11 today that I no longer know which one is valid or which one is not. Actually, it's a vital issue. We have 210 municipalities, and I believe that each municipality is planning its own development, not just from today to tomorrow, but that many municipalities have a development plan that dates back to 2010 and also in 2011 and has already begun to invest. When planning or planning the 2011-2012 budget, municipalities were already counting on a certain percentage of the total eligible expenditure in the Community Financing Act. This was clear, 5% in 2011 and 6% in 2012. This brings a certain amount of money, which is almost, I believe, in every other municipality already in operation in development programmes. And if it happens now that this law is passed and it would impose 4% of the total appropriate spending up to, say, 2013, I really don't imagine the functioning of the municipalities. But you know, the congregation isn't some company that's independent of the state, it's the functioning of the state. The municipalities together are like every finger on its own that is not strong enough, and ten fingers are two strong fists. And the congregations do a great deal, thank God, with the help of the state, but also instead of the state. At times, they take on a number of obligations with less money than they would have been, and then they find themselves. I wonder, on behalf of my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, what would be the point of contrary to the views of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, for example, to adopt this law, to adopt 4% of the total appropriate spending, when we all well know that all the mayors, both coalition and opposition, will come through the back or side doors, as we have always done, to the ministers and will require some money that this country will have to take back here, a little bit there, in short, it will be a vicious circle. At this point, we may say, if this law is to be passed, we have set off 450 million euros. But with this we will do great damage in the local community, who will come looking for this money back and in three quarters of a year we will have increased public spending again, because there are certain things that must be done in the congregations, God will not give any more floods, and when there is not enough money in line for floods and reserve funds and so on. I therefore note in this amendment that I am surprised or do not know why some agreement has not actually been reached with the Community of Municipalities and the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia for the truly vital work of municipalities. There are 210 of them, I emphasize. And those development plans that are already under way can fall. Things can get worse and political problems arise, and ministries will have to look for additional resources under different headings, or perhaps some other items will be eliminated again in this account in order for one matter to be around – this is a chain that causes some damage in one or another case. Therefore, I do not think it is good that this agreement has not been reached and I do not think it is good that this measure is included in this proposal for an intervention law. Especially since the Law on the Financing of the Communities specifies exactly what the agreement was. I think it would be good, perhaps by the Government we will also hear how it can, or how it will help municipalities that will not be able to implement the already adopted development agenda plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I would, of course, like to say personally in the introductions that I would like to support the amendment to Article 11, both the Slovenian People's Party and, of course, the SDS. It is true, however, that I will support the amendment to Article 11 of the SD Group, which, of course, is significantly better than it was written in the bill itself, because in this way, if we adopted, as it was written in the law, we would restrict or take away the sovereignty of the municipalities and prescribe to the municipalities which projects they should finance or carry out under this law. Of course, then, it would be almost pointless for us to have our budgets and our municipal councils if the National Assembly was directing us to do what we should do. As of course the economic crisis in Slovenia is here, where it is, the economic crisis could also be mitigated in a way that would give municipalities more money to spread this money across Slovenia. This would in some way strengthen new investments and, of course, new jobs. However, since this is not possible and we must also be solidarity in the local community, we will have to accept this in some way. However, not only are we not increasing from 4% to 6% and 5% of the appropriate spending, we have actually counted on these funds in the municipalities more or less, since we are in the middle of the 2011 and 2012 budget preparation, so we will, of course, have to take this into account, this new fact. But I also agree with those who, of course, say that the headship calculated against the costs we have in the congregation is too small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. Madam Secretary has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me some clarifications regarding Article 11 and the amendment to Article 11. Article 11 provides that investment transfer in the local community is maintained at a level of 4% of the eligible expenditure in 2011 and 2012, i.e. 42 million euros. Therefore, we still provide these investment transfers to municipalities to the same extent as before. If we look at some data on future municipalities and also the projection of expenditure, especially investment expenditure in municipalities, then we need to find that the increase in tax revenues in municipalities in 2010 or the first nine months of 2009 during the first nine months of 2010 is quite favourable, 110%. So 10% more received tax revenues in this year than in last year's period. By comparison, the state budget gained 2% less. Projections prepared on the basis of current developments and global macroeconomic indicators show that in 2011 the investment expenditure of the municipalities will total EUR 1 billion. I'm talking in a few rounded numbers. And this €1 billion includes European funds, and within this €42 million is also included, which we provide as investment transfers from the state budget to the municipal budgets. Taking this figure into account, I cannot agree with the debaters who claim that in essence this austerity measure for municipal budgets is a major damage or a major problem. Yes, it means tightening the belt, it means an unpopular measure, but if we look at saving in other areas – and let me remind you that saving means not only measures included in the intervention law, but also all those measures that are visible through the 2011 and 2012 draft budget, which will be discussed below. This law only includes those exceptional intervention measures which we cannot provide through systemic measures for 2011 and 2012. In light of the above, allow me to define myself until the amendment proposal. As the Government, we can support the amendment tabled in Article 11 by the SD Group of Members, meaning, in fact, an article which the Government has also tabled in the initial proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. As I see interest, I am opening the application for a debate on Article 11 and the amendments to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Barovich, please, you have the Word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u148	I listened attentively to Madam Secretary, not just today, for the last time. She also repeated some of this today. We have also all heard that the municipalities were not affected by the economic crisis, which is true, much less than all other entities. You mentioned European funds. I'll tell you just one example of how it works in this area. When you go to a project that is very formal, in which Europe, the country and the municipality are performing, you sign a contract that clearly states that VAT, tax, is not, at present, difficult to think, not a reasonable cost or a reasonable cost. You sign a contract like this, the project is worth, I'll say, 5, 6 million euros, two years from now, someone makes it up and you get an account for 600, 700 thousand euros, "pay where you are, we've changed our minds", the tax has not excused – but it's not here before. Now, out of the luft, he's creating 700,000 euros. In addition, 5 % of the total appropriate consumption of 4 is agreed here and another percentage is lower. And then a congregation that doesn't know how strong it is to have, I'll say, 17,000 people, 14 million euros in budget, and 18 million euros in debt. How's she gonna settle them? Not by your own fault. Not on her own fault, because the contract she signed was clear. Someone changed that, and there's no pardon. You can stand on your head. Only if we press charges will the lawsuit last 10 years. Now explain to me where, in addition to all these problems that are not righteous, they are, where else should we get this money, which in this case is yes, but I am for that, we all have to save, including the congregations. [[...]] I'm not worried anymore, I'm not the mayor anymore, but I'm worried because I like the municipality. Yes, we will save, in agreement, by making mayors who will be performing now, forming budgets to know that they should count on 4%, to count or to make a reserve somewhere for their work started. And I know that there's going to be a lot of people in big trouble, even in the middle and little larger municipalities, including the city municipalities, including colleagues from coalition parties are mayors, and they're going to have problems if that's the case. That's why we didn't just think of opposition, too quickly, which is why we woke up overnight, we came up with 4%. Without an agreement, I think it would be better if we stayed in agreement so that in 2011 it is 5%, and that for 2012 and 2013 it remains at 5% instead of 6% as described in the contract, we would agree. Some kind of deal. Some agreement, as if there was an agreement in other areas, would not be discussed today for five or six hours on the law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis, because we all know that it was written quickly, that it was written because it was found that so much and so much money was missing, and it was made like this. But I do know that things could have been handled differently. I'm sure, but okay, now we're here, which is here. So, yes, the congregations, they will, but in every congregation, there are so many and so many thousands of people who have the right to a decent life, to a water supply, sewerage, and relatively regulated roads, at least that. And if they plotted this for 2015, we leave them 5%, that means a lot to everyone, and by the 2012 agreement, donkeys for 2014, we'll leave it to 5%, and it'll also save itself. That's our judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u150	A nice greeting to all of you! In this amendment we are talking about the financing of municipalities and the situation of Slovenian municipalities, and I am deeply convinced that we are making the wrong decision to reduce these investment funds. For all measures to put an end to the economic crisis are essentially going in the direction of some defensive action, but we are not thinking about where work would also be created, which would be invested and where to start the economy. In Germany last year, this, I think, has already been said in this high house, in the middle of the year received clear instructions and also funds to double investment funds, because Angela Merkel's assessment was that investment levels should be raised at local levels. I know the case of a colleague from Obriheim who with these funds regulated the energy efficiency of the municipal building, the facility where the library is located. Their condition was that last year this cash flow had to run out. And we know what is happening today in Germany, that in fact this transition has already left this crisis. Today, at the municipal level, we find that, as a result of the economic crisis, a whole range of expenditure increases, these so-called running expenditure, such as the difference in the price of kindergartens, which depends on the income of parents, compulsory health insurance for people with no income, subsidisation of pensions for socially disadvantaged, assistance at home as the next measure, capital revenues have fallen where they try to sell in business zones and so on. Therefore, as a result of such decisions, in order to reduce the average, and on the other hand, it does not continue to increase these investment expenditure as planned, and it puts in an unenviable position. I am sure that this is not the right signal for measures to reduce the public financial deficit, but that we should also start an economy in this society. Last week, we were three Members of the European Parliament, where it was explicitly said that social cohesion in society should be taken into account when coming out of the crisis. This is what we talked about in pension-related measures, in kindergarten payments, in social transfers, and we are also going in this direction, and we are going through these guidelines and guidelines. On the other hand, we do not take this necessary step to allow municipalities to invest and to put this crisis to an end in local areas, and to make a whole range of investments throughout Slovenia. In the data on investment expenditure in municipalities, it should be said that it is also largely a matter of money derived from transfer revenue from European funds, and that most Slovenian municipalities have already spent almost all of those limits around the debt, so that they can make the necessary investments and also take care of the economic start-up throughout Slovenia. This measure is going in the wrong direction and I think it would be very right for Members and Members to support this amendment and to allow that, despite the fact that for these few million, this public debt, as it is often said, is increasing, on the other hand, to create so many jobs that are falling apart and, as a result, a whole series of revenue is being collected in the budget. I think it would be wise for this amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u152	In this amendment we are talking about relatively small numbers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that these funds remain as stipulated by the law at 5% in 2011 and 6% in 2012. This intervention law, however, preserves them or limits them to a level of 4% as it does this year. This is about investment funds, so for the investment part, about EUR 10 million per year would mean this number. Here we can see this gap between individual consumers and between restrictiveness in one area and non-restrictivity in the other. While there is something to be saved here, a relatively small amount, the National Assembly, the ruling coalition, recently without a problem, has accepted EUR 150 million to Dars for tolling, for a project, is totally unnecessary during this period. 150 million euros. Here, however, is a few 10 million euro of funds allocated to all 210 Slovenian municipalities for investments. Both associations opposed this, both the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Many congregations individually protested this intention. I mentioned earlier that something on the government side should be done on the revenue side. There's not enough activity here and there's not enough effort. Only one information that could be used in this case is from the European Union funds. 220 million in the first half of the over-billion planned this year. Implementation is likely to be around 50% at the end of the year. Half a billion planned and unspent funds due to the bureaucratic poles that this country throws at those who want to run for these funds. And one of the mechanisms where it could be used is those investments envisaged in Section 11 of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss article 11 and the amendments to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendments. The vote will take place after a review of the amendments you received on the bench. First, I'd like you to look at the voting devices if the orange light is on fire. We turn to Article 2 or to the vote on the amendment, supported by two different groups of Members, which reads as "the article is deleted". We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are going to move on to Article 3, namely, we will first vote on the amendment, or there are only two amendments, which are equal, and once again read, 'Article is deleted'. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 76 Members present and 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Section 4. We will first vote on an amendment supported by two members of the group. It says, "Member is deleted." If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That is why we are moving to the vote on amendment number 3 proposed by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to Article 11. First of all, we have an amendment supported by two members of the group. It says, "Member is deleted." If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 3 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[Twenty-four members voted in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That's why we're going to vote on the amendment under number three. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[Forty members voted in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that, in the second reading, the assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 11 of the amended Law, so I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article? No, no, no. Then I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a full law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone else? Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u154	We will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In view of the content of this law and given that it has greater restrictions than in the intervention law for this year 2010, it is quite clear that the Pahor's Government is planning a significantly more difficult and significantly more critical situation in 2011 and 2012 than in this year. On the other hand, the Pahorje government has not begun to take any measures to boost economic growth and thereby increase employment and thus increase revenue for all state treasury. Thus, this law on the one hand tightens the belt for those who have the least, and on the other hand does not in any way show a signal to increase revenue in state cash registers. Nor does the government save where savings are urgently needed and welcome. Over the past two years, this government has spent significantly more than the previous government spent in the period of the transition, with government spending almost €10 billion per year and revenue falling below €8 billion. In 2011 and 2012, when this intervention law is in force, the law that saves for those with the lowest pensions, those with 200, 300, 400 euros in pension, saves them in the same way as those with a thousand 500 or more pensions. Thus, during this period, most countries in the European Union are already forecasting the heating and acceleration of economic growth, and thus, of course, by increasing the number of employees, more flows into the state budget and into the state treasury. Of course, such measures would also be expected in Slovenia. In Slovenia, instead of this intervention law, we should discuss in particular how and how we will strengthen economic growth, how we will, on the other hand, limit unnecessary expenditure through rationalisation and reform of the public sector, particularly the state administration, and not savings in those who have squeezed the last hole in the belt. It would be high time for this government to take care and prepare a comprehensive, consistent and operationally divided programme that would have clear objectives, facilities and hands that would on the one hand cheapen the functioning of the country and, on the other hand, provide a perspective for creating new jobs and thus, of course, increase in flows to all state treasuryes. Under such a scenario as this law foresees, we will probably witness further restrictions and savings in those who cannot save any more. We do not support such an approach in the parliamentary group and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Urh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. The DeSUS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4. As this amendment has not been voted on, the DeSUS Group cannot fully support the law. Indeed, this amendment predicted that pensions in 2011 were in line with half the salary growth. Unfortunately, the coalition members of this amendment did not support it, and the DeSUS Group will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Žerjav also raised his hand on behalf of the Group of Members. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will the Slovenian People's Party support this law. As we have said many times, we see no reason for this burden of the financial and economic crisis to be borne to such an extent by those who are socially most at risk. We have some cases here, it's about freezing social transfers, it's about young families, it's about kindergartens, it's about freezing pensions, and it's about co-financing investments in local public infrastructure. We don't agree with that. We believe that these funds, which are intended for these tangible purposes, can be saved for many budget consumers, those budget consumers who are not directly linked to the financial and economic crisis, who in fact have nothing to do with this financial and economic crisis, and who could either adjust their spending to or reduce to the level of those times of the fat cows of 2008, will, if possible, still reduce it and save substantially, significantly more than we will do this time when we take those 10 or 20 euro pensions, as far as they belong to harmonisation. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? I can't see the hand, so we're moving on to a full vote on the law. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 34. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 17th item of the agenda – the draft 2011 budget for the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the draft budget changes. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. The general part, the specific part and the development programme plan shall be considered as a special part. But I leave the leadership to my colleague, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We therefore continue with the 17th item of the agenda, this is the 2011 draft of amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the draft amending budget, first of all to a general work debate. Anyone want to talk about the general part of the budget? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the general part of the budget. We are moving on to a debate on a specific part of the budget. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the specific part of the budget. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16 November 2010. With regard to the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I would like to point out to you that they relate to the change in the level of resources in individual sub-programmes under different users, which is why these two amendments are being discussed within the framework of the first-mentioned user. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is a user of 1212, the State Council, the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, and, indeed, the LDS is a user of 1911, the Ministry of Defence. We are therefore moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to a budget user of 1212, the State Council and other users. The Home Committee and the Government of the Amendment don't support it. Anybody want a word about this amendment? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I think it's gonna take a little bit more time, 'cause there's a little disturbance inside the gym right now. However, a few words about the amendment, which, in the Slovenian People's Party, in fact, this two-year mandate is constantly repeated in the course of the budget's consideration, but we are aware of the fact that there is no possibility of being adopted, but we would like to draw attention to some other logic, to the logic that exists in the Slovenian economy and not to some bureaucratic logic based on this, "but take as much as you need". With this amendment, we would like to return to the consumption of those budget consumers whom we believe are not crucial to the imposition of this financial crisis, which is not those who must play an important role in alleviating this financial and economic crisis in these difficult times, so that we can return their consumption to the 2008 level and bring it down by 5%. This is, of course, I agree, a radical cut, it is a radical cut over and over, as we had in the case of the previous law, when we have actually frozen all pensioners' pensions, so we suggest that to all these budget consumers, which are huge, I will not list them, for long and even frozen spending, we can call it. This is done by all normal managers, normal directors of companies in crisis situations, then the costs are frozen to the ground if it is necessary to replace someone else in this case if they are not willing to lower costs. I believe that we are in a time when we should be thinking exactly the same in the public administration. In short, in all those offices, agencies, and so on, you can easily put up frames, so much you can spend and end. If you're not in a position to do that, you need to replace the director or the boss, as they call it. This is how we gathered to call it, I think, 191 million, poor 200 million for 2011, and we haven't distributed them. So that's actually how much we would reduce the deficit, which is huge, a billion and a half. However, these savings could also be earmarked for investments or an incentive to the economy if it were the interest of the government coalition. We therefore reiterate that in those areas that do not give added value that do not deal with the financial and economic crisis, it is necessary to tighten the belt to the end and even more. There's no time to waste, there's no time to waste, as it's called, and today I've set a fine example in our house. We got all the new monitors a while ago. My old monitor worked well for me, and there was no reason for me to get a real TV on the table. I think that other budget consumers might think similarly, because we probably behave in a similar wasteful way somewhere else. I propose that this proposal be adopted to reduce spending by 200 million and thus the deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Now, of course, is the city and the time for discussion, dear Mr Žerjav. As I said earlier, I would like to point out in the case of our ministry what we have done in the area of savings and how this is shown in the substantially reduced amount of public financial expenditure and guidance only and only in the part that you rightly say and expect to have added value to it. If we first look at the soft parts that you're aiming at, and you say, "Let's reduce the number of employees, rationalize", and then in another point of course, "stop the growth of wages, lower wages". If you look at 2008 how wage funds are moving in our ministry, 289 employees in 2008 spent 9 billion 900 euros and more. In 2009, it was necessary to transfer the impact of wage reform in September 2008 and salary increases, 10 million 403 thousand and more. In 2010, when the first package of austerity measures was actually stopped or we reduced the number of employees by 5, we used only 50,000 euros more than in 2009, that is 10 million 460 thousand. In 2011, we have only 10 million euros left. So in this part, Mr Žerjav, we share the fate of all budgetary users, especially direct ones, when we reduce funds or wages by 5%. This implies the freezing of the remuneration of individuals. Where are we going to save the other 5%? With the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System – remember when we wanted to regulate this anomaly, these are on-calls – we also reduced the positional supplements. This law has now entered into force, we have to reduce the positional allowances under the regulation, we have joined the Directorates, we will not replace anyone who goes into retirement, and the scope of work and tasks has actually increased. So we're going to have to do the same or more with less-paid people. Thus, the cost of work shows that, in fact, from 2010 to 2011, when we were able to influence, they are reduced by 5%. If I look at the integral resources provided for the Ministry of Public Administration in 2008, there were over €65 million, we have only €50 million left for our operations in 2011. Therefore, the integral resources for our ministry's work are falling by more than 23%. It is true, however, that last year we increased the European Union's spending programmes, and these are the only funds that we are increasing, the means of informing the E-social project and the Single Entry Point project from 3.5 million European funds to 11 million and 500. At the same time, we need to maintain the state administration's information system with 10% less resources and needs are much higher. But we actually reviewed all the contracts, negotiated more reasonable and lower prices, and so we did everything we could to save. If I tell you what happened to us during this period with material costs. In 2008, a million and a half euros were spent on this ministry. In 2009, we have already reduced material costs and will spend a million EUR 257,000. In 2010, only a million more euros. So, from 2008 to today, we have reduced the material costs necessary for the work of our body by 30%. What can we actually do about it? With an absolute reduction in travel, with an absolute reduction in work through business contracts, works through student service. In fact, we have also limited vocational education and we are in the process of introducing free education where colleagues share knowledge with each other. We've reduced the number of employees. The phone costs had to be very limited. In short, 30% less. In the area of the work of the Investment and Real Estate Directorate, I can say that in 2011, due to truly intensive savings, we are actually retaining only the costs necessary for the payment of rentals for the premises necessary for the work of the ministries and bodies that we are, of course, paying from our budget. We still have an investment in the Pesnica to equip a new administrative unit and 500 000 euros is for the preparation of the project for Jesenice. That's all in terms of investments. In short, in the budget of the Ministry of Investment and Real Estate at the Directorate of Integral Resources, we have in fact seen 64% of the decline in integral resources to invest in meeting the spatial needs of the state administration, where it is not necessary, where buildings are still meeting the needs for work. There are no investments during this period. So it's just rent, leasing and running maintenance. In all areas where we do not threaten programmes that are urgent and which mean increasing the competitiveness of our economy, this is the area of intensive measurement and removal of administrative burdens, where we aim at European funds, then we aim at European funds in those information investment projects that will constitute de-de-barcation and lower costs for our citizens, in the development of the e-Social project we are upgrading the e-VEM project in order to reduce costs for businesses. Only this part has increased resources for us, and only by redistributing European funds. In fact, it is a contraction in an extremely large scale that has never been recorded at the Ministry. But we're doing it gradually. But this is the part that is reflected in every budget, when we need to know how to turn immediately, as in the economy. I do not want to discuss structural reforms here, of course. But there are many of them, which also mean optimizing the state administration and bringing together and centralising support services, but I don't think that's a topic right now. With regard to administrative units where amendments have also been tabled to reduce funds for the work of administrative units. These are state administrative units that manage administrative services at the first stage for many ministries. As extremely rational as these administrative units were addressed with around 2 000 757 employees, there were 2 000 835 in 2008 and there is no replacement. The material costs required for their work are mainly intended for postage costs, material costs and the necessary updates of information equipment, as the biggest problem is the failure of informed public administrations to operate on an up-to-date and daily basis and the collapse of systems. Administrative units are extremely, extremely austerity. In 2011, there was a college of chiefs of administrative units where, in fact, they made a great deal of effort and actually saved money, because expenditure, as they were in the past, we simply cannot afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Žerjav and Mr Pukšič applied for the debate. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Government representatives. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, I agree with you in the part where you talk about your ministry. If all the ministers in this government had done as much savings as you did, today would not have been this amendment, but would have saved, I think, not 200 million, but 400 million. Minimum. According to my data, you reduced spending by 8% in 2008 and not by 5%, as I propose in this amendment for all other budgetary consumers. So this has to be acknowledged, and I have repeatedly admitted to you, as far as your ministry is concerned. But unfortunately, there are only four ministries that have reduced spending by 2008. Only four are ministries. Development and European affairs, foreign affairs, public administration and defence. All other ministries will spend substantially, substantially more in 2011. There are also ministries that have nothing to do with this financial and economic crisis. And there are also consumers who have nothing to do with this financial and economic crisis. This, however, needs to be stressed. And with something that I disagree with, and in this amendment a number of administrative units are covered, which means that if we follow logic 2008 minus 5%, there are probably reserves in administrative units, and that the reserves are also in the courts, one way or another. The amendment has been prepared for all those users who, according to our assessment, have nothing to do with this financial economic crisis, and by some economic logic we can limit consumption, as all normal managers and all normal directors do in the economy. When he creaks, he just squeezes and it's over. And there's no debate and there's no debate. I say, in part, I agree with you, I give you credit for what you did in your ministry, as you no doubt do. And it would be good if all the other ministers in this government followed the same logic, but we would be much better off.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers and coworkers! This amendment to the budget would be very simple or, in fact, very easy to replace, so I say, replace it, you will probably agree with me, Minister, by drawing on European funds. Do you agree? Yesterday, the president almost wept, he said, "I'm really not happy with what's going on and how it's happening to draw on European funds." It's too small if he cries, but he's not happy. He has to hit the table and say, "Dekline and boys, whether we start or not!" What's the main problem? The main problem with all this is that there are simply no calls. And since there's no calls, it doesn't come to all the other stages. In fact, first there must be a call, then there must be a decision on the granting of funds, so someone must apply when you have a decision on the granting of funds, you must also carry out an operation, you must do it, then you must certify it, or first pay it out of the budget, if these are local communities, are local communities, if other entities are, when this is done, are others, and when this is done, you must request a refund from the state budget and then the RS can request reimbursement from the Brussels Treasury and when the request is made, it gets certified and returned to the budget. But look, Minister, on 31 December 2008, how long did the previous government have to implement the tendering and validation instruments. Given that all three operational programmes were negotiated with the European Commission from June to November, two June, one November 2007, this means that only one year had an ex-government of time. And in that year, according to your records - the Ministry of Finance - the value of certified cumulative instruments was about one billion 289 million, that is, about one billion three hundred. If she did so in one year, then I would now expect the new government to confirm this every year about as much of these instruments. But in 2009, there are 790 million in 2010, that's right, I have to be corrected by 31. 8, 680 million. How long till 31? 12, we'll see, it's probably going to be 10, 20 or maybe even 100 million. But anyway, you already have 500 million deficits in the first year, in the second year at this point, 600 million. If you get another 100 million, you'll have 500 million deficits again. Then what can you expect? The submitted applications for reimbursement to the confirmatory body – this year is 560 million. Why? Because in 2007 there were so many instruments needed for drawing opportunities. And then in this table on the right, we've had an increase in the last 8 months. And then you look, machine gun, there are 75 percent certified claims in the cumulation! What manipulation of numbers! If I'm the president of the government, I get this report on the table, all those who have prepared it, I push it! The next morning, they've got workbooks and let them go home and fuck with their kids. Children should be "fucking" at home, not with budget money, which is the only thing available at the moment, so to speak, for investments. If it wasn't as it was shown, I believe that the President of the Government even thinks that, I don't know, he looks, because that's okay. Of course, if you don't go read all that little print and see where it stops. That the matter is truly critical, they also show more detailed data for January – August 2010, where it is seen that by the end of August, we have used 61% of this extraction, about 160 million from 260, and that we will probably achieve this. It is the other two sources, both the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, where disaster is. In 8 months, we have absorbed 25% or 133 million of the 535 million in structural funds. Yeah, God help me, it's a cohesion fund! In the Cohesion Fund, however, 7%, out of 200 million 14 million. Without worrying, it's such an alarming state that all of Pahor's red traffic lights should be on fire, as far as that's concerned. Yeah, but he doesn't actually have another one! These are the resources this country has, and there is no other than that. And why is all this happening to us? And then, clearly, we are intercedeing with an amendment to the budget to, however, mitigate this enormous deficit. And these deficits that you are planning for 2011 and 2012 are in fact based, in fact, on the power to draw on European funds. And there won't be any! Yeah, why won't they? Because the instruments for the possibility of such drawing have simply not been confirmed. Not now to explain or to think that there is more to be done in 2012. It won't work! Although the formula is 2-7-13 plus 2, until 2015. Do you imagine that you will go with the invitations to tender in 2012? Then when are you going to certify them? When will you be able to file a request for reimbursement from the European Treasury? It's just gonna be impossible. Why is all this happening? Unfortunately, because some people had too much appetite to share them just like that, in their own way, as it did at the end of the day, if you want to – there was definitely an irregular distribution of funds at the Contingents, where discrimination against operational programmes was evident. Then there will be a change in these operational programmes, where, for example, for railway infrastructure Slovenia proposes a re-evaluation of the value of priority projects, and the European Commission will reply that Slovenia must ensure that projects are actually implemented. And the European Commission notes that it is very concerned about the slow implementation of projects. If this is already written down by the European Commission, then it must be very clear to the last one here in the country, at home, that obviously we will not draw on this money. You were lucky or you allowed yourself to have the formula, so it was said, I hope that we held it, of course we didn't see it in writing, you didn't give us any document, the minister said the last time on the Committee on Local Self-Government that formula N+3 had been extended to N+4. This means that the right to draw after three years or now after four years, that means 31. 12. next year. But if we go in terms of the option of drawing, we should be able to pump about 2.2 billion in total this year, and we might be able to do it by the end of year 1.2 or 1.3 billion, which actually means one whole billion minus. And you can imagine what will happen when we discuss in two years maybe some other rebalancing for 2012, when we find out the same thing. And this will be a disaster that Slovenia will find difficult to swallow. But with what will you answer, colleagues and colleagues, why don't you do it? By mismanagement of this country when you had the confidence of the electorate and the electorate that you must manage the country and every year we warn you. Every year. In 2009, you missed half a billion euros, in 2010 – you are currently missing 600 million euros, even the possibility of drawing instruments. As a result, of course, there will be no certified claims. This year, according to the 2010 budget or the 2010 budget rebalancing at this time, there is about 50% there and correct me if I have made a lot of mistakes. Therefore, such stupid growth tables are completely meaningless in comparison with the previous year or in the last eight months. As far as I am concerned, I will support this amendment and believe that it will also depend on a great deal in the life of this country in 2011, which is coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Ms Matej Vraničnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to two arguments put forward regarding the explanation of this amendment. First, let me mention and explain that the Government does not support the amendment. The amendment means a drastic incision to the costs or to cover the costs of the various institutions. This does not only mean cutting labour costs or providing funds for labour costs and for material costs, but in some cases also constitutes an intervention in other expenditure, including certain investment expenditure. As I say, I would like to respond mainly to two claims. First of all, the claim that funds are being reduced to those institutions that do not contribute to the economic crisis or that there is no added value in their operation in relation to the fight against the financial and economic crisis. Let me draw attention to the fact that, in this amendment, a significant proportion of the resources of the inspection services have been reduced in a variety of areas: the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, a number of other supervisory institutions, for which we have also, today, also in previous discussions in the framework of the various legislative projects discussed by the National Assembly, found that they need to be strengthened in order to ensure their effective work. If I limit myself to the area I know the most, it is to an area which also falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, this is in the area of the Tax Administration. It has only been mentioned several times today that we need to make more effective collection of public benefits so that they do not need to be increased. Therefore, regardless of the situation in 2008, the Tax Administration needs to be strengthened as soon as possible, not with additional people, but with modern information support, which will allow for effective collection of duties and thus a greater inflow into the state budget. And let me mention that, once this project is completed, we are also promising up to 100 million additional tax revenues in the state budget. The second statement to which I would like to respond is that we are increasing expenditure for all ministries in relation to the state of expenditure in 2008, except for the four budget users mentioned above. I think it is necessary to look at the structure of these expenditure and, in no ministry, to increase expenditure on labour costs and not to increase expenditure on material costs, but to increase expenditure on various substantive purposes. If I limit myself to the Ministry of Finance, we are increasing the interest on public debt financing by 300 million and on additional transfers to the pension fund by 100 million euros. Other ministries could also provide similar information, particularly for those ministries that are key to the management of the priority policies set out by the Government in the exit strategy and further confirmed by the appropriate allocation of resources for the management of these policies in the 2011 revised budget and beyond for 2012. In short, there is a need to draw on European funds. We are aware of the problems that exist in this area and that we are solving problems. The problems arise in different areas and must be addressed through different measures for individual consumers of European funds and for supervisory authorities. However, we need to be careful that we do not want to go into the loop as quickly as possible and that we are too easily approving individual projects, because then we will get a headache over the resources that will have to be returned. As in other areas, we are also trying to improve this situation, while at the same time we need to ensure very close control over the use of these funds so that we do not get into any more trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party? Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u171	Very briefly. Obviously there is no point in talking about the budget, at least this is how participation in this Chamber shows, because this budget is not being adopted in Parliament, it is being adopted elsewhere. And also this amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, we will be very honest, we had no great hope after what was adopted, just as it had not been last year twice, three times. However, it is an attempt to demonstrate that there is definitely something to be done in our public finances, and that this path we are taking is not the right way. It's the path that's gonna give us a headache in a few years. It is therefore necessary to do more than come to Parliament with a budget with amendments to the budget, which, if they come from the opposition, do not have any opportunity to adopt, but should be done in structural measures in the country a little earlier and also later through the budget document. As far as the use of these funds and the use of resources in our society and the organisation of society is concerned, I think that in the area of crime detection, identification of those who do not pay in the budget, they would have done much more if they had the structure of the state, as it was 20 years ago, when most of the events at horizontal level were regulated, supervised in regional environments, as opposed to today's centralisation of the state, that every ministry of every inspector has already been regulated so that it is directly accountable to the one who is, at that time, his minister, in view of the Chief of Inspections and, in fact, at the local and regional level, no longer operates in a relationship. I myself think, given that it has been said how to increase these resources, that we are on the wrong path, because we are increasing funds to build some also repressive buildings, buildings where the repressive authorities are here in Ljubljana, and we are slowly moving and drawing people from the field, from the environment. There is now a process within the Ministry of the Interior to reorganise police administrations, where someone estimates that this most quality staff is no longer needed in regions such as Posavje, Koroška or Notranjska. I am talking about this in the budget because I think we have the wrong approach and we all think that by centralising the country we will save this country. And even in the absence of jobs that need to be reversed and not increased in the public administration now, that is exactly what is happening to us. Centralisation increases the number of jobs in the centres themselves, and these jobs come slowly from the periphery to the centre of the country. Similarly, in drawing on European funds, changes in operational programmes are taking place in this direction, withdrawing from state roads, withdrawing from any castle and going back to some major projects for which I fear that if they succeed, they will only produce a result after about 5, 10 years, let alone put on a short deadline, as has been foreseen in the past, including drawing from the European level. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have put this amendment in a strong sense of the reality of the Slovenian political space, that it has very, very little room for adoption, but at the same time we wanted to draw attention to the policy that is in the country of leadership, which we consider to be wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I do not know, Mr Vice-President, whether anything important is happening in the National Assembly, given that we are here now at such an important point as the 2011 budget, 9 Members. With you 10, I'm sorry. Something's wrong in this country. Really. 10 members at the 2011 budget point. Excuse me? With all due respect to the two Members, absolutely. But this is a key document where it breaks if I understand exactly what I'm reading from the media, the coalition, whether it stays or not. And now we have a key debate on the amendments, on the document, and here we have 10 Members. But well, I wanted to say something else. I agree with the Secretary of State, it is necessary to look at the structure of individual budget items, but I have also pointed to this several times. There has been a change in this budget, a change in shape. We went in some direction of the programme budget where the programmes are listed. And we have a phone production program and a fundraiser production program. We'll set up 100 units for the phone program and 50 units for the pen program. In this budget we do not see how many of these 100 units we will spend on this phone for labour costs, how much we will spend on raw materials, how much we will spend on energy, how much we will spend on stock financing etc., etc., etc. We also do not know what will happen to the production of this rainy feather. And if this were stated as usual, it would be easier to discuss amendments, including efficiency and consumption for the individual budget user in this budget. So the program and within the program of those terrible numbers that are listed there for each program is hidden everything inside. One gets the feeling that this has been done deliberately, that it will be even more blurry, that it will be even more opaque and more difficult to monitor individual items in the budget. I would take this form of budget as an annex, as an interesting view, an annex to some basis where you have all the costs clearly indicated for each item. The cost of work in the State Council, with the Ombudsman etc., etc., is not the last in the individual programme. Nothing helps me to say that we will, I don't know, devote EUR 100 million to an active employment policy, I mean, if I don't know how many of these 100 million are actually meant for an active employment policy, how much is it for a service, according to the local word. And that would be good to see. And you can't see that. There are four ministries that have lower consumption than in 2008 than in the year of fat cows, as has been said many times. All others, finances 475 million; work and family 435, I understand, social policy, transfers and so on; higher education 162 million euros more, I understand; economy 153, I would expect even more if we were talking so much about establishing or competitiveness and so on; local self-government 87, we are hearing that pumping is not going well, despite all the criticism we received at the time of the new government, how bad we were, we are now finding that it is not the best; environment and space 74 million; traffic 59; culture 37 million Euros more than in the time of fat cows. You will never and never convince me, because unfortunately many in these ministries have never been to any company, never and never met that the company should be able to save, save jobs, provide wages, never have you been in such positions. I'm sorry. You only saw the companies from the car when you drove down the highway.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the implementation of the honourable Member of Mr Bogovič in order to ensure that structural changes in the reorganisations lead to a reduction of officialship in those areas where they provide the services closest and most cost-effective to our citizens when necessary. With a thorough review of the exit strategy, where there are structural reforms where we estimate that the biggest savings should be made, if you want, you will see that we are aiming at a more optimal organisation of ministries. We started with ourselves. Therefore, the first analyses, which have been carried out and reviewed in the ministries, including within the scope of the support services, if you want to, within the scope of the procurement services, the scope of the services involved in the provision of premises for the functioning of the Ministry, for the state administration at the primary level, for which the individual ministry is truly competent, then to provide the space needed to carry out the activities that each ministry carries out under the law. The merger, the centralisation of support services, which are now centrally already in Ljubljana, of course, does not mean anything but that the employees who are currently doing this scatteredly in the ministries and who are professionally doing the same things will begin on the basis of the two laws you passed in Parliament less than a month ago, will unite. In the context of these centralisations of ministerial support services, the Prime Minister has repeatedly indicated the ambition to reach a smaller number of ministries, 18 for a country with two million inhabitants, suggesting that action should be optimised by reducing the number of ministries. However, there is no way to reduce the number of ministries unless you analyze the situation first. And the analysis shows: the centralisation of support services, that is, in one place, everyone is doing a service for all ministries, and at ministries, it is imperative to strengthen what is now being described. In 2009, when we adopt a resolution on normative activities, when we see how we are implementing the legislative procedure at government level, how we are preparing the regulations, we have found that this part, given that many of the regulations put into place outside the ministries, has made this potential very poor not only through the drafting of the regulation, has diminished the second part, that is, the assessment of the effects of the regulations or the evaluation which was immediately in force, when the regulation enters into force, must be carefully monitored at ministerial level for one reason, whether the objectives set by the Parliament and targeted by the Government as the ordinary regulator have been achieved. If we didn't, why didn't we, and the rule has to be changed. In this crisis, we have been flooded with regulations, where we find that we do not achieve the objectives, so that it is good to act, but they do not work. And the third part, which needs to be substantially better organised and strengthened, is intensive, strong and independent control over the enforcement of regulations. These three key tasks are further considered by the section after a thorough analysis by the ministries. And most importantly, the Ministry, in future with strong teams in cooperation with the public, is expected to carry out these three units: drafting a regulation in cooperation with the professional and other public, evaluation, analysis of the impact of the regulation and really effective supervision. These services are today too weak, they will need to be strengthened, brought together by those ministries that are very difficult to coordinate today, as you know best. This is best seen in relation to the citizen when the administration sends people because of their indiscretion from one official to another. Here, too, with the concentration of these tasks, which must be coordinated, they could do much more by combining them under one cap. These are major systemic changes that cannot be made overnight. They need to be made in one sense, with one sense and in this direction the exit strategy of the objective is actually going. We certainly have no objective of reducing the quality of services in all our regions, where the country operates with its exposures, administrative units. This is absolutely not the goal, and so far, with such a austerity budget, if you want, the government's assessment of not having to. It is bad in those countries where they have to do so violently, where the simple ministry is faced with a 20% reduction in costs. Then something goes in the direction of forgiveness, something in the direction of lowering wages, and certainly also in the direction of cutting programs. The Government's wish was that, until we rationalise our processes, but first and foremost, we do not optimise business processes, work costs and understand, we do not have the right to reduce the scope and accessibility of public services to our citizens. The assessment is that this budget, for the time being, allows us not to interfere with the rights that our citizens are accustomed to. Once again, in the field, reducing services is not yet envisaged, with one sustainable policy, I hope that it will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I see a desire to discuss it. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u177	Minister, I am pleased with this debate. I think that the view from the periphery to Ljubljana is different from Ljubljana to the periphery, although I do not think I come from the greatest periphery, but we are slowly becoming, given the trends that are taking place in this country. I am talking about the fact that it is absolutely necessary not to follow this vertical everywhere and always follow that the matter begins and ends with the Minister and with some connection at the summit, at the Ministry of Ljubljana, as you speak. I am talking about that we have brought this country to the point where, in fact, there is no more cooperation between the various authorities at the provincial levels. Let me tell you about the case. When we tried to stop one of the privates who had the production of plastic in an insufficient way, I finally, after five writings at five different ministries myself, took this step that I invited all these five inspectors into my office and confronted them and said, "Dear colleagues, excuse me, here you have five letters, and now you agree on who is responsible for what and how we can solve the problem." I think that the main problem in the inspections and that these matters should have worked earlier at the regional level, so that, as at times at the interstate inspectorates, these inspectors could sit together without being summoned by the mayor, because they were interstate inspectors and they were able to go up and assess when to take a chance on the tax administration, when to take a step also to some repressive authorities and solve the problem. Today, however, it is happening to us that in this government, once in one ministry, the second in another is happening and each of the ministers is implementing their own reorganisation. As we see in our space now, as regards the police administration and the decree of the Minister who is responsible for internal affairs. By the way, it is also possible to find that even where there is a silent reorganisation in some 6, 8 regions that no one hopes to talk about aloud. Similarly, it is now happening to us that slowly from month to month it is now on one body, now on another body, which is clearly indicated from the councils of the chiefs of the administrative unit that once it loses some jurisdiction of the geodetic part, the second it loses its tax dollars and so on. This I think is a mistake and I think we should, in a way, not argue that that is why the political regionalisation of Slovenia is also necessary. However, in an administrative sense, I think that today we are paying a great price because it is not at the intermediate level of this coordination and where problems arise, we do not all face certain problems together. Either this is in cases where there are offences, or, if you want, flood protection or some regional route to be placed at a longer level. I touched three of them, but I could still talk. In this part I'll give you the right that it's not just a number, but so much pay, but it's very important in this public apparatus how effective it is. If you have time in the congregation to draw on European funds to have an increased budget and to benefit from it, there is really no time to reduce the number of people. But if that's not the case, it has to be done. I think today we have a major flaw in the functioning of the state administration in this efficiency. And in my opinion, the problem of only these connections that have occurred in these years is a great reason for this inefficiency.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u179	I know I'm a little fluid, but since I think this is an important point, I would add something to the reason for this amendment, which is intended to save money. I have shown in the National Assembly these graphs, which I now have, or I do not have in electronic form, here, but they point to the fact that such an amendment we are proposing is actually justified. Here I'm going to show some graphs of some of the individual budget consumers on the Service and Commodities item, so material costs, how this consumption is moving over the months. It is very interesting that the month of December is particularly devoted to this or, in particular, in December, in some way, this consumption is increasing franticly with a view to simply using individual items in the state budget and thus providing a basis for the next budget. And so for 2009, I will only show some of the most exposed budget consumers, at the Service and Commodity item: the General Secretariat spent 138% more in December than the average from January to November, the Public Payments Authority of December by 199% more than the average from January to November, the Energy Inspectorate by 243% more than the average from January to November, the Defence Inspectorate by 264% more, the Budget Supervisory Office by 404% more, the Equal Opportunities Office by 800% more. Do you think this is serious? I will continue: Ministry of Education and Sport, same item Goods and Services, in 2009, 71% more, Ministry of Foreign Affairs 77% more, Ministry of Defence 105% more, No, Madam Minister, this is yours, 119%, Ministry of the Interior 147%. I can show you an administrative unit like Žalec, 253%, Rybnica 278%, well, Logatec is, of course, a winner, 420%. I promise we'll do this analysis for this year. I have already announced to the Minister of Finance in some way that we will ask for information because this logic needs to be changed. I didn't understand it until I got to the Ministry, and I didn't expect it, and then I was surprised at what was going on in December, so let's have the item, and let's spend the item so that we can put another 5, 6 % on this item next year and we'll have more in the next year. This is this consumer logic that I'm talking about, which is completely different than logic in that worst economic society. I'm sad that it can't be told in some way or achieved that everyone could make a difference together. This is just one item, this is the item Goods and Services. There are hundreds of such items in the budget, so I won't say thousands. If someone were to get one analysis done, seriously, what's going on, I'm sure it's going exactly the same. And here are the reserves. But we would really need a little bit more economic logic, that's all. Thank you very much. And I won't be answering again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? I conclude the debate on the amendment to budget user 1212. We are moving to budget user 1911, Ministry of Defence and other users. The SD, Zares and LDS groups have tabled an amendment to this user. I'm putting this amendment to the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 1213, State Election Commission, sub-programme 120101, Activities of political institutions. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has given an amendment to this budgetary user. I'm putting this amendment to the debate. Since no one wants a word, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 1516, Office for Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme 120201, support for NGOs and civil society. The amendment was tabled by the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Gonch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. First of all, I want to shed some light on two things. Since there's been a lot of debate, I'm not going to go into some general discussion. Formally, there are two amendments here, but during the coordination we have united ourselves to impose the amendment that has been tabled here under order number 2. That is why we have also announced our support today, and I am also now announcing my support for this amendment, and at the same time I am pleased to note once again that this extremely important substantive issue has been understood by the budget proposalr. The first amendment, however, remained somewhat unfortunate in this context, because it was made with a technical error and we have completed and it has remained in the procedure and would now no longer be discussed. I would also like to add that, in the case of this amount, which provides a minimum level of RTV for Hungarian and Italian national communities, this is absolutely necessary because otherwise there would be a reduction in the already provided programme, and this would be inconsistent with all the promises and agreements that were between the national communities and the Government and also between members of the national community. I am pleased that this agreement has been reached and I propose that an amendment under order number 2 be approved in the procedure for the validation of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on the proposed amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate with the budgetary user 1516. Moving on to budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance. The amendment was tabled by the DeSUS Group and the SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Of course, with a very sober head and a desperate attempt to call off the gentlemen who have tabled the first amendment – given that at this amendment they are actually building public confidence in their political role in the National Assembly, one would expect them to come here when these amendments are discussed, and say and explain very carefully that we will know why they are actually putting it. This amendment speaks of the thing we have heard about in the intervention law. The fact that, with €38 million, fellow Members of the parliamentary group proposing this amendment, and some others who speak of similar things in a similar way, are willing to show people that they will solve the problem of the lowest pensions or people who receive the lowest pensions. With 38 million, what they think needs to be achieved will be achieved. This is that the second year of pensions will be aligned with 50% of wage growth. In doing so, they do not say that this 50% alignment with wage growth for those with a thousand EUR 800 pension, I think this will be the highest, and for those with 400 EUR pension. This means that those with 400 euros in pensions will receive 2 euros a month from these 38 million — I am exaggerating and I do not know exactly how much this is, but let's say something like this will probably bear. Those with a thousand 800 will, of course, get four and a half times that, which means nine euros a month. Where there is what they say so much about, 263,000 pensioners are below the poverty line. I know that this is a catastrophic situation, I know that this is very bad, by the way, I'm going to say that the biggest part of these people are women's sex, because most of the pensioners who live alone get the lowest pensions. But this amendment is purely mere conjecture. It's just a simple hoax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I also conclude this debate on the specific part of the 2011 budget. We will vote on the amendments today after the end of the discussion on the budget package or on Thursday. Would you like another piece of information? Mr. Visjak, can I read the information again? The vote will take place half an hour after the discussion on the budget package is concluded, but we know that we still have development programmes, the 2012 budget, then the ZIPRO and two decrees, and probably today there will be no vote, or on Thursday, 18. 2010 There is no debate, Mr. Visjak. You've received information, we're moving on to a discussion on the development programme plan. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the 18th item, this is the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the complementary draft budget work and the amendments tabled, namely the general, specific work and development programme plan. I am putting into discussion the general part of the 2012 Supplemental Draft Budget. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the general work on the basis of the notifications I have already given, so that I do not repeat them. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. The amendments will be discussed on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 16. 11. 2010 First of all, I am moving on to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party to various users, which relates only to the reduction of funds in different sub-programmes within individual users, and does not at the same time contain a proposal to increase funds in certain sub-programmes. This proposal is therefore included in the opening of this review of the amendments. So I am putting to the debate this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to the hearing of user 1611, Ministry of Finance, and the amendment tabled by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u185	Not to be too long, all I'm going to say is that those of you who want to know what I'm going to say about this amendment should look at the magnetogram of the previous amendment I spoke about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u186	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss any further, I inform you that we will decide on a specific part of the supplementary draft budget on Thursday or this half-hour after the finalisation of the budget package, in accordance with the timetable. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u187	Mr Vice-President, this is in your power and competence and there is no need for any vote. I note that the debate on the two budgets, the 2011 balance and the 2012 budget took place extremely fast, unexpectedly fast, which, of course, I have no objection to. On the contrary! Two more decrees and a law on the implementation of the budget are before us. The Budget Implementation Act, I understand, is not even on the table. I therefore propose that today we stop work and continue with the decree and the law on the implementation of the budget tomorrow at nine o'clock. We're very fast. This is your decision to make, and I think this is the most rational decision if we do not want to improvise on both decrees and on the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I believe that the President's proposal will be supported by a complaint, but if you allow one complementary proposal. Is it possible that we should only consider the 2012 development programme plan for the budget so that we have two decrees tomorrow and ZIPRO? We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan and I am opening a debate on this proposal. Nobody wants to talk anymore or even want to talk. We will therefore vote on the development agenda plan tomorrow. Mr Jerovšek spoke on a case-by-case basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u189	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly! From this year's budget, two budgets, you've made a farce. I do not recall ever interrupting the debate, first the explanations of the groups of Members, then the second law, then the evening, it is no wonder that there is no debate. Budgets should be the central thing in the country and in Parliament. But you've made a complete farce, and it's logical that we don't want to discuss it from the protest. We don't discuss protest. And just as the country is imported, Parliament is imported, and everything goes somewhere, and it is not clear when to debate when the state budget is being voted on. Apart from the fact that the budget is such a salad that the living God can no longer be known from it, because you only collect items and the computer writes and writes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u190	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. I consider it your comment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u191	I'm protesting again. This way you cannot run this country and this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u192	Mr Jerovšek, I consider this to be your comment. But I would point out that I haven't seen you in the hall for the last two hours all day, and that's why I believe you don't know what the Council of State has decided. We decided in accordance with the programme that was prepared. If you'll excuse me, as the President has suggested, I'm adjourning the meeting for today. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 9:00. More notice. In ten minutes, this is said at 20.35 will be held in a large hall at Tomšič's meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission or the continuation of the meeting. Thank you very much. Good night.
