ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Anton Anderlič, Janez Ribič, Villa Trofenik, Mag. Anton Rop and Milenko Ziherl. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Before I give the floor to a representative of the Government, I would also like to point out that you have a table review of the amendments of 25. 10. and published correction of one amendment. That is why I inform you that by the time you discuss the amendments, you will be given a new examination on the table, the cleansing of the amendments. So much for information. Now, as I have already mentioned, I give my word to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. We will continue to address his twin, the law on public procurement in the energy, water and PTT services. Therefore, allow me to present the introduction to both laws together, because the solutions we implement in one and the other are completely identical. A key point of change in both laws is the implementation of part of the Law Protection Directive in procurement procedures. This is only part of the directive; another part of the directive will be implemented in the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, which the Government is preparing for a new one, because so many changes are needed that we cannot perform our task with amendments and additions to this law. In addition to these solutions, which the directive itself brings, there are several other issues in the law and allow me to briefly present them to you. The first most important solution is a solution related to so-called low-value orders, namely changing low-value procurement procedures, proposing a change of thresholds for goods and services from 10,000 to 20,000 euros, and building from 20,000 to 40,000 euros. The procedure for the collection of three tenders so far is hereby terminated and it is envisaged to be published on the portal also in the case of these public contracts. Last year, the government has already achieved such behaviour with existing legislation and the results have been good, and we believe that this solution will lead to a significant improvement of the system, in particular in terms of opening up competition and lowering prices. The second issue, which is important and which you have looked at several times in the National Assembly and requested solutions, is a solution that interferes with payment discipline between the main contractor and subcontractor in procurement procedures. We are under an obligation in existing legislation to clearly regulate the relationship between the main contractor and the subcontractor, both in terms of the type of transaction that the subcontractor will carry out, the payment deadlines, the execution deadlines as the type of task itself or the part that will be carried out by someone. At the same time, the so-called appellation contract is also required. This is a contract to which both parties agree, or this is a three-party contract between the contracting authority, the main contractor and the subcontractor, whereby the contracting authority can pay the subcontractor directly without any intermediate article and any subsequent delay. There were a number of comments on this provision in the debate at the Committee on Finance. We have studied everything once again, but at the best of will, and despite the limitations that the bond law also imposes, we have not found a better solution. We therefore believe that this solution could be appropriate. We deal in more detail with the list of tenderers with negative references based on false statements, with the role of the State Audit Commission leading the infringement procedure being important. When the offence is concluded, such a person shall be listed on that list. There is an extension of criminal provisions and of the most frequent errors. However, we are introducing some other matters that make the procedure clearer and resolve some of the under-regulation that we have so far. I think that the law is of such a nature that it will improve procurement procedures in the future, so I propose that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskole to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Hello, Madam Secretary of State! Fellow Members, fellow Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law at its 13th meeting, on 14 January. The Committee was provided with the following materials: Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service with comments to each article and most of these comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the three coalition groups, as well as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations supporting the proposal for a law. The proposed law has been tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Zares and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. As additional material, the Committee was also provided with written proposals from the three coalition groups and the proposals of Ambassador Bogdan Čepič for amendments to the Committee. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative pointed out that the amendments tabled by the three coalition groups largely follow the comments made by the service and, as had not been taken into account, explicitly referred to the comments made on Articles 19, 26 and 29. These comments refer to a reminder of the lack of clarity of the voluntary notification of ex ante transparency and to the introduction of new rules for direct payments to subcontractors requiring further examination of the legal consequences of the solutions so proposed. In the course of the discussion, the Committee adopted its amendment to this Article in the context of its consideration of Article 18 and of the SDS Group's amendment to this Article. This is a question of a fixed minimum price-to-value ratio of 60:40, which is completely eliminated by the proposed law because, according to the bill's proponent, it has proved to be problematic in practice several times because it gives more importance to price than quality. In the opinion of most members of the Committee, however, the Slovenian situation in this area is specific and causes certain problems, which makes it inappropriate to leave the assessment of the relationship between the criteria to the contracting authority. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee was submitted to maintain the current fixed relationship regime, which should be examined further and possibly amended, even in order to provide for the establishment of different minimum weightings for different sub-legislative areas. In the context of the consideration of Article 57 and the amendment of the three coalition groups to this Article relating to the arrangements for nullity of contracts in the event of a reasonable suspicion of criminal service, the Committee took into account the warning regarding the non-constitutionality of the solution so proposed. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee to define the nullity of contracts in accordance with the present provision of the last indent of Article 110 has been tabled. The Committee further formulated and adopted its amendments to Articles 6, 10, 18, 25, 37, 57, 58 and 64, taking into account the Committee's written proposals for amendments to the Committee and the proposal for amendments orally put forward in the debate. The Committee adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Real - New Policy and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. He did not accept the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome and support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement, both the one we will talk about at the next point and the one that speaks of public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. In fact, it is a matter of remedying the shortcomings. It is a matter of rationalising public procurement procedures, reducing administrative costs, reducing deadlines in public procurement procedures and increasing transparency. A number of important changes are particularly important for those who are or meet as contracting entities or contractors in the procurement process. In the Slovenian National Party, we particularly welcome the so-called introduction of the so-called anti-corruption clause, which will place tenderers who have made false statements in the register of suppliers with negative references. This is, in our opinion, the strongest argument and the most important element of this law's proposal for amendments and amendments to the law. Others are important, but this is the one who will probably be able to make the most order in this area. In view of the non-discipline and all the lumpias that took place between operators and subcontractors, the contractors had contracts with the contracting authority and the subcontractors were chosen just like that and by the way and by the way. Last but not least there were the most problems, even the contracting authority had them when the contractor did not pay its subcontractors for such or other reasons. The proposal for this law provides an excellent opportunity for the contracting authority, subject to the agreement and agreement with the contractor, to directly compensate subcontractors for the work they have done. In addition, it is a good solution for the contractor to specify in the offer exactly who his subcontractor will be and what this subcontractor will do. It was true, however, that we talked the most about the criteria on the working body, or whether it should be as much as it was, so as to be the strongest and most important criterion of price, or should we follow European guidelines, directives that emphasize that it is more important than the price of quality - what should we actually do in this case with regard to the specific Slovenian market? In one or the other case, many who find themselves among the poles and who know how to find holes in the law will take advantage - in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - of taking advantage of these holes in any case, if we have the price as the strongest element in the choice or if we do not have it. The same can be done if the quality is the main criterion because it guarantees quality with guarantee hands, and then you look for these people, it is difficult to demand the fulfilment of the guarantee conditions; in short, the lumparius is everywhere. That way, both content, we feel, or we are sure, will solve the anticorruption clause. Even in this law we cannot change anything that is wrong, we cannot change anything if we do not change consciousness and subscribers and performers. In short, there is great news in this law, which is very important, and we are glad that the government has made this law once. It was also felt on the working body that there were no political disputes here, but in this area there are mainly expert opinions and the search for the best solutions. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement in these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings, Madam Secretary and co-workers! Of course, public procurement is important, and at this time in which we live, it is necessary to deal with the topic. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be fully committed to both solutions in this and the following law. Since we are living in a time of crisis and recession, there is certainly still a way to discuss, discuss and decide how we will do the most with the money we have at our disposal. Public procurement has always been and will be an area of diverse interests, as well as because of the complexity of the area, certainly subject to different professional interpretations. By its very nature, public procurement must be strongly regulated, simply stated that the rules of the game that we want to do the most in the country with the smallest amount of funds are already precisely and precisely defined. It should be noted that Slovenia is a small country and therefore a small market, and that strong networks, lobbies, have been created in this area, which in various ways want to exercise their interests and influence certain segments of public procurement. That public procurement is a very important topic, it is clear that the annual award of public contracts is worth over, I stress, over €1.5 billion and it is an incredibly large amount of money. It is therefore good for us to think about this law: every law has its own advantages, its shortcomings and weaknesses, and nothing else in this law; but it is the task of the Government as a proponent and us, the National Assembly as a legislator, to update the legislation. And when it turns out that there is something to be added, something to do, something to improve, we do it. And today we are working with these two laws for the good of Slovenia, our budget, that's exactly what we are doing. Thus, the present proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Public Procurement Act brings new solutions, especially important to us in the following areas. The financial discipline of relations with subcontractors shall be regulated. The price-quality ratios of the contract item are redefined. I must say that we cannot say what is more important than price or quality at the parliamentary club. We want to draw up a law in which we will achieve both, so that in the end we will pay both the price and the quality of the product. Every time we talk about reducing bureaucratic barriers, there is a rationalisation of procedures. This law and the following also answer this question. We introduce or update the so-called blacklist. On this blacklist, I must say that there are relatively few companies in Slovenia. This is not the country's fault, of course, it is the fault of all those who are engaged in public procurement in this country, that when we see that someone with data that is not real is not complete, we, of course, reject it, and at the same time, with the blacklist proposal, we also do so that the problem caused by one investment could be repeated on another order at another time and another place. Of course, other important solutions, which further define the termination of procedures and the rejection of all offers, the introduction of legal instruction and so on. However, we paid particular attention to the solutions relating to the payment of subcontractors in the parliamentary club. The year we live in will certainly be marked, among other problems, by the problem in the construction sector, and we are here trying to ensure that those who do their work honestly and qualitatively will also be rewarded for their work, especially, which is important, within a reasonable time frame. Because, exactly as a payment non-discipline, delays in payments are one of those areas which cause the Slovenian craftsmen, entrepreneurs in the field of construction or other services the most difficulties and therefore all these solutions are, in addition to greater transparency, transparency and the prudence of the use of tax money, also an important counter-crisis measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats Group will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State and my associates! Introducing the position of the Social Democrats Group on both items of the agenda, as the content of the amendment, both the Law on Public Procurement in Water Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services and the Law on Public Procurement, are in fact complementary. The secretary of state said that in fact both marriages are related. For both laws, changes concern both systemic issues and procedural improvements and amendments to European public procurement legislation in all areas. Thus, the changes in both laws are similar. The delivery of works through public procurement is an important generator of economic growth as it accounts for about 13% of GDP in Slovenia and is comparable to the share of the European public procurement market in the European Union, which is around 16%. Of course, this share is linked to the economic power of an individual country and also to the developmental orientation of individual economies. We estimate that it is therefore important to address the shortcomings of the legislation that have emerged in procurement practice and to rationalise procurement procedures. The current amendments to both public procurement laws relate mainly to the reduction of administrative costs, the reduction of time limits in public procurement procedures, increased transparency in procurement procedures and the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises to the public procurement market. In the Social Democrats Group, we support the solution of key systemic changes to financial discipline, both in public procurement procedures and later, when the contract is implemented and it is necessary to protect, in particular, subcontractors who assume a large part of the responsibility for the quality of the contract, together with the employer. In the 2010 and 2011 Budget Implementation Act, we have written down and committed ourselves to carrying out both investment works and payment of goods and services paid from public finances within 30 days. An important provision laying down completely different financial frameworks for the establishment of financial discipline in general also seems to us to be extremely important, if not a key provision, which is set out in the Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, that the contractor must indicate in the tender when performing with subcontractors. This has been so far, but it is new that it must provide information on the part of the contract carried out by the subcontractor and as a mandatory component of the contract between the contracting authority and the contractor as well as the supplier’s consent on the basis of which the contracting authority may pay directly to the subcontractor. In addition to the above-mentioned powers and consent, the contract of execution of the contract must also contain the value of the entire contract and the period of validity of the contract. Infringements of those requirements are defined in the draft law as an offence. With a view to regulating financial discipline in public procurement carried out by subcontractors, it is also envisaged that appropriate sub-legislative legislation be drawn up. To a large extent, this will protect the small subcontractors who eventually lost their pay because the contractor did not want to pay or calculated on the tender and thus left subcontractors in particular. Let us just remember the case of the construction or adaptation of the elementary school in Majšperk, where, according to my information, the subcontractors were still not paid for their work today, and we could probably find another example of highway construction and more. This does not, however, reduce administration, and to a large extent protects small operators and subcontractors and protects financial discipline in this area. The reduction of administrative barriers is in other areas that this law also introduces. A large number of discussions have also led to a provision in the procurement process which discusses offers based solely on price and price and other criteria such as quality, life cycle, services or construction, technical advantages, aesthetic and functional characteristics, delivery deadlines, servicing and the like as the most economically advantageous offers. In the case of the most economically advantageous offer, the law in force so far stipulated that the share of the price must be at least 60% regardless of the type and value of the other criteria. This requirement for a minimum price-to-other ratio has proved to be problematic in practice several times because it gives more value than quality, thereby moving Slovenian legislation away from the European acquis, which does not know this limitation. The law removes this anomaly and lays down criteria and weightings and thus brings the liability to the contracting authority. The amendments to both laws alone do not address any shortcomings detected in the implementation of public procurement in practice. The current amendments already change almost a third of the scope of the law and therefore, according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, from the point of view of the nomotechnic guidelines or the law should be amended or cut after the creation of the new law. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement in the water, energy and transport fields and the law on public procurement, which will be dealt with at the next point, together with the amendments proposed by the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting from the secretary of state with a co-worker. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services is very extensive, as the proposed amendment amends more than a third of the scope of the basic law, which is also a border and has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. While we support the law in the SDS Group, we have certain comments which I will give below. One of the key systemic changes is the regulation of financial discipline in public procurement procedures where the tenderer performs with subcontractors. The tenderer must thus indicate in its offer not only the subcontractor to perform the contract in question, but also the details of the part of the contract to be carried out by the subcontractor. The power of the tenderer and the consent of the subcontractor on the basis of which the contracting authority may perform and pay the works or supplies directly to the subcontractor shall be the mandatory component of the contract between the contracting authority and the successful tenderer in the event that the tenderer is performing with the subcontractor in the proceedings. In the procurement process, the decision on tenders is based on price or price and other criteria such as quality, life cycle of the product, services or construction, technical advantages, aesthetic and functional characteristics, delivery deadlines and so on. In the case of the economically most favourable offer, the law in force so far stipulated that the share of the price, regardless of the type and value of the other criteria, should be at least 60%. In our view, this solution is not bad and we do not see any need to amend this provision, as it has also in practice proved to be a good solution. The amendment also introduces the institution of withdrawal from the contract, allowing the contracting authority to withdraw from the contract under the award of the contract on the grounds that the subject matter of the contract is no longer required or that it no longer has the resources provided for it. The derogation from the contract in the event that the contracting authority does not have the resources provided for it is in our opinion incomprehensible, since the contracting authority must prioritise the funds in the budget and therefore provide the resources for it. This was also the position of the Legislative and Legal Service and also adopted by the Committee on Finance. The bill also introduces new criminal provisions for the tenderer and extends the criminal provisions for the contracting authority. The law requires that a tenderer who has submitted false statements or evidence in the tender be excluded from the procurement procedures and has been fined by the State Audit Commission for that offence. Such a tender shall be entered by the Ministry of Finance in the register of tenderers with negative references published on its website and shall be excluded by contracting authorities for a period of three or five years, depending on the subject matter of the contract, from the subsequent procurement procedures. It is not possible to enforce legal protection against the inclusion of tenderers in the records of tenderers with negative references. The law also introduces the term 'low-value procurement procedure' instead of the current term 'up to €80 000 tendering process', thus making it easier to distinguish between the lower value procurement process, which is up to €40 000 or construction up to €80 000, and the process of collecting bids after a previous publication comparable to the European open procedure. As it is said, in the SDS Group we will support the law, as well as the Public Procurement Act, which follows the second point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The amended Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services seeks to address the shortcomings of legislation that have proved to be in practice and to rationalise procurement procedures. The changes should focus on reducing administrative costs, reducing deadlines in public procurement procedures, increasing transparency in procurement procedures and making small and medium-sized enterprises available to the public procurement market. The advantage of the law is also to comply with the European Community Directive on improving the efficiency of public procurement audit procedures. Although that Directive regulates the area of legal protection in procurement procedures, it is appropriate to include certain solutions in the substantive law in the field of public procurement. The procurement system is based on the principles set out in the Treaty establishing the European Community, namely the principle of free movement of goods and services and freedom of establishment, the principle of cost-effectiveness, the principle of efficiency and efficiency, the principle of ensuring competition between tenderers, the principle of equal treatment of tenderers, the principle of proportionality and the principle of transparency. These principles, however, are in some ways contradictory, which also stems from concerns about violations of this law. Where and when the right limit is for certain solutions is theoretically difficult to determine. For the solutions that are before us, we can say that their purpose is certainly good, but whether their measure is right will be shown by practice. We have questions and concerns in the Slovenian People's Party. One of the key systemic changes to this law is the regulation of financial discipline in public procurement procedures where the tenderer is performing with subcontractors. As a mandatory component of the contract between the contracting authority and the successful tenderer, the subcontractor’s mandate and the subcontractor’s consent shall be determined on the basis of which the contracting authority may pay the subcontractor directly. Sounds great and nice, as they call it, but there are many questions. Firstly, we believe that systemic measures are needed to address payment non-discipline, in particular, to address the problem in general and in general. What about the payment discipline of all other entities in the Republic of Slovenia? Is it actually gonna stay unresolved? Is it right that in this case the burden of solving the problem is passed on to the contracting authority? How will such a contract look in practice, which will have to contain all the required information regarding subcontractors? How much will this complicate the procedures and affect their cost-effectiveness and effectiveness? I hope we have the answers to these questions, because we would certainly like to hear them in the next debate. The law introduces the term "low-value procurement procedure" instead of the term "procedure selection procedure" and provides for the publication of a notice of public procurement on the public procurement portal. This should ensure greater transparency and competitiveness for small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby enabling access to the public procurement market and reducing the potential for corruption and customerism in the field of public procurement. It's all good and good, and so do we. How much will this affect the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the procedure? We want it to have an impact, of course, and therefore we support the solution. In the case of the economically most favourable offer, the law in force so far stipulated that the share, prices regardless of the type and value of the other criteria should be at least 60%. According to the proposer, the bill removes this anomaly and leaves it to the contracting authority to determine the criteria and weightings and the associated liability. At least we find this solution controversial. Who will now ensure that in such procedures the price, if not at least, will be a fair criterion. Despite these three main concerns, we will support the bill's proposal in the parliamentary group, as we support its purpose despite doubts about greater economic efficiency and efficiency. This is to ensure greater competition between tenderers and greater transparency of public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Ministry representatives. Colleagues and colleagues. We have two laws before us that regulate public procurement and more or less are identical materials, except for certain specifics of this law, which is currently on the agenda of the agenda. Amendments and additions to both laws require systematic amendments to existing regulations, introduce procedural improvements, and some new developments in these two areas are proposed to adapt our legal order to European legislation. The fact is that the field of public procurement is an extremely important area, which is not underestimated in particular by, inter alia, the use of public funds. The public procurement system - the general public procurement in the water, energy, transport sector, in the field of postal services with the proposed solutions will be standardised to the greatest extent possible, so that public procurement will be more efficient, more rational from a procedural point of view as well as in terms of efficiency, more transparent and more competitive, and thus accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is now of paramount importance for their existence and position. We have assessed that the regulation of the issue of financial discipline is appropriate and believe that the situation in this area will be significantly improved for the benefit of subcontractors who are mostly small businesses and craftsmen. Efforts to improve public funding management in procurement procedures are also very positive. The fact is that much will still have to be done in the area of control over the implementation of the sectoral laws and thus for the rational use of these funds. It is also justified to expect that both contracting entities and tenderers will behave more responsibly in the proceedings, as the solutions proposed will also require them to avoid harsh sanctions and, consequently, for tenderers, for the loss of business due to the classification on the so-called blacklist and for the prohibition of participation in public procurement proceedings for a certain period. If the offer has not been corrected, fair and square, the provisions of the law will also have to be consistently respected. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposed legislation is appropriate for confirmation, since in the content of the proposed amendments and additions follow both the warnings of the professional services and the aims and objectives that the proposer wanted to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments submitted to you, as mentioned earlier, today on the bench of 26. 1. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Who wants to discuss the two amendments to Article 2? Please, Mr. Likar, please. If we have to, then we'll open the application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In the SDS Group, we propose an amendment to Article 2 by modifying point 28 by saying: "The low-value procurement procedure is a simplified procurement procedure in which the contracting authority calls for at least three tenderers to be tendered or, in order to obtain tenders on the public procurement portal, publish the intention to award a public contract," the tendering procedures or so-called low-value contracts, namely up to EUR 40 000 for services or the purchase of goods and up to EUR 80 000 for construction, are mostly used after the current regulation when the contracting authority wants to quickly select a quality and reliable provider with which it has already had positive experience. And such orders are mostly obtained by small businesses, to whom this is the main source of income. Therefore, the amendment proposes that this option be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Just a minute, Mr. Blacky. If I understand correctly, you said, under the second amendment, the right of the parliamentary group to Article 2, the 28th point changes by saying - here we have an amendment that says, "point 30 changes by saying so." Is there a misunderstanding? Please, Mr. Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	This is the Public Procurement Act, paragraph 28. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	And me. To know, the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	But it says 30. Come on, please, clear this up in the middle. I'll give the floor to Mr. Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	Nice greetings to all present! Therefore, the definition of the subcontractor in this Article is intended to address this problem arising from the procurement process or payments or defaults of the main subcontractor to subcontractors. Unfortunately, it must be said that this attempt by the coalition will not produce fruit either. It will happen that in most cases the operators will have one subcontractor in this case and this will satisfy the legal provision and this subcontractor will then no longer be tangulated by this law. And what was the purpose of the law to regulate payment non-discipline down, unfortunately this amendment will not be fulfilled or achieved. It is true that this is a problem that cannot be settled in an easy way, but when the law is remodeled, it would be right to pay more attention to it and settle it in such a way that it will also have an impact in practice. In this particular case, I fear that this effect will not occur and that practice will show through ingenuity that this provision will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, I shall conclude the debate on both amendments to Article 2. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group. Who wants to discuss the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Please, procedurally, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, Madam President, to clarify first whether this amendment is even possible to be considered. For what this amendment says to be recorded in Article 49, paragraph 6, is also written in the seventh paragraph of this Article. It is impossible to write the same text twice in two different paragraphs. In my view, the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 18 is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service and the services accompanying the drafting of amendments and laws that anything would have been wrong, so the amendment remains in the debate. We continue the debate. Anybody want to talk about it? Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	This amendment refers to the fact that the paragraph that says that "the most economically advantageous offer must be evaluated in a certain percentage of the price criterion," replaces by the words "the contracting authority must establish the criteria in such a way that the tenderer who made the offer for all packages and the tenderer who made the offer for one set or part of the sets are in an equivalent position." This is also the case in paragraph 7 of this Article. How can it be formally decided on an amendment repeating the text of one paragraph earlier? That's impossible. And this amendment cannot be formally decided. Now that he has remained in the debate, it must be said that this is an essential amendment, on which it is also dependent support or non-support to this law. This provision removes the evaluation of the price criterion in the most economically advantageous tender. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the contracting authority may decide to take into account either the lowest price or the most economically advantageous offer in the selection of tenders. And in this latter law, the law in force sets out what can be valued in terms of the most economically advantageous offer: appropriate solutions, references, specifications, etc., but in such a case the price must be valued at least by a certain percentage, 40 and 60% is the ratio laid down by the law. If this amendment is adopted, as proposed, we will have the sixth and seventh paragraphs for the first time, which will be the same. Secondly, this will delete the provision which now, when assessing the most economically advantageous offer, determines what price criterion must be in this context. That's not gonna happen after the new one. To understand what I'm talking about. Now Slovenian Railways, or I don't know why, because they have a lot of highly qualified experts and the Pahor government has said that the external advisory contracts will no longer be provided by people who are employed in these institutions, the selection of a so-called consultant for advice in the rehabilitation of Slovenian Railways. The bids, we read, are the lowest of about half a million euros and the highest of about 2 million euros. If this amendment, which you propose, is adopted, the most expensive offer can be formally chosen. Formally correct, no one will be allowed to ask anyone why this was the case because the price criterion in accordance with this amendment you are proposing will not have any weight if the contracting authority so decides. This is a very dangerous field. A field that opens up opportunities for corruption and clientele action on the one hand, and it is the legislator who should prevent, but not encourage, the possibility of such behaviour with appropriate legislation. And here at this point, with such a reform of the law, these practices are encouraged. Why? There is no reason for this, there is no reasonable justification to change the paragraph which speaks of the evaluation of the most economically advantageous offer, which should take account of the price criterion in a certain percentage of this valuation. The only smart answer to this is that you will be able to choose counselors, such as and other consultants at prices where value will not matter at all. You will be able to choose a consultant for 10 million euros, someone else will offer the same service for half a million euros, and no one will even ask you why you did so, because after this amendment of the law this will no longer be possible because this will be the matter of the contracting authority. Just like he'll decide, that's what he'll do. If it is decided that the price criterion is zero in this valuation or 1% will be only one percentage of the price criterion, all the rest will be the criteria that we know that everyone can subjectively apply them as he wants, as the Court of Auditors subjectively applies Article of the Law and Rules of Procedure, which can, in one case, determine that it is a worse breach of the obligation to do good, and in the other case that it is only a breach of the obligation to do good - without the criteria! In one case, the discharge of the responsible person is required by law, and the law does not say who the responsible person is, is once again the subjective criterion here, in one case it may be the minister and in the other case it is the director of the fund, and in the third, if that person is on the right political list. And it's something similar here, of course, because it's tax money here, for the money of all taxpayers, to be treated economically. This amendment, or this amendment, allows for the decision of the individual contracting authority in a particular case. This is an entirely unnecessary change. The most elegant thing to do would be not to consider this amendment at all, because it is formally incorrect, controversial. We will essentially decide that the sixth paragraph is the same as the seventh paragraph, of course, by deleting, if you so decide, the essential provision of this article, which refers to the price ratio and the remaining criteria for choosing the most economically advantageous offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Just information. In the meantime, we checked the claim that an amendment was formally incorrectly tabled. We have found that it is not, therefore, formally correctly filed. The coalition wants to establish a state of law by means of this amendment, establishing provisions such as those before the amendment on the home working body. Please, Mr. Blacky. Would you like to discuss it? Procedurally. You have time to debate, you can also discuss these matters. Here you go. You have the floor. You want strict, explicit procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	I'm going to discuss the procedure because what you said isn't the answer to my question. I would ask you to get a written position on the Legal and Legislative Service, what will happen if this amendment is adopted, and I would ask that this position be on the table before we conclude the debate on the amendments at this point of the agenda. Because if we adopt this amendment, we will have in Section 49 of the Law paragraphs 6 and 7 which will read equally. For this amendment, proposed by the ruling coalition, proposes an amendment to paragraph 6, but not an amendment to paragraph 7, which was adopted on the home working body and which has complemented the text of the applicable law, while retaining the word in paragraph 6, which refers to this price ratio in the most economically advantageous offer. And I would ask that we get an opinion on what will happen if this amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	Yes, of course, this proposal will be accepted and before the vote you will receive the opinion of the relevant services of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. Blackach, procedurally? Substantial, Mr. Blackach, then Mag. It's a crane. Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	See, this is a major amendment to the law, and I would still ask that today, at this meeting of the National Assembly by the proposer, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance learn what is behind this amendment of the law. Because what we heard on the Committee on Finance was not arguments. Today I would like to hear what the argument is that this criterion is changing. There is no argument that there is no such thing in Europe. There is a lot of practice in Europe and Slovenia is not following this practice. There is a lot of value and standard in Europe, and Slovenia does not follow these values and standards. It should also be borne in mind that the public procurement practice in the European Union countries is significantly longer than in Slovenia, that it has only been implemented in Slovenia before and that this practice must also be guided carefully by regulatory mechanisms. For this reason, I am interested in what is the real need for this to change, especially because individual members of the Finance Committee from the ruling coalition have also supported our proposal on the Committee - a proposal which we now have in law has preserved this distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'll give you the word "magic" first. And then he gets the word "secretary of state." Please, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. According to my assessment of the solution proposed, therefore, to withdraw this criterion is not good and is actually a step back. I understand the bill as well-intentioned. So the purpose of the legislator is certainly to take a step forward in this area, to make more order, but with this solution - I don't know for sure we all want to go through this law, for the first time, to increase the competitiveness of suppliers, contractors and so on. [[...]] In my opinion, as a second time, to give the contracting authority some greater power to be able to fight against "his business partners" so that I call them in my nickname, it is easier to fight to have some legislative support. It seems unreasonable to withdraw the price as one of the most important criteria in deciding on the most appropriate offer. We wonder whether this criterion, which has so far been included in the Public Procurement Act, is in one and the other, whether this criterion is at any time and wherever there is a reason that the contracting authority has not been able to choose the best, most quality, cheapest and, I don't know what else to do with the provider, the service provider and so on. I believe that we must also, through this provision - so that this criterion remains - in some way protect the contracting authority so that there will be no abuse, intentional or unintentional. In this case, I will not mention some of the affairs that are still in the air today, from Patria forward and others, in the fact that this criterion would have been deleted. We do not want to see tomorrow, when this law is passed, and also the next, that any public procurement will be contested in one way or another, because we will all be smart and wise in kind, whether this price is correct or whether the price has been sufficiently taken into account in all the criteria that have been taken into account for the selection of the best bidder. I believe that some minimum criterion in this area must be that we need to talk about the price, that it cannot simply be left to itself. It is theoretically possible that the price will not be taken into account in any public procurement. In short, I don't think we should let that happen, because it's a step back, like I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, the reason why the Government, in its amendment of the law, proposes to abolish the fixed price-to-other ratio is mainly because it wants to open this provision of the law to other criteria and thus to follow the European Commission's guidelines, which say that quality in the choice of public contracts or the choice of tenderers should play a more important role. In addition, the Government is preparing or has already prepared a regulation which is intended to introduce the "green" public procurement aspect into the procurement system. If we want to introduce environmental criteria among the criteria for selecting an individual provider, then 60% of the burden on the price can be an obstacle to the proper enforcement of different criteria, because it will simply run out of space to the extent of 100% for each other. Let me get you some information. At this point in time, public procurement is considered to be an exclusive selection criterion of 77%. We are confident that this criterion will not change significantly and also the choice will not change significantly, but the possibility is open to the expression of the quality criteria, the life cycle of the product, the technical specifications, such as those which are very neglected at the moment, especially in certain types of public procurement. Price remains a criterion and can still represent a 100% criterion, it can still represent a 60% criterion as defined in the law, but in individual cases it will be possible to do otherwise because other elements or other criteria are more important than the current price. Only this was the purpose of the government in the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Yeah, well, then you don't have to change that, because all of the purposes you've been talking about can now be achieved within the framework of a valid law. The current law makes it very clear that, on the basis of the economic best offer using different criteria, the contracting authority may award a contract taking into account the quality, price, technical advantages, environmental characteristics mentioned, aesthetic, functional, operating costs, cost-effectiveness, after-sales services and technical assistance, delivery date, delivery date or completion date. All of this is indicated, but of course it is limited to the minimum price in such a case. And it's not true that the relationship is fixed. It shall only determine, in this case, how much the price must be, the criterion is the price, at least. And in all other cases, that's 60%, even 40% in intellectual services. It is said that all of this can be achieved under the current law. By changing when these ratios are eliminated, the price criterion will be possible 1%, 2, 3, 5, 10, 50, 100. One of the subscribers will choose the same service under the same conditions, taking into account the 5% weight criterion and one with 90% of the weight. And two subscribers in this country will receive the same service, the same product at a substantially different price. That's not right. Above all, this provision is not right because it paves the way for corrupt-clientism. And if these actions are to be prevented, they must be originally prevented in laws, not then through various corruption commissions. This road is wrong. I am not saying that Slovenia will not be in five years, ten years, at such a point that it will no longer have to be written in laws. But unfortunately we're not there yet, and that's why this amendment is harmful, it's bad and it's not facilitating the position of subscribers. He's making it harder for them. And I'm telling you that most of the subscribers are going to choose the lowest price. Just because they won't be hit by such or other speculations. And the opposite is what you're going to achieve. For this reason, I do not think that this amendment is acceptable. The current regulation is appropriate and allows you to achieve all the effects that you have mentioned a little earlier in this explanation, because all of this is enshrined in the law. However, it is a day through this kind of framework, through which it cannot go precisely because it is in the protection of subscribers on the one hand and on the other hand that it does not go to any other way on this substantive side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree with you, Madam Secretary of State. It could be 100%, it could be 80, it could be 20 or nothing, theoretically. The reason that in this case, when we have a criterion for price, or whether it should be 60, as it is now, and we want to withdraw, or like the SDS proposal, that it should be 40, that then there is no room for any other criteria, and that is "I think really barefoot". You know very well, within each public contract, we can write down whatever we want through the different conditions that the contracting authority chooses and writes them clearly and discreetly. Even in the case of green orders. If we want a green order, we will be inside the public procurement and all the documentation and conditions that have been properly defined within this dossier. And that doesn't mean we can just forget about the price. And we don't want just 40%, at least, to measure the price. I think there's enough room for all the other criteria that we're giving to the client to choose. Everything else can be long-term and widely defined through tender documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 18. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In this 50th Article, we propose in the SDS Group that the number 30 be replaced by 10 and the number 100,000 by 30,000. A new paragraph will appear here in Article 50, referring to the value of prizes awarded to an individual who must not exceed EUR 30,000. However, the value of the prize awarded to the economic operator must not exceed EUR 100,000. First, the question arises where this criterion for these awards comes from. Why this proposed height in this bill? In the Group of Members, we believe that, in addition to the already paid remuneration for the work done, this award is still paid and at such an amount, so we propose that if these awards are already in the lower amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment and Article 50? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38.A agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The representative of the Government explained the draft law already in point 10, so I give the floor to the member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of Renati Brunskole. This committee has, of course, considered this bill as a parent labour force. Please, Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Hello again! Since the substance of the amendments or the proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act or the previous law had already been mentioned, I would not be discussing this for a long time now, as the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also discussed. Perhaps I would just like to point out that the Committee has also paid attention to the provision of Article 28 where a proposal for an additional legal definition of the sub-contractor has also been made in the debate. Since the issues under consideration require further examination, the Committee has not drawn up a concrete proposal on the basis of which it would adopt its amendment to Article 28. In the context of the debate on Article 54 and the amendment tabled by the three coalition groups, the debate drew attention to the unconstitutionality of the proposed solution due to the constitutionally defined presumption of innocence. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also pointed out the inadmissibility of the proposed amendment and the Committee therefore adopted its amendment to Article 54. In the course of the discussion on individual articles, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to paragraphs 2 and 36, since the amendments of the three coalition groups did not fully take account of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The questions require further examination and any appropriate upgrade of the provisions of Articles 2 and 36 at the stage of second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. Let me also point out that in the debate on individual proposed solutions, the discussion focused on the provisions of Article 21 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to this Article. In the debate, most members of the Committee expressed the view that the Slovenian situation in this area is specific and poses some problems, making it inappropriate to leave the assessment of the relationship between the criteria entirely to the contracting authority, as this will once again cause problems that already existed prior to the introduction of the applicable law. It was also argued that this relationship might not necessarily provide for the protection of the contracting authority, but could encourage dumped prices if the contracting authorities chose the tenderers at the lowest price. On the basis of the debate, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 21. The Committee established and adopted its amendments to Articles 5, 6, 11, 21, 25, 36, 54, 56 and 62. The Committee adopted the amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, by Mr Res and Mr LDS, with the exception of the amendment to Article 21, which had been withdrawn, and to Articles 36 and 54, it was of the opinion that it was irrelevant. He also adopted the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 36, but did not accept their amendment to Article 54. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which was also an integral part of this report and which we also have in writing for the meeting, is also prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Once again a pleasant greeting to everyone and a successful continuation of the work day that we started, I see, well, constructively, in an integrated way, in finding the best optimal solution for public procurement in this country as well. We will also give all the support to this law in this part in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, because, as has already been explained and discussed previously, three important laws, including two substantive ones, regulate the Public Procurement Act and the previous Act on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services. The third law, which is the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, regulates the legal certainty of tenderers in procurement procedures. Since the two substantive laws are systemicly similar to the law and the proposed substantively identical solutions, we will, in the same way as the previous law on public procurement in the water, energy and transport field and the field of postal services and will certainly fully support the law under consideration. Once again, from this point of view, it is important to emphasise that we are committed to the proposed solutions primarily by providing financial discipline in relation to subcontractors. That seems important to us. On the one hand, we are aware that this needs to be regulated, that there is a risk of multiple administrations, administrative burdens, here we will advocate that this is as low as possible, that we will not make the job more difficult for the tenderers and thus restrict competition. It is also a fact that many subcontractors have to settle their obligations to subcontractors on a regular basis, so it is also important to bear in mind that they are not further burdened. But systemically, it's always hard to ensure such selective treatment. However, the solution contained is the first right step towards ensuring that subcontractors are protected, since the country must first and foremost be the one that ensures that obligations to actual operators are always settled regularly, especially during this recession period. The next important issue is the introduction of a record of tenderers with negative references. An important issue is also the rationalisation of the procedure and the reduction of the costs related to the verification of the offer and the related determination of the ability of tenderers and a clearer definition of the termination of the procedure and the rejection of all inappropriate tenders. Since time is yet another thing, it is also necessary to touch on what we have already talked about, this is a question of price-to-value relationship, as the Government as a proponent also states that in practice and real life, this has sometimes proved problematic, given the price of greater importance, priority over quality. We are in favour of a real compromise between price and quality, so the legal proposal removes this restriction, which relates only to price, by citing that the contracting authority must design the criteria itself so that the tenderer who has submitted the offer for all sets and the tenderer who has submitted the offer for one set or only part of the sets are in an equal position. This equal treatment, however, is one of the key elements in ensuring the rational use of public money. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore point out that, given the openness of this dictatorship, implementation of these provisions is essential in practice to monitor closely in order to prevent the possible preference of certain tenderers. Finally, we stress once again that we feel that we are updating the so-called black sheets on the spot, because it is also an important safeguard, that the procedures are not additionally administratively burdened, that we do not lose any more time due to unfounded complaints and that those who apply apply with clear and good intentions for the country, with the least use of resources, should be made as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr President. Since the laws are completely identical from a substantive point of view, the position of our parliamentary group is the same as that of the first law. We have a comment on Article 21 of the Act, as in the previous law, we do not see any reason why the situation as was the case with the current regulation of the law should be eliminated. As has already been pointed out today, the question is whether the SD amendment will be adopted or whether we will have an article with two paragraphs which will be the same. The question also arises. whether it makes sense and why the price, which is one of the criteria, is being eliminated. The price is one of the criteria that are not so abstract, all remain more abstract, and there can always be doubts about objective decision making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Dear President, Government representatives, colleagues. Today the National Assembly, in addition to the amendment to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, is also considering the amendment of the Public Procurement Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The solutions in both proposals for amendments to the laws, as you have already found, are identical. The proposal implements the European Directive in the Slovenian legal order and deals with some issues relating to public procurement, which are intended to lead to greater transparency, simplify administrative procedures and at the same time resolve the issue of payment non-discipline. The Committee's amendments make further changes to the legislative text of the coalition in the area of the required skills for the implementation of public procurement, thus improving the quality of this. Otherwise, the novelty takes over the provisions of the European Directive and seeks to ensure the efficiency and transparency of public procurement. The low-value procurement procedure shall be reinstated. These contracts need to be published by the contracting authority on the public procurement portal, thereby enabling SMEs to access public procurement and making them more transparent. Among the key solutions, the Government also proposed to close the price-to-other criteria for selecting the contractor. I must say that we Members of the coalition, including in the Zares Group, have expressed concerns about the purpose of deleting this relationship. Public procurement in infrastructure construction is a major problem, which shows a number of increases in initial or agreed prices with annexes and therefore appropriate solutions must be developed to protect the contracting authority. In the procurement process, the classification of tenders is based on the price, the so-called "lowest price" criterion, or on price and other criteria such as quality, life cycle of the product, services or construction, technical advantages, aesthetic and functional characteristics, delivery deadlines and so on, and the criterion of the so-called economic most favourable offer. The Public Procurement Act provides for a price-to-value ratio. In the case of the most economically advantageous offer, when other criteria are taken into account in addition to the price, the share of the price must be at least 60% regardless of the type and value of the other criteria and 40% if the subject of the public procurement is the intellectual service. According to the Government, this requirement for that ratio is problematic because it gives more value than quality. On the other hand, the practice so far has not shown excessively that contracting entities would be severely limited in the selection of operators due to price-to-other criteria. But it would make sense for a relationship to be maintained. In particular, it would highlight the fact that direct payments to subcontractors, so-called a sign, are being introduced in order to regulate payment non-discipline in procurement procedures. While this requires additional work for the contracting authority, in particular in relation to monitoring payments, this measure, on the other hand, constitutes provision of payments to subcontractors within a reasonable period of time. There was a lot of controversy on the Committee about the solution because not everyone was sure whether or not it would work, or only without effect, to complicate the procedures. In spite of all of this, we support the introduction of direct payments to subcontractors to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, since the main part of the Slovenian economy is just small and medium-sized enterprises. While small businesses and craftsmen are usually not able to carry out public contracts themselves, they are indirectly involved in the public procurement market through the main operators. The failure to pay the works performed or the delay of payment may be fatal for such an economic operator, in particular in times of economic crisis. Otherwise, after our assessment, the proposed and adopted solutions in the amendment of the law represent progress and we expect positive changes in practice soon after adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a law that introduces almost exactly the same changes as the previous law, which we have already discussed. Therefore, our concerns and thoughts are also completely or almost identical. So that I don't repeat myself too much, let me just point out the essentials. The key concerns we have stem from the relationship between the provision of one and the other principles on which the procurement system is based. The solutions ahead of us are, for the most part, pursuing the right goals and purposes, but we wonder whether the relationship between the principles that appear in concrete solutions is right. These answers, unfortunately, we do not have and we believe that time and practice will bring them. Adjustment of payment discipline. As it is said, the idea is certainly true, but we believe that the Government of the problem should move in a more systematic way, systematically. With this solution, we are solving only one segment of the problem, namely subcontractors who work for those major contractors who have obtained the deal through public procurement. What about all the other creditors? Does this problem not deserve a comprehensive solution? Probably, given the payment indiscipline we have in the country. We believe that in this case it is some kind of traffic or traffic, and that we are giving comfort to those who are now engaged in payment discipline, of course, at the expense of non-problem subscribers, they have always been regular payers, and now they will also be solving all subcontractors. This can certainly be a solution, but not a systematic one. We support, as we say, a solution that at least theoretically ensures greater transparency and competitiveness. However, it allows SMEs access to the public procurement market and reduces the possibility of corruption and customerism in the field of public procurement. Whether these advantages will outweigh additional administrative work and the additional procedures introduced in this way will be seen over time. Again, I cannot go beyond the change in the solution in force so far in the case of the most economically advantageous offer, which provides that the share of the price, regardless of the type and value of the other criteria, must be at least 60%. Perhaps the solution is too much and the legal level of the price criterion should be changed, but the solution that defines the criteria and weights, and the associated responsibility, is left to the customer, unfortunately, we do not agree. This solution seems questionable to us. In this case, the applicant appears to derive from the well-intention of the contracting authority. However, if this were a fundamental principle, then the rules on public procurement would probably not be needed at all. We support the solution to exclude from the procurement procedures a tenderer who has submitted false statements or evidence to the tender and has been deepened by the State Audit Commission for that offence, the so-called anti-corruption clause or the classification of tenderers who have made an untrue statement in the register of tenderers with negative references. We also support systemic solutions regarding the Treaty's Institute of Non-validity, namely nullity and dissuasion. In particular, in cases such as the conclusion of a contract contrary to the decisions of the State Audit Commission, the conclusion of a contract without a prior public procurement procedure and where it is reasonable to suspect that individual corrupt offences have occurred in the conclusion of a contract, the execution of such acts or in relation to it. In the SLS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Oh, that's a good-bye again. In assessing the agenda item on the position of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in the Water and Transport Area and in the field of postal services, our Group also identified itself in support of this novel. As has already been said, with the proposed innovations in public procurement in the DeSUS Group, we agree because the proposaler has followed the need to eliminate the anomalies that often occur in public procurement procedures due to the subordination of the rules in force. We expect the proposed improved solutions to contribute to more effective public procurement also because it will be of greater importance than before in terms of the quality of the subject-matter of public procurement in the design of the criteria for selecting the offer. We all know that, on the basis of long-term deadlines, taking into account the best economic offers in a given price-to-other ratio, that is, in particular, the quality and life-cycle of the product, the principle of economy has not been realized. In addition, the introduction of social and environmental aspects into public procurement will be open. Since the novelty introduces a new institution, the termination of the procedure, this is a derogation from the contract allowing the contracting authority to withdraw from the contract after the award of the contract on the grounds that the subject of the contract no longer needs or no longer has the resources provided for it, it is important that in such cases the legal protection of the tenderer is very precisely determined. In this regard, it is also essential that this institute is uniform in both sectoral laws. In view of the above, in the DeSUS Group, we have also decided to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Once again, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, according to the content and purpose they are identical to the law, so the position of the Slovenian National Party on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act is the same as before. We support it because it has the intention and desire, first and foremost, to make order and second, of course, what is necessarily evil, to comply with European legislation. In view of the fact that it was much earlier, there is still some detail that I would like to point out to the lawmakers in particular. In view of the fact that some of the issues that this law is dealing with have been raised, we have been discussing small orders as to how to open up the possibility for those who ask whether three bidders or not. This opens another question, where we see some problems in the Slovenian National Party, precisely by ordering the lowest values, which are limited to 40,000 for goods or 80 000 for construction. But also here, everyone is very resourceful, both contracting entities and contractors conclude contracts for, say, 80,000-euro construction works and then with Annexes come to a real price, which was 120 thousand earlier and they hid it. This is also one of those things that has already been pointed out that it is likely that the issue of payment disciplines and such illegal transactions must be regulated systematically in all laws. And for the end, one more time. There will always be an open question on how to define the criteria on which the contracting authority will choose the operator. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we know that this is difficult. Whether now to leave the price as the strongest element on which we will accept the most favourable or best performer, or to take full account of the European directive, the wish that the quality should be the one that determines the best operator. In both cases, people will find the wrong way through one way or another. At the same time, we would like to point out in the Slovenian National Party that public procurement is an economic category and not a legal category. Why do I say "legal"? Because public contracts are probably a more legal category for us, because they are mostly dealt with by lawyers, judges, because there is too much open possibility that everyone can complain about everything, but of course they suffer from the hands and quality of production. I think it is right to apply this important economic category of public procurement through this law and to take it into account. Both examples of whether the quality or price of the one determining the best contractor should, once again, be of the opinion that the so-called anti-corruption clause will best be resolved by the Slovenian National Party. Or we suggest that if there is any power to introduce an element with which there is already a certain and agreed business to a certain limit, there is a legal limit which allows for an annexation at a certain level. This means that, in such a case, the argument that 60% had ordered the price would have held up and the price would have been the main element when choosing the most favourable bidder. However, if we had a security guard with whom to say the agreed price was allowed only and only, I mean, 5% of the Annexes, assuming that anything would happen, then there would be no more disputes. This is also one of the proposals to help solve this problem that we will face in addressing the amendments. The Slovenian National Party supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act because it seeks to better regulate these contents and in fact it is decided that procurement is only an economic and economic category.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. 2010, that's what we're saying today. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS, and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	In fact, they duplicate the law by asking whether it would not be possible to regulate this matter in a transparent way in a single law. However, the ambition of this article, which must be read in conjunction with Article 28 of the amendment, was to regulate the payment non-discipline of main contractors against subcontractors. The question of whether this can be regulated in the Public Procurement Act. Probably not. Even by what is now proposed here and by this interpretation, which is considered a subcontractor, it will not be possible to do so. That's what I think, but it's clear. And wasting time and making illusions that with this change being proposed now, the problem of non-payment to subcontractors will be settled - I think it's funny. In view of the fact that this law is now written, it is, of course, impossible to expect that the providers will go through this bureaucracy required of them by the law. Someone who has 100 subcontractors and suppliers will not notify under a variety of 100 subcontractors and suppliers at the time of submission of the offer, as this would mean that everyone must be misled in the contract, all invoices submitted to the contracting authority and so on. What's gonna happen? It will happen that most main operators will have one subcontractor. One! And, of course, this one will work with everyone else then, and the problem of this payment non-discipline will remain the same as before. Not one percent will change. Thus, all this effort and all these promises, which are also made to the public, that this amendment of the law will be settled, are irrelevant, and it really should be asked why, if there is a strong amendment to the law, these things will not be looked at in such a way that, in practice, they will also have concrete effects in order to relieve the contracting authorities of strong red tape on the one hand, to prevent the possibility of such or other clientele-corruption links and, on the third hand, to allow this market to perform services and to effectively liberalise and open up to all others. These are the main objectives to be pursued. Unfortunately, I do not think that this attempt, which has been done here in good faith, will achieve this and this area of non-discipline of payments will probably have to be regulated by other mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All proposers proposing amendments propose this in the belief that they are improving the text of the law. Whether they always succeed or not is another question. I have some concerns myself. While I support most of them, I support both laws, previous laws and what we now have to deal with, but I have a very direct question about whether this strong desire to improve our legislation, even by means of directives, may not be too much of a reflection so that these public orders will become for many, especially for those who do not have large teams, large headquarters, which are mainly or only engaged in them, a great burden which will be difficult to bear. And maybe we didn't do any more weaknesses than we needed to. But basically, as I say, I support both marriages. With regard to the amendments, I also allow myself to think a little bit, first of all with regard to the first amendment proposed by the coalition parties that are mainly invoking, so I understand this, to the good experience of the Government from the near past when it published on the portal and thus increased competitiveness or at least the choice of those who are in the tender. But this increased, with the exception of the option, the possibility of offering all kinds of services, which apparently came with underpriced offers, with dumped prices, and were willing to offer their services or work at any cost, because they did not have any such restrictions. Here, it seems that perhaps the innumerable is too loose if we do not take into account what the other amendment proposes. It is also important to take into account the possibility that we have known so far that we have invited tenderers, those who have been tested, those who have not come at all and those who, as well as those in the Engineering Chamber and the Geodesics, consider them to be weaker in their competitiveness, should be given some advantage when they are small and medium-sized enterprises. I will support this amendment tabled by the coalition, and I estimate that it is not good that we have simply rejected the SDS proposal in order to prevent offers, as well as that proposal that speaks of an absolute amount that would be considered a criterion for selecting offers. I don't think this rejection was good. Otherwise, as I say, I will support this coalition amendment as well as the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I think it's right that we are talking about the proposed law, given that the intention is to improve a lot. We are talking more, in fact there are more possible truths as well as content that we agree with in principle in the Slovenian National Party. So direct payment, with the consent of the subcontractors, is a good intention because it saves financial discipline. This is because it is necessary to stress, however, that financial discipline really needs to be regulated systematically. In these cases, too, we would like to warn the Government that there can be many manipulations and numerous legal disputes, so that in fact, with what colleagues have said, this solution can also be a two-sword. The purest thing would be that this is a deal between the contracting authority and the contractor, and financial flows should run between these two. That would be the fairest thing. But since dishonesty is already on the part of the contractor, on the one hand to the contracting authority and on the other hand to the subcontractor, this is a solution in this law which the Slovenian National Party does not wish to deny to potential subcontractors, provided, of course, that the transactions run purely. However, as for the second SDS amendment, I also actually understand it as one alternative, which is a basic proposal for the low-value procurement procedure to be published on the public procurement portal. This is, of course, purely right and fair and means that anyone can apply, but nothing would be wrong if we also left the option so far, because I understand it as an alternative, the low-value procurement procedure is a simplified procurement procedure, in which the contracting authority might be better able to call for at least three tenderers to be tendered or published on the portal for the possibility of awarding a public contract. Unless I get it wrong, I see nothing at all in this option, a two-way solution. However, if this amendment excludes the proposal contained in the bill amending the law, of course, in the Slovenian National Party of this other amendment, if it excludes one or the other, we will not be able to support this amendment. And finally, as has already been said, he holds what no one has spoken about today, but now that we are members of the committees, that is a warning. Both the number of amended articles in the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement and the number of amendments still appearing on this bill, again, I think for the fifth time or for the sixth time, the Legislative and Legal Service has informed us that in all these laws more than one third of all articles are changing, which is a condition for the question or more a condition for the formation of a new law. The proposal made by a colleague on my left is in place. Perhaps not in the future to amend and not to propose a law amending laws, but in the shortest possible time, a law on public procurement must be made: a strong, quality law in this direction that will cover both. Amendments to Article 2 will, if this is actually an alternative, be two options: and we will support. However, if it comes to or or not, we will not be able to support the second amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 2? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	We are once again discussing this change, which is identical to that of the previous law. On the deletion of the ratio of the criterion, the price in the case of the economically most favourable offer. It is interesting to hear about this amendment proposed by the members of the Pahor Coalition, while some in the position indicated that this is not good, as proposed here. I have to say, I don't understand. Moreover, I do not understand this in the fact that one of the members of the Pahor Coalition on the Committee supported a solution that is contrary to the one now proposed by the amendment. This is a strange, two-faced act that has been repeated several times on the Committee on Finance - where we vote something, then we come to the National Assembly, we listen to how some of what has been voted on, you agree, and we see amendments from your side that speak in the opposite direction. With regard to this Article and the evaluation of the economically most favourable offer today, unfortunately, there were no arguments which would argue that this part of the Act should be deleted, no arguments. Not only on the part of the opposition, but also on the part of the ruling coalition, there were quite a few concerns about doing so. And I really don't know why he insists on this amendment, because it's obvious that he's not good and he won't bring any good. We will get that someone for the same service will be able to choose someone for a million euros and another for the same service for someone for 20 million euros. And everything will be formally correct. And if someone on the political side of the opposition does that, he'll get the prosecution, the hair, and I don't know who else. But if someone who is on the political option of a ruling coalition does so, nothing will happen. This is created by this change: disorder, confusion. And that's not good. As regards the dumped prices, this provision has no relation to the dumped prices. In the current law - and this is not changing - we keep the lowest price criterion. If the contracting authority decides to choose an operator, a supplier and I do not know who on the basis of the lowest price criterion, it will apply this criterion and it must be careful and careful not to choose someone who will offer the dumped price. However, the current law already allows him to exclude such a tenderer and not have to be considered further. The criterion of the most economically advantageous offers speaks of something else. And the relationship now laid down in the law does not prevent all the other criteria apart from the price from being used to choose a quality provider. I have already told the committee that it is normal for a designer to find some design solutions much more valuable than the price of this product. However, it is already possible, under the current law, to choose someone who offers 9 million euros instead of someone who offers 4 million euros because it offers better solutions, which will then save tens of millions of euros in the implementation of this project. And it is normal to do so and do so, but it is not good that some conduct that can be doubtful and not good is promoted through law. There is absolutely no need for that. This provision is harmful, once again, for contracting entities, for contractors, for legal order, for everyone. So I suggest you withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Before continuing, I inform you that in the National Assembly we are hosting the Slovak Minister of Defence, His Excellency Jaroslav Baška. I warmly welcome the Minister and members of the delegation who joined us at the gallery and wish them a successful visit to the Republic of Slovenia! Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 21? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 21. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 36. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much again. I think this amendment is formally problematic. I think there is already an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, because something similar has already been addressed at a meeting of the Finance Committee, which speaks of the fact that such provisions cannot be legally enforced. This provision indicates that, following the decision to award a public contract, the contracting authority may, pending the conclusion of the contract, withdraw from the performance on the grounds that the subject matter of the contract is no longer required or that it does not have the resources provided for it. After a decision has been taken, until the contract is signed - what legal certainty is then in this country for the tenderers, who we are talking about in full, we are talking about public contracts that can be worth more than 10 million euros, where the contracting authority must, in an appropriate way, prepare themselves, not just a mountain of documentation, also obtain appropriate guarantees, in individual cases make substantive and technical preparations that are something, and not a small amount, cost. And then this subscriber was chosen. It shall be notified that it has been chosen within an indefinite period of time, since it is not provided for in this Act, the contractor shall be notified that it has been chosen, the contracting authority shall decide not to conclude a contract with him, because it is now suddenly no longer necessary. Yeah, then why did he go on a public contract, because he has to have it defined somewhere, in some development programs, and he has to have the funds in his financial plan? And if he finds that he no longer has the money or that he no longer needs it, he will find little, on the basis of the agreement of the government or the supervisory authority, if it is not the government, that he does not need it anymore, or that he has no money, and he can withdraw from it. This is an impossible provision, and I think it is a legal error, so it would be necessary before we even decide on such an amendment, to obtain a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service as to what this is. Can we in this way systematically break a provision in a law that is otherwise entirely likely to be consistent? However, I do not think that this builds legal certainty and allows for such and other speculative acts that are not good for any. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that anything wrong with this amendment would be with me, but I will remind them again of your comments and also inform you of their position, if anything else. Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	I wasn't talking about the amendment, Mr. President. I said that this provision, this proposal by the Government on the Committee, has been amended. The Committee has adopted an amendment to this provision and has amended this provision. And now it's coming back in the form of an amendment to the Pahor coalition. That's what I'm talking about. And I don't think this whole provision is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Then we talked about the same thing, namely the amendment that is now under consideration. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 36? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk about it? Mr. Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. On this occasion, now that we are considering this last law, I would ask the Secretary of State what the prizes are and why they are proposed at this very level. We're putting down the prizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Depends on the question. This is a prize in the case of public competitions. Public competitions usually take place in larger projects, mainly major construction projects or complex solutions that contain construction and other matters. In such cases, there is a reward for the one whose solution wins or sometimes for the second and third best solutions, cascadingly, so that the winner is awarded the highest prize and the other two are awarded the smaller prize. The purpose of these awards is to in some way reimburse the costs incurred by the tenderer by preparing such a project. Given the size of the projects, very much work has been invested here and this award somehow reimburses the costs invested. If these awards were to be significantly reduced, there is a great danger that good designers, because this is the most often the case for design matters, would not apply for competitions and thus reduce the quality of the final offer and also the quality of individual solutions. For this reason, the Government considers that the values, as proposed, are appropriate and provide sufficient quality solutions in case of more complex competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on spatial information infrastructure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I understand the government's representative is on his way. Two were reported to give an opinion to the Government - Minister of Environment and Space and Secretary of State. Unfortunately, I can't say that you can assume this function. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for an Infrastructure for Spatial Information Act at its 13th meeting on 14 January this year and listened to the introductory supplementary explanation given by Mr Alojz Seliškar, Director General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, who said that the Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community was transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The draft law lays down legal frameworks for the establishment and operation of spatial data infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia as an integral part of European infrastructure. The law introduces measures to ensure consistent spatial data databases and the completeness of the entries of these databases for the interconnection of spatial data from different databases and the compatibility of the spatial data infrastructure. The draft law also lays down the conditions for the use of data and ensure the effective common use of spatial data and services in relation to spatial data between public authorities. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the law, it is envisaged that a national point of contact will be established, and the tasks of this point will be carried out by the Ministry responsible for geodetic activity, or in itself comprehensible, by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service has warned or commented on Articles 14 and 18. For the first, to clarify the conditions for connection with the State communication network and for the 18th, as regards the specificisation of the implementing rules. On this basis, the Social Democrats' Group, Zares and DeSUS and the LDS Club have also tabled an amendment to these two articles. In its opinion, the Council of State also supported this law and adopted the conclusion that the Government and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development should consider an initiative to complement the operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013 by complementing the funding provided for the co-financing of spatial building of infrastructure data from the European Union funds as well. The government also responded and said that it had given an opinion that, despite the fact that the resources for the implementation of the law in the 2010 and 2011 budgets alone were not foreseen, because the law had not yet been adopted at the time of adoption of the budgets in order to provide the necessary funds with appropriate reallocation. In the context of the second reading of the proposal, the Committee held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments tabled and, as has been said, voted on both amendments by the four coalition groups and adopted both amendments. After a discussion on the individual articles, he voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, a further proposal was prepared for the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, which includes the amendments adopted. We have a complementary bill on our hands now. I am sure that this law will also be able to accelerate the preparation and adoption of many spatial, planning and implementing acts, where, in the absence of related spatial infrastructure data, one of the reasons for slow procedures is also one of the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Silva Montenegro has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely hailed director, colleagues and colleagues! The strong development of telecommunications and information technology in the Slovenian government also encouraged the desire for a faster transition from classical to electronic commerce. This desire has also been realized in some areas in the past, and in others there are only strong desires. In the Republic of Slovenia, the need for quality and easily accessible spatial data for the purpose of performing public tasks and supporting business processes in the private sector has long been known and present. Individual public administration sectors have set up digital spatial data for the whole country and made them accessible to users in different standard ways. However, some spatial data are not maintained and vice versa. The same data is collected and led by several different entities. We have often witnessed a lack of documentation on spatial data sets and unfortunately, the existing descriptions of databases have often not been complete and this has also had an impact on the adoption of various spatial acts. The individual database is often not possible to connect to another database. Infrastructures for the search for, access and use of spatial data work separately, but often prevent or impede the sharing of existing spatial data, including from institutional and legal barriers, one of these legal barriers will also be one way that the proposed law will try to harmonise in a manner consistent with proportionality and proportionality. It is not possible to discuss a uniform policy or common legal basis in the area of the transmission of environmental and spatial data at this time. Therefore, in our first reading, there is a legal solution that will implement in Slovenian legislation the provisions of the PHARE Directive, which is based on infrastructures for spatial information that are trained and managed by Member States. The proposed infrastructure solutions of the Information Procedures Act introduce access to spatial information at the forefront of access to spatial information and services at one location and, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in the same Directive, ensures greater efficiency, coherence, quality and easier access to recorded data in the space by means of information and communication technology and the development of new data transmission services. In the Group of Members, we believe that, despite the loose deadlines set out in Directives 2, 5 and 7 years, the extremely difficult requirements that it sets out will be difficult to follow, but this requires continuous modification and monitoring, reporting and correction of this extremely difficult area, which requires intensive coordination and correction of various areas in its nature. In line with the frameworks necessary to achieve the objectives based on this Infrastructure Act, it is most important to point out that in the country and Republic of Slovenia spatial information infrastructure is being established, the general rules for the management and operation of this infrastructure are laid down and enable and ensure consistency of spatial data databases, the completeness of data or the collection and management of single spatial data in several places and at different locations. The law does not lay down the requirement to collect new data, which is very important, as the mass of this data is already present, but this law only helps to regulate and make it accessible. The law defines and defines what a database of databases and data is, classifys the data in groups and details them and defines them very clearly, defines network services, defines restrictions on public access in Article 16, and clearly defines that viewing and searching is free of charge, which will be particularly commendable and will be grateful to all those involved in spatial planning and who have for a number of years depended on the type of databases and their inconsistencies. I believe that creative creators and researchers, as well as architects who look forward to cooperation in the European space, will welcome this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President. Today, the representatives of the ILO, those who were announced, would explain or be here to discuss this law. I would also like to correct my predecessor to have a second reading today, not the first. This is probably a mistake because she read the applicant’s views on the first reading. The Spatial Information Infrastructure Act is based on the European Community Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure. The European Community adopted this Regulation on 14 March 2007. The aim of the Directive is to ensure the need to achieve the objectives of the European Community's environmental policy. The European Community’s environmental policy aims to achieve a high level of environmental protection. All information, including spatial information, must help to develop policies and activities that can directly and indirectly affect the environment. The Directive lays down measures to harmonise information between different providers and users. On the basis of the European Community's request, we also need to systematically regulate and establish infrastructure for spatial information in Slovenia. This information collected in one place will also be very useful to home users. After the adoption of the law, the Government must adopt the operational programme as soon as possible and establish an information system. This task will be undertaken by the Ministry of Environment and Space, or by the Geodetic Administration, at this Ministry. Perhaps it would be only right for the Director of the Geodetic Administration, who is present here, to provide an explanation of how these tasks will be addressed under this Act. Otherwise, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed law transposes the Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community into the Slovenian legal order. The draft law lays down legal frameworks for the establishment and operation of spatial data infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia as an integral part of European infrastructure. The law introduces measures to ensure consistent spatial data databases and the completeness of descriptions of these databases for the interconnection of spatial data from different databases, and the compatibility of infrastructure for the search, access and use of spatial data. The draft law also lays down the conditions for the use of data and ensure the effective common use of spatial data and services databases in relation to spatial data between public authorities. In order to ensure effective implementation of the law, however, it is envisaged to establish a national point of contact. The task of this point will be carried out by the Ministry responsible for geodetic activity. Individual public administration sectors have already established digital spatial data for the whole country and have made them accessible to users in different standardized ways. We can tell them that some of them are quality and up-to-date, but some are not perfect. Some spatial data are not kept, and vice versa, the same data is collected and led by several different entities. We're witnessing a lack of documentation on spatial data sets. However, existing database descriptions are often incomplete. The individual database often cannot be linked to another database because the infrastructures for the search, access and use of spatial data operate separately and often prevent or impede the full use of existing spatial data, including institutional, financial and legal barriers. We therefore support the proposal of the law, and we would like to draw attention to the proposal of the State Council proposing to the Government and the Government services for local self-government and regional development to examine the initiative to complement the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013 by complementing the building of spatial data infrastructure through European funds, in addition to the operation to establish economic public infrastructure, with the appropriate upgrading of public calls for European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, as we believe it is more or less a technical law that really transposes the requirements of the European Directive into our legal system. This Directive has been adopted with a view to the legal regulation of the spatial information system in the sense of European environmental policy, and it is therefore high time that we also accept the legal basis for access to spatial data and related services in one place in Slovenia. Significant progress will be made when there is also mutual coordination and unification of spatial data sets, as this area is currently quite inconsistent. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the State Council's warnings on the estimated resources of €350,000, which you will somehow have to provide under the available resources if you really want to implement the project. In 2010 and 2011, these funds are not foreseen. So, as I have already said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law, but we hope that matters in this area will actually begin to be regulated and that we will not remain solely on legal grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a nice hello. The proposal for the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act provides a legal basis for access to spatial data and related services in one place and for the coordination and unification of spatial data sets and related services. The proposed legal solutions transpose the requirements of Directive 2007/2 of the European Community on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community, as requested by the European Union in order to regulate the area of spatial information infrastructure in order to achieve the objective of European environmental policy. Although the deadline for transposition of that Directive has expired on 15 May 2009, so far only nine members of the European Union have managed to transpose the requirements into their national legal order. In doing so, it can be concluded that Slovenia has a deadline for preparing the Commission Regulation No 1205/2008 of 3. 12. The implementation of the mentioned Metadata Directive has not yet been delayed. The Directive, followed by a proposal for a law, lays down legal frameworks for the establishment and functioning of the European spatial data infrastructure, which consists of infrastructures for spatial information of individual Member States of the Community. The European Spatial Information Infrastructure is primarily intended to support the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of community policies related to space and the environment. The draft law therefore regulates the establishment, management and maintenance of spatial information infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia as an integral part of the European spatial information infrastructure. The proposal lays down tasks relating to the establishment and operation of a network metadata system for services, access to and use of data, coordination, establishment of spatial information infrastructure and the use of spatial information infrastructure, entrusts individual public authorities responsible for the establishment and use of spatial data and services to be provided as an integral part of Slovenia and thus European spatial information infrastructure. As spatial information infrastructure, the law sets out metadata, a spatial data and services database related to spatial data, network services and technologies, agreements on the sharing, access and use of spatial data and services databases relating to spatial data and mechanisms and processes for coordinating and monitoring the conduct of this law. The proposal for a law shall apply to databases of spatial data and related services relating to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in electronic form shall be the responsibility of a public authority or of a third party if the collections are established by law and relate to one or more of those referred to in this Act. For collections run by local self-government communities, this law shall apply only if the collections are determined by law. The list of spatial data sets shall be published on its website by the Ministry responsible for the environment. The draft law obliges spatial database managers to provide the databases and services included in the spatial datasets list by ensuring the uniform labelling of spatial objects, the relationship between spatial objects and information on the time dimension of the data and other details. This bill will not regulate the records on its own, so the responsibility for their completeness will remain with the operators of individual spatial data. This proposal is one of the first steps towards the desired state of play, i.e. the full spatial data record. However, in order to have all the information solutions needed to access or link these data provided in one place, this law introduces single network services. At the same time, the draft law also introduces a national point of contact that will enable the implementation of the law and the subsequent implementation of the EU sub-legislative rules. In the DeSUS Group, we view the bill as a good basis for the establishment of complete spatial data records, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Respectable present. The law provides for actual spatial data infrastructure in order to provide uniform data to be available in one place for the needs of the environment and the rest. The law introduces the EU Directive into the Slovenian legal order. Several measures are being introduced to achieve a situation where data on the existing choice will be collected in one place. In short, it is a single network service that will be updated to this extent so as not to duplicate and allow other users to access it. The law will be implemented gradually in accordance with the individual introduced rules laid down by the EU law, of course, in accordance with the individual operational programmes of the Government, which will bind the competent authorities and provide the means for the introduction of this law. So far, only 9 members have adopted the Directive in the EU, which means that there is no need to rush. As with any adoption of the law, there remain certain doubts, but the purpose of the law to simplify the accessibility of spatial data in Slovenia for the purpose of carrying out public tasks and supporting business processes is to convince us in the Slovenian National Party that we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Minister of Environment and Space, Honourable Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Fellow Members. The fact is that today the data on our space is fragmented. Data collections are generally poorly linked and are not up-to-date and even incomplete. Even more. Some data in the space in Slovenia are not maintained and vice versa, the same data collects or leads several different entities. In short, for many purposes and for many users, the current spatial information is poorly used. Let's just remember what the real estate data were like years ago, what everything needed to be done to create a new public real estate database, and what are the procedures for maintaining and maintaining three real estate records, i.e. the cadastra of buildings, the earth cadastre and the real estate register. As a good example of practice in this area, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we point out an agreement on the rationalisation of business in the exchange of data between the Land Book and the Land Catastrom and Catastrom of buildings concluded last summer by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We need more than one such good practice in this area. The law that we are considering today brings into our legal order the Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Union from 2007. By regulating the establishment, management and maintenance of spatial information infrastructure in Slovenia as an integral part of the European spatial information infrastructure. As spatial information infrastructure, the proposal sets out metadata, spatial data sets and services related to spatial data, network services and technologies, agreements on the sharing, access and use of spatial data and services databases, as well as mechanisms and processes for coordinating and implementing the activities laid down by law. Spatial data infrastructure will thus have to provide such complete, up-to-date, uniform data that will have to be available in one place, in particular in order to achieve the objectives of the Slovenian and European Union environmental policy as well as for all others, we can also say classical needs. It also follows from the technical and professional nomotechnic and terminology of the extremely demanding implementing law that the aim of the European Union's environmental policy is to achieve a high level of environmental protection. The implementation of the law in question should enable infrastructure, i.e. one of the basis for policymaking and activities that can directly or indirectly affect both the environment and other policies in Slovenia and elsewhere in the European Union. In short, the implementation of the law under consideration must provide quality and easily accessible spatial data for the purpose of carrying out public tasks, as well as supporting the private sector. And as the Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia says, this law will not allow records and databases, will not be regulated in themselves, and that responsibility for the completeness of records, for the completeness of spatial data, remains with individual operators of individual spatial data. The law is primarily responsible for measures that will achieve what is required, and we hope that the desired situation in the area of spatial data will also be achieved. Real work is therefore being done by adopting this law primarily for spatial database managers and also for a number of users in public administration, NGOs and the private sector. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, while at the same time we wish to work successfully for all spatial database managers and users to establish this new spatial data system and to cooperate successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 38th a.m. agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 36. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a public presentation of the proposal for a bill on the Triglav National Park. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Environment and Space for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the decision and to the president of the Committee of Mrs Bredi Pecan for a further explanation of the draft decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Let me make a supplementary presentation of the proposed decision, which we have drawn up and adopted at the Committee on the Environment and Space at our 13th meeting on 14 January, and I will start a little differently. 6 days ago, this was January 20th, when we Slovenians celebrated the 90th anniversary of the creation of the 1st nature-protection programme in our territory. On this day, the Department for the Protection of Nature and Natural Monuments of the Museum Society for Slovenia presented to the provincial government a monument for Slovenia in which it justified the exceptional nature of Slovenia on a European scale and the sense and necessity of its preservation. The protection objectives have been reduced to four requirements supported by concrete cases, explanations and proposals. Some of the requirements of the monument have also been met, so for today we can say the most important, this is the contractual insurance of the Triglav Lakes Valley, in 1924, which represents the replacement of the Triglav National Park and the insurance of plant and animal species and caves. We will also celebrate in four years the 90th anniversary of the first start of the only national park in Slovenia, Triglav National Park, which also belongs to the oldest national parks in Europe. The more modern history of the protection of the Triglav National Park, this time a little sarcastically, has a beard for a long time because the Law on the Triglav National Park has been in force for 29 years and is certainly no longer in line with the current order in Slovenia and no longer in line with the objectives set, which is why it needs to be updated. Also, the formation of this law, which will be discussed within about 90 days in the National Assembly, is nearly 15 years old. Shortly after the independence, the need for a new law appeared, but first it was necessary to adopt a system law, the Nature Conservation Act, which was adopted in 1999, immediately after which the Ministry of Environment and Space launched activities for the preparation of the new Law on Triglav National Park and after the adoption of the smaller novelty in 2001, a special section was also set up, whose task was to prepare the test Law on National Park. The solutions drawn up by this group were partly covered by the proposal for the Law on the Triglav Park of ZTPN1, which was submitted in 2003 by a group of Members with a first-signed Dušan Vukko. Unfortunately, this law has not been adopted. However, two public hearings were held in the period until 2004 and, in the mandate of 2004-2008, the proposed law was adopted by Mr Jožef Školč in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, this proposal was rejected by the National Assembly in May 2008 because the Government had put a new draft law on the Triglav National Park into the process. Nor has it been fortunate, has it been adopted and the legislative procedure has been completed in accordance with Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure. Decisions on the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park were prepared on the basis of the broadest possible consensus that could be provided at a given time. In the expert committee preparing the new law, the representatives of the NGO Coalition for the Triglav National Park, representatives of some local communities on the National Park, representatives of stakeholders, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection, the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park and some prominent representatives of the interested public were joined. The expert committee has been active for two years, but, as it is said, failed to get the law in place. We are now seven years before the re-public hearing, which, of course, will be called by the National Assembly, because in accordance with Article 55, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Conservation of Nature, the proposer of this Act. Let me draw attention to the fact that in recent days, Members and Members have received a number of warnings and requests from NGOs, as well as the NGO Coalitions for the Triglav National Park, which urge us to stop the legislative procedure of the Triglav National Park Act, that it is totally inappropriate because the first area does not cover three quarters of the entire park, so that the envisaged level of protection does not reach internationally defined criteria and so on. The fact is that public treatment will take more than 60 days for all stakeholders in the country to propose amendments to the law, which must be acceptable to the majority, in particular the people of the Triglav National Park area, taking into account the national and wider interests of preserving the wealth, the biodiversity of our Alpine Council. The Committee on Environment and Space adopted the proposed decision unanimously, and I propose that Members and Members join us when we vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Karl Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia, and according to its history it is also among the oldest national parks in Europe. So far, over 6,000 different species of living things have been discovered in the National Park. The entire area of the National Park is also listed in Natura 2000. With its presence and traditional activities, fusion, glazing, forestry and pastures, a man who has been present for thousands of years has made an important transformation of the mountain landscape. Cultural heritage in the National Park is particularly ethnological, its wealth and diversity are of great value. The typical buildings of human architecture prove the creativity of unknown masters, who, in their work, shaped the typical image of the cultural landscape of the national park. The first effort to establish a national park in the Julian Alps area dates back to 1908, when the first proposal for the protection of the Triglav Lakes Valley was made. In 1961 there was the protection of the valley of Triglav Lakes with the work of Komarča and the waterfall Savico. Only with the now in force Law on the Triglav National Park, which was adopted in 1981, was the area of the Julian Alps declared a natural landmark. He has fulfilled a ten-year requirement that the majority of the Julian Alps be protected as a national park. The protection regimes in the national park have been in place for more than 25 years and have not changed all this time, which has also led to a number of illogicalities, which are also due to changed social and economic conditions. The provisions of the old 1981 law no longer meet the criteria for the protection categories of the World Conservation Union and, on the other hand, do not define the well enough development role of the National Park. In Slovenia, activities have been under way to change the current law for almost 15 years. In 2003, a group of members of the National Assembly first proposed a new law on the Triglav National Park submitted a parliamentary procedure. Two public hearings were carried out on the proposed law, but no law was adopted during the term of office of the National Assembly, as stated in the mandate 2000-2004. In the new mandate of the National Assembly for the period 2004-2008, the law was resubmitted for consideration, but even then the proposal for the Law on the Triglav National Park was not adopted. The solutions in the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park are prepared on the basis of the broadest possible consensus that could be reached at this time. This is a consensus between the possibilities of development and the protection and protection of this area. In our view, the proposed legal solutions are still an acceptable compromise between the professional and nature-friendly backgrounds and the development needs of the local population, taking into account the principle of sustainable development. These solutions are also complemented by a few minor changes in the definition of national park development tasks in the composition of the public institution's council and its headquarters, ensuring that development projects are coordinated, with the objectives of the national park and with some minor changes of editorial nature. The president of the Committee on Environment and Space has already said that, in a two-month public hearing on the content of the bill, there will be plenty of room for discussion and the proposed solutions will certainly be the subject of public re-examination once all interests, both public and private, public and local, and professional, are re-examined. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should be supported and allow for a two-month public hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor, on behalf of the delegation of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Triglav National Park is one of the oldest European parks. The first insurance policy dates back to 1924. It is also a national park in Slovenia and is therefore considered a symbol of Slovenia. Its objectives are to protect the nature and preserve the cultural landscape, to preserve exceptional natural and cultural values, to protect indigenous, rare and endangered plant and animal species, natural ecosystems. It also takes care of the appropriate development in the park towards the sustainable development of traditional industries, especially agriculture, forestry and tourism, and the fulfilment of the relevant material and other conditions for the life and work of the population here. On the other hand, the park provides an experience of the park in different ways. Directed by information centres, information points, information boards, park routes, guided excursions, biological workshops and so on. It also provides research through work in various areas within the framework of project tasks. All these data and results obtained shall be used for the preparation of professional bases and guidance for further work. In addition, the park also carries out educational and educational work, the preparation of publications, planned communication with the public, the design and implementation of various educational programmes and everything else. The park also carries out its mission as a manager. Professional and implementing support for nature conservation and park development decisions and opens up a space for work between different stakeholders and activities in the protected area. Good governance enables the objectives of the park to be achieved and is an example of managing and properly managing other protected areas as well as outside them. An important part of the task is to participate in the preparation of a new proposal for the Triglav National Park Act or to participate in the procedure for the adoption of new legislation. The existing Triglav National Park Act, adopted in 1981, no longer allows for the quality of all these tasks, since it is largely inconsistent with other legislation governing different areas. It is also inconsistent with the protection and development directives in park areas that are not included in the existing law. The government has submitted a proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park to the legislative procedure. The text of the new law is appropriate for consideration in the National Assembly. In accordance with the Nature Conservation Act, the National Assembly, as the founder of the National Park, is obliged to inform the public of the content of the new law prior to the adoption of the Insurance Act. The public presentation shall be carried out by public hearing and public disclosure with appropriate textual and cartographic documentation. Public presentation and decommissioning must take place in local communities which are dealt with by law. I believe that, following the preliminary procedure and the comments and additions received, we will be able to deal with the proposed law more easily and more qualitatively in the procedure in the National Assembly. It is the desire of all of us to obtain a quality and operational law that is consistent with all users. We will therefore support the proposal for a decision on the public presentation of the Triglav National Park Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Zares Group supports the decision, the proposal for a decision on the public presentation of the proposal for a law on Triglav National Park, the only national park in Slovenia. The law is of paramount importance and will also need to be addressed with appropriate attention and expertise. That is why we believe that it is essential to take into account the assessments and criticisms that come from the professional and interested public. Public presentation and the resulting public debate, which is a legal commitment, are also essential in order to strengthen public awareness, professions and policies about the importance not only of the Triglav National Park, but of the entire natural cultural heritage in Slovenia, which is under pressure, increasingly under pressure not only of consistent and sustainable development. We therefore expect that the example of this public debate and the public debate, as well as the relevant law on Triglav National Park, will pave the way for similar approaches and legal solutions for other pearls of our natural heritage, for example for Park Škocjanski Caves, or for increasingly endangered wetlands, such as salts along our coast. The Group of Members will indeed support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the conclusion that the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act is put into public presentation and we hope that the opinion of those who are connected to the Triglav National Park will be obtained as part of this presentation. While their opinions have already been given by various NGOs and environmental movements, which largely oppose such a bill, we Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that it is difficult to find the right balance between protecting the nature and the needs of the living inhabitants there. Finally, it is also necessary to ensure that the legal solutions do not hinder the development of local communities, of course while at the same time caring for nature. Therefore, the proposed law within the framework of the Parliamentary Group or the Slovenian People's Party will be well studied so that we can propose any changes and improvements later. In the SLS, we advocate a cohesive regulation of space, which represents a coordinated treatment of living and non-living nature, natural goods and national heritage in space. We believe that we can be justifiably proud of the beauty of Slovenia and therefore support all natural agriculture, forestry and fisheries. In our view, the protected areas need to be aligned with European guidelines. However, those areas which are environmentally sensitive should be particularly protected. The Triglav National Park Act, which has been emerging for a long time, is expected, in addition to adapting to the social political situation, to bring about the modernisation and upgrading of legal solutions and the establishment of control and protection regimes that will at the same time protect natural values and preserve biodiversity. As I have already mentioned, we will pay particular attention to whether the proposal of the law provides or allows for the development and sustainability of the people living in the park, allowing the visitors of the park to enjoy natural and cultural values, of course at the same time caring for the living and inanimate nature of the park. We are confident that all this can be combined in suitable and viable marriage solutions that will ensure a legal balance between the needs of the inhabitants and the environment of the Triglav National Park and its living animals and plants. We will therefore support the proposed decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. However, we hope for a proper and broad public presentation and a good and reasoned public debate, and, of course, also to take account of the people's proposal, especially the people of this area, who themselves know the situation within the Triglav National Park and can thus be an important source of information for real and concrete solutions in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The novel of the Triglav National Park Act in our country, and especially the inhabitants of the Triglav National Park, we were looking forward to it. Each with his own expectations, fears, and, of course, interests as to what the novelty will bring. Some would like to step in with the development of tourism, others would like to preserve untouched nature, etc. We need to be aware that any text would be harmful to someone, lacking, and to others quality, professional, and similar. In short, it is impossible to draw up such a text of the law that would correspond to all interested groups. However, it is essential that such an extensive and content-rich law be brought into line with all stakeholders, namely, those of nature-protection organisations, the local population, the professional and lay-off public, the relevant services. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a decision to make a public presentation of the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park. In a two-month public hearing on the content of the bill to be chaired by the National Assembly as the founder of the protected area, the proposed solutions will be re-considered to the public in order to meet all interests, both public and private, state and local, professional and laity. We see the proposal for legislation in the DeSUS Group as an acceptable compromise between the professional nature protection centres and the needs for the development of the local population, taking into account the principles of sustainable development. We also estimate that this proposal preserves the initial purpose of the Triglav National Park Act, namely the preservation of exceptional natural and cultural values, nature in all its recognized qualities, the preservation and development of cultural landscapes, ensuring that, with natural values and values, the further development of agriculture and forestry, development and material and other working conditions for the lives and work of the people in the central part of the Julian Alps, and the enjoyment of natural and cultural values and recreation in nature, are coordinated. Since the National Park was established in 1981, it is necessary to regulate its protection and management so that the National Park will be an area where the active protection of nature will primarily preserve all the nature protection qualities of this area. At the same time, it must ensure the protection of cultural heritage and maintain a quality landscape while at the same time enabling and promoting the sustainable development of the local population. It must also allow for a high-quality area to be visited and experienced. The National Park is also an area of exceptional quality of landscape, which must be given special attention, and given that the landscape in Slovenia does not have systemic protection, it is properly regulated. In the National Park there are many units of cultural heritage and cultural monuments that need special attention and therefore special care must be regulated by law for their preservation, in accordance with the system of protection of cultural heritage in the Slovenian legal order. Those who live in the Triglav National Park area are particularly closely monitored by the drafting of a law that will in the future depend heavily on our lives. We would like to have the opportunity to co-decision on the future of the Triglav National Park and consequently to have a quality life. At the same time, we hope that the proposal of the law will oblige representatives of the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park to work closely with local communities and to listen to us who live in this area and face in our daily lives the constraints brought by the status of the National Park, but not to those who go to occasional naturekeepers and dictate our will to live and work in the National Park, while they live in the heart of Ljubljana and do not imagine in various ways what our life looks like in the Triglav National Park. Finally, let me reiterate that the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the Proposal for a Decision on the Public Presentation of the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Dear Mr. Vice President, your honors are here! The Triglav National Park is one of the best preserved highland areas in Slovenia. I believe we all know why we are sensitive to this beautiful nature, which is one of the oldest and most beautiful national parks in Europe. He maintained himself in all his beauty of the century, even thanks to the living people there, who have always had a friendly relationship with nature and a sense of cohabitation. As this friendly attitude toward nature is growing, and the greed of arrivals is increasing, it is necessary to write a marriage law to keep the environment in the way it is today for centuries to come. The Triglav Park was secured by the 1981 law, which does not comply with the current legal order and does not meet the expected objectives. Everyone was constantly aware that the law needed to be amended, but it was awaiting the adoption of a system law on nature conservation, which was adopted in 1999. Two years later, the law was amended with minor corrections, but no major renovations were made. He was novelized only to this extent to prevent interference with nature, which turned out to be bad, as some of the electorates, despite the law, bypassed the rules and achieved their own goals. Despite the efforts made by the Group of Members to bring about a thorough overhaul by 2004, this has not happened. Even later, between 2004 and 2008, the law did not see the expected objective, but was rejected in the National Assembly. As we see, you wanted to adopt the amended law, and as many as two different options that were in the government from 2000 to 2008, none succeeded. Now history repeats itself. The solutions drawn up by the Special Transitional Commission, which included all possible experts from various fields, and all possible ministries with all the expertise available, prominent representatives of the local public concerned, representatives of the NGO coalition, could also be listed. The law was prepared on the basis of the professional materials prepared by the expert commission, but not good enough, because it is not enough to go on as it was designed to go to the debate. It is clear that these are other times again, for all the efforts that were made and the money was too little, so that now the story will repeat itself. I do not believe that the conclusions will be quite different, only from other political options. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that so much political wisdom will finally be formed and that this law will come to the table of Members and be acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings to Minister Erjavac. I must say that we are in the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at this point and are pleased with this law. For after 1981, of course, it is time, because things in life have changed a lot, to finally put a pinnacle on the i and to regulate the law in a way similar to that of the parks at home and in the world today. Surely it is a law that cannot be spoken of and decided solely by politics. It is a law that must be in the interest and benefit of all Slovenes and Slovenes, and how much more must be taken care of in this law in order, of course, to make it possible for a decent life, survival and the development of the locals who are in paradise under Triglav at home. Therefore, in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, a public debate that will allow us to face, bring together various opinions, proposals and choose the best compromise from them, we also support and I am confident that the law, which is already a good basis for further decision, will be further upgraded, upgraded and improved in the coming months, so that we will be proud of the story and the solutions it brings. Surely our only national park needs a new legal arrangement, for after 30 years it no longer corresponds to social and environmental circumstances. The new law had been born for almost 15 years, and it had already been in parliamentary procedure three times, including with unacceptable solutions. There is always a brief contact at the time of adoption and consideration, on the one hand between the interests of the State on the other hand, the professional services, the local communities and naturalists and non-governmental organisations. We are now in a position to be in a position to be able to accept the law as soon as possible, for any further delay or insistence on solutions that have long been overtaken by time does not, of course, allow us progress and development. We think, however, because it is often heard in public that no one is really satisfied with this law, but that it is a good compromise on which we can build a story. Because the existing bill, in our view, represents an acceptable compromise between the interests of local people and municipalities and between protection requirements and sustainable development. It is also important to listen to communications from non-governmental organisations in the field of environment and nature, which have also highlighted their critical views on the draft law in a letter sent to the public and also addressed to the Members and the National Assembly. However, another must be said in the same breath. In no way do we want the Triglav National Park area to become a reservation where visitors from home and around the world would go to admire what is happening there and what is happening. In addition to the natural values that are outstanding there, of course, they are essential for the development and successful upgrading of this story to the locals. If there were no local population without farming, the Triglav National Park would not be in as good a condition as it is now, and of course we can protect it. Of course, it is also commendable in the bill to mention the cultural heritage of the park. It seems to us that the powers of the park administration have been increased, which has many times been bound by its hands and wrong powers. The local communities will certainly also attach greater opportunities for drawing on development funds and cooperation with civil society is better defined and set up - not as a right, but as a duty, but as an obligation. What will give the possibility that certain dilemmas and problems that will eventually come to pass will be settled in the opposite direction. However, I must mention a few dilemmas here, which will certainly be clarified in the context of a public presentation in the National Assembly. For example, one of these is that the park is divided into three protected areas, with the change in the boundary of the other area somewhat unclear, as this second area can pass both to the first zone and to the third area of the park, and, of course, the protection within these areas is quite different. We also see some problems by demarcating the first and second regions. And the expert explanations why this distinction is made as now presented in the bill do not give us all the answers. It is incomprehensible why, for example, all the shocks of the Alpine valleys are excluded from the first protection zone, which means a major fragmentation of the central area. The division of space, however, is one of the worst threats to natural habitats and the preservation of a wide variety of biodiversity. It is also explained by the law that only 37.5% of the area is in the first protection zone. If we add another area to this, we get a total of 74.5%, which in practice means that we are running out of half a percent to reach the planned 75% of the central area, which by international classification means the national park. In our opinion, the draft law does not fully address the problems of existing black constructions, because there is a lack of precise specific guidelines to prevent new black constructions, especially the obligations to demolish those black constructions that have not been legalised so far or have tried to legalise them in accordance with legislation. We believe that in the transitional provisions we could also write down the deadlines by which these legalisations or, on the contrary, the disruptions will be carried out and that a legal situation will be established, similar to that of the local communities in Triglav National Park, which is referred to in Article 11 of the Law, should have an advantage in the Triglav National Park, or some treatment, that what is legalized to legalise, which of course does not belong in the park and distorts it, to eliminate in the least harmful and painful way. In our opinion, special attention should also be paid to Lake Bohinj, which is a natural value of national importance and an important Slovenian tourist area with many different interests and developmental aspirations, in order to address this with a national spatial plan similar to that of this country, and this spatial plan would include Lake Bohinj with the coast, and from Ribce's laz to Ukance, including a weekend area, especially since Ukranz is now moving from the central area of the park to the third area of the TNP. The law also lacks the obligation to rehabilitate all high-mountain facilities that pollute water. These are, for example, mountain huts, mountain buildings, and it is particularly important to stress that the bill places great emphasis on sustainable development and, consequently, on development opportunities, on people living and living in the park area. A lot of debate will certainly also be given to the placement of large sports-recreational facilities such as the Biathlon Centre at Pokluka, mountain jumpers with all their history and perspective, as well as the Vogel ski centre. I have to say, a set of circumstances must have made our work easier. At Pokluka in this year we were able to build, open and turn over a model biathlon center, which is a model, modern facility, while at the same time the park around it in no way makes it worse and spoils. Those who have looked at the solutions can see that, of course, public lighting is arranged there as it is necessary to have their cleaning device, recycling water to burn and heat on biomass, which of course is grown in ring forests. I think it is with this biathlon centre that we are getting a good model of how to regulate Planica, how to arrange Vogel as a ski centre, and how to say clearly and loudly that in the TNP area we have these three important national sites and that we continue for 4, 5, or 6, as some who fear development, that we do not think about it, and that once the boundaries of this facility stop, the environment remains intact, as we have had from our predecessors for centuries. I must say that there is probably no such park without people and life, and there will be no such park, just as there will be no good law without a broad public debate, which we attach to help find the best solutions in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pecan also has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief. The Group of Social Democrats supports the decision to open a public hearing on the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park, not only in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act, but also with the Aarhus Convention, as it provides a broad opportunity to participate in the drafting, finalization of the law, to the widest possible number of stakeholders. We can only wish that this public hearing would lead to such a law that will somehow harmonise the interests of the people and the country, not the state within the meaning of the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, but the countries as communities of all of us, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, which we want to have a national park arranged in such a manner and also managed to ensure, firstly, the preservation of biodiversity, which is in fact something exceptional throughout the European space, and at the same time that this biodiversity will remain also to our descendants and to our craftsmen. That is why, of course, we can understand the comments and concerns of the coalition of NGOs for Triglav National Park and in a number of their comments we join their position, but certainly it would not be wise to propose, as the coalition of NGOs, that the legislative process on Triglav National Park should be fully halted and returned to the beginning, but that we should make use of the time available to us and correct it, to complement, to satisfy the starting points set by the international community to national parks, at the same time, of course, that the inhabitants will have an interest that the area of Triglav National Park will not only be preserved, but that it will also be richer from day to day, and that they will not only overcome the pains and problems of life in the national park themselves, but that they will also have something to do and that they will be richer and, in particular, that they will all of which they want to live in the less today. Therefore, of course, the Group of the Social Democrats will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're done with the presentation. the position of the Group of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Mr. Miran Györek, Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, Mr. Happy Friend, Mr. Silven Majhenič, Mr. Daniel Krivec - do you give up, perhaps the representative of the Government would like a word? No, no, no. Proposer? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 38.A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We move on to 3.8.A. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL FOR DISARMAMENT OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND SPACE OF CARL VICTOR ERJAVC. Mr. Godec, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Honourable President, Honourable Members, Honourable Minister, Honourable President of the Government. Pursuant to Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the DeSUS Group proposes that the debate and decision on the 38th agenda item of the 13th Regular Meeting of the National Assembly be postponed to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. As a reason, I cite the two constitutionally controversial provisions of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which were the basis for the action of both the President of the Court of Auditors and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of these constitutionally controversial provisions and to avoid any further illegal action by the representatives of the State authorities, the Group of Members of the National Assembly, whose signatures we have already gathered, or the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavec, who is in the legal interest that this possible unconstitutionality should be abolished, will submit to the Constitutional Court an initiative to initiate proceedings to assess the constitutionality or legality of the disputed provisions of the Law on the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you. In accordance with Article 74, the Head of the DeSUS Group, Mr Godec, proposed that this point be postponed to one of the next meetings to discuss and decide - or decide on this matter. Of course, such a proposal is commercially possible and permissible. In this regard, in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 10, this proposal may be taken by the Government if it is not a candidate for this matter, the Government and the parliamentary groups are called. They want parliamentary groups - wants the government to take a position on this proposal? They want MPs? First of all, Mr Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Excuse me? Look, I'm gonna lead the session, don't worry, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups will get a chance to explain. Mr Tanko has come forward, please, if you'd like to present your position on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I think it would be right for us to open up a circle, so that Members' groups - those who just want - will sign up for argument, to explain their explanation. I don't think this procedure you just picked up is correct because they're waiting for someone to say anything. We will support the proposal of the DeSUS Group because we believe that the argument put forward by the President of the Government is in fact based on reasons that do not fully stand. That the shadow of this decision by the Court of Auditors, that the shadow was also doubtful to the President of the Government, also shows his statements when he publicly stated that he was inclined to place this article in the Court of Auditors Act, which is the basis for such an appeal to the President of the Government, in a constitutional judgment. Unfortunately, the President of the Government did not decide on this procedure, although we believe that he would be very correct and justified. However, since the President of the Government has not taken advantage of this public forecast, I propose that we give the opportunity to those who have a legal interest in this process, that is to say, Members of the National Assembly, that the point should be suspended, and therefore we support it, and that, in the meantime, that this initiative is decided on by the Constitutional Court to decide whether the call of the Court of Auditors to the President of the Government is in accordance with the Constitution or not. While I know that the President of the Government has other options for action, the President of the Government, in his argument for a discharge, has fully relied on the Court of Auditors' decision, which he himself expresses, expresses his public concerns that they are constitutionally correct, that they are in conformity with the Constitution. I propose that we support the DeSUS Group's procedural proposal to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] carry out an assessment of the constitutionality of this Article of the Law on the Court of Auditors and then at one of the following meetings, when this shadow of doubt is lifted, then continue the discharge procedure on this legal basis, or the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Pahor, will seek another legal basis in order to get rid of an unloved coalition partner who is unloved in [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to his ministerial team. [[...]] I suggest you support this proposal. Our Group of Members will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group he'd like? Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the SNS Group, we will oppose the proposal tabled by the DeSUS Group. We judge that the matter must be resolved as soon as possible, and even when I spoke to Mr Erjavac ten days ago, he agreed that this should be done as soon as possible and that it should be resolved. All right! And we insist on these starting points today. I think that this matter should be settled after all, but if DeSUS does not have the right candidate, I think Mr Zanoškar is a suitable candidate. For if he takes over the Minister's post, he may request the Prime Minister to arrange, in return, documentation for the construction of the motorway to Koroška, to Slovenj Gradac, to Dravograd, and then say, if within six months, Mr Prime Minister, you will not start with the works, and I resign and then Mr Zanoškar may resign. This would do something good for Koroška and Slovenia at all. I don't mean to give up six months from now, but maybe we should start working the road. In short, I think it makes sense to support this resolution by Mr Erjavac, so that the matter cannot be tolerated. And, as I am aware, yesterday Mr Erjavec spoke to the Prime Minister for as long as he could not find any consensus, despite the fact that the Prime Minister also gave interesting and tempting offers to anyone except for Mr Erjavac. Therefore, I do not think it makes sense to postpone this item of the agenda and the Slovenian National Party will vote against the proposal to move the debate to one of the other meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, given that we believe in the Group of Members that the President of the Government has used the call of the Court of Auditors in particular and has proposed the discharge of Minister Karl Erjavac, the reasons are probably elsewhere or elsewhere, but given that these reasons themselves are written in explanation of the proposal, and that there will be no shadow of doubt in such a proposal, in the action that the State Assembly is expected to take or vote in favour of the Minister's discharge, we will therefore support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their proposal? Does the motioner, in addition, the president of the government? He doesn't want anyone. That is why we are moving on to a decision, so we are voting on the proposal of the DeSUS Group of Members that the 38th item should be moved to one of the next meetings to discuss and decide on this matter. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Please, Mr. Godec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	The DeSUS Group, pursuant to Article 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall request the suspension of the 38.a item of agenda of the 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly, for the purpose of consultation in the parliamentary group. Since this is a delicate request, we suggest that the meeting be suspended in 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	Your request, your proposal is pleasurable. We'll continue the meeting at 2:15. Excuse me? No decision! Excuse me? He demanded a break and this break - no decision. "The individual parliamentary group may require such interruption only once at a specific point in the agenda. Such interruption may take up to 45 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise on a reasoned proposal from the Head of the Group." Each parliamentary group shall have the right to a break at one point and shall normally take advantage of it before the vote. The DeSUS delegation wanted this immediately and, of course, I have to agree with them in the rules of procedure. The meeting will continue at 2:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, we continue on the 38th item of the agenda. To begin with, I may have agreed a little too quickly with the leader of the parliamentary group, because the proposal for an interruption is usually made under Article 33, paragraph two, before the decision is taken. I myself have assessed that the Group of Members needs such an interruption and that it could therefore be considered that this interruption could also be granted under Article 73 and the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the broken point. On 19 January 2010, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Boruta Pahor, proposed that Karl Viktor Erjavac be dismissed as Minister of Environment and Space. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	Allow me, for a brief moment, to hold perhaps for the end of this debate, to justify my proposal for the discharge of the Minister for Environment and Space. First of all, there will be no misunderstandings. I am playing the role of Prime Minister, a difficult political role at a time when Slovenia is doing its best, I hope that, with the help of all others, the government is trying to pull itself out of the crisis as a winner. It requires a cohesive government, a government that does not deal with itself, but deals with the problems of this country. That's the point! So that we can continue to do as we have done so far, so that we can focus entirely on the problems of this country and solve them so that we do not deal with matters that distract ministers, or the entire ministerial assembly, or the entire political assembly from these issues, it is right to judge when there are open issues that cause such tensions, right and wrong. In this sense, after receiving the call from the Court of Auditors, I decided to take it as a reference for the discharge of the Minister of Environment. Let me put it this way. Maybe it won't be interesting. When the Court of Auditors in 2007 called on Prime Minister Janez Janša to discharge the Minister of Environment, the President of DeSUS Karl Erjavec, from Prime Minister Janez Janša, expected him to respect the Constitution and the law in connection with the invitation of the Court of Auditors to dismiss Minister Janez Podobnik for irregularities at the Ministry of the Environment. And a colleague and friend Karl Erjavec was then a minister and a lawyer and is a minister and a lawyer two years later. And as he said, "This would be important in terms of legal practice and the consolidation of the rule of law." That's not my word. That is the word of my colleague or Minister Erjavac. I say this because I felt that our common opinion was that it was right to respect the call of the Court of Auditors, and I myself, as my colleague Tanko mentioned, expressed doubts whether the call itself was sufficient for the President of the Government, without having to judge or not, to call on the Council of State to consider his proposal for a discharge. I, of course, asked the Government's legal service about this, I received an answer that the non-conformity of the law with the constitution is not that it is possible to interpret that the Prime Minister has some discretion to judge whether he respects the Court of Auditors' call or not. But now I have to say here without hair on my tongue that with everything that has happened at this time, mine, I will say a prior rejection or an attempt to substantiate that the Ministry of the Environment is doing well after the Court of Auditors has asked me to resolve Karl Erjavac so that this would not be accepted in public. In public, which expects us to deal with our problems of our society, our countries, not our political careers. And so I decided to leave in this rather puzzling situation other reasons which could be cited by someone else for the discharge of Minister Erjavac, and to rely on the call of the Court of Auditors to determine the irregularities that have not been resolved at the Ministry of Environment and Space, knowing that someone may decide that the Constitutional Court will also require an assessment of whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. So, relying on the opinion of the legal service I have, I have decided that without any great suspicion that I can act contrary to the Constitution, I respect the Law on the Court of Auditors and accept the call for the discharge of Minister Erjavce. Something was said here about two things that I would like to say before the end. First, on the cooperation between me and Minister Erjavac. When I was concluding the coalition, I knew it was the Prime Minister of the former government. However, I have great respect for Minister Karl Erjavac, personally and politically. It took me a long time to make a cooperation agreement with him at the time. And Minister Erjavec will probably say that when problems were coming that concerned the environment, on the agenda of our conversation, I always looked with great patience and affection at how he would try to solve this problem as a minister. So much for our relationship. And I am expressing here, as Prime Minister of the Government, some hope that, as President of the DeSUS party, my good co-worker will continue to be in the coalition, that we will be able to lead the government as we have imagined, through difficult, harsh, difficult times, but successfully enough that we will be able to conclude this mandate together. The role of the Court of Auditors and Mr Soltes - I think this needs to be cleared up immediately. So, I've never invited people who perform functions that I think are politically untouchable, if that's how you want them to exchange opinions with me in any way, if they think they're under any pressure. Whenever you ask anyone, from the Attorney General to the guardians, offices or other similar institutions, I always ask if you understand this call as an intervention in your professional autonomy. And if they make sure I don't, this call goes forward. In that case, it wasn't my call at all, but I received an invitation from Mr. Soltes to come to me. And I accepted that invitation - why not? The last time I saw the President of the Competition Protection Office, why would he reject his invitations? Come on, let's talk, but I don't influence their decisions. And I'm asking you to know this and take into account what I just said so it wouldn't go on. I did not influence this decision, and others have taken it and are responsible for it. Here is the Law on the Court of Auditors, which gives the President of the Court of Auditors the opportunity to call on the President of the Government. Perhaps the Law on the Court of Auditors should be looked at more than the constitutionality of this law in terms of constitutional conflict. Where is the level of responsibility to which the President of the Court may call? Because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will always - be careful! - in conflict, as was the previous President of the Government, or in an awkward situation, when the President of the Government, if I can be very clear and frank, I had to judge whether the Minister had done any professional work well or not. How can the President of the Government of 18 areas know so well that he can finally determine whether the Court of Auditors is right or wrong? The Court of Auditors is, however, an instrument of the rule of law. And if I ignored him, I would be addressed with legitimate criticism that, after all the others and even after this call, I am not prepared to listen to certain things that are the subject of criticism. And then I made up my mind. While some things need to be clarified, obviously, but I think that - now using all my available time - I have said everything that was necessary. Minister Erjavac and I have worked well together. The environment is an extremely demanding resource, and I think a specialist needs more than a transaction policy. I expect that Minister Erjavac, who will be President of DeSUS from now on, will also work well as a colleague in the coalition to be able to carry out the tasks ahead of him well. I relied on the Court of Auditors' decision, thinking that it was right to respect the institution of the rule of law 'par exellation'. If we consider that this call, which is contained in this law, is too much, then perhaps I suggest that the National Assembly consider amending the law. I ask the National Assembly to follow my proposal and then to appoint a new Minister or Minister of the Environment as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Dear Members. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. The Honourable President of the Government. It is true that we have worked well together and we have also counted in the future that we will work well together, because politics must not rule out, and politics must unite us to work for the well-being of people. The proposal for my resolution is presented on the initiative of the Court of Auditors, which the President of the Government at the moment said is an institution of the rule of law 'par exellation'. I also have always understood that the Court of Auditors is actually such an institution of the rule of law "par exellation" and I will return to the period of the previous government when such an invitation was given to the former Minister of the Environment, Mr Janez Podobnik. And then I said, in fact, every word that it would be right for the Prime Minister, then the Government, Janez Janša, to initiate proceedings in the National Assembly and to determine whether the violations committed by Minister Podobnik are such a nature that they require political responsibility and, at the same time, that the Court of Auditors also decides whether the Court of Auditors is indeed the body of the rule of law, or whether it does not cross its borders, or whether it does not interpret the Law on the Court of Auditors too widely and puts itself in the position of the President of the Government, as the body of the rule of law, as the "sui generis" body which is over the President of the Government. At the time, I was very much in favour of Mr Sponik in order to consolidate the rule of law in order to consolidate the principle of constitutionality and legality. That it is going into this procedure and that the National Assembly determine where the limits of the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors are. On 5 January, when we had a press conference - the President of the Government - you know well that we agreed quickly, went to a press conference quickly - and said that there should be a proposal for a discharge in the National Assembly and that we would check to see if there was a need for a constitutional judgment on the role of the Court of Auditors. I'm sorry today that this second step was not taken by you. Because then and today, you would understand that you are one of the guardians of the rule of law. I also expect the President of the National Assembly to be the guardian of the rule of law. And I also expect you, Members of Parliament and Members, to be guardians of the rule of law. I don't believe we can contradict the opinion given by Dr. Ude, a high-ranking, respectable, former constitutional judge. He was a nine-year Constitutional Judge from 1993 to 2002. I had to hire the best lawyers, not only in this matter of the Court of Auditors, this call, which is constitutionally disputed, but also because of the indictment before the District Court, where I was supposed to be tried by a judge as an individual - usually in the District Court of Justice, there is a case of barbaric beatings, such marginal crimes. From this Patria affair, which I've been seeing all along, the last thing that's left to do is to do some unserious work at work, and I'm not even in criminal proceedings! Because the judge has not yet tried the defendant's proposal, where the maximum sentence of one year is threatened. It was unusual at the time that I had been abroad for a week and that this indictment had gone public. Probably one of the judicial authorities did it. I don't want to press charges against the State's Attorney's Office, not the District Court, but it's unusual that this went public. It is unusual that the final seizure in Karl Erjavec and Patria, where I was told for three years that I had received bribes, that I was corrupt, that in the end a special prosecutor's group for organised crime, the most qualified prosecutor's group, found an unserious job, allegedly an unserious job at work. Then the next thing happened. I had already announced that this indictment was only a first step in order to follow the next steps, and in fact it happened: the illegal sale of the capital share. However, I have a lawsuit against the mayor from Kočev, where he claims that we have to sell the capital share. At the time, I condemned the notary who was in charge of the notary record and who was a person of public confidence that she had not done her job well. Believe me, with hundreds and 200 signatures a day, I did not go to check this particular procedure because I was of the opinion if it was a notary that they had certainly done the procedure as it was. And in fact, after I asked my colleagues again, lawyers, unfortunately I have colleagues, my peers, 50-year-olds who are concerned about what is going on in this country who are concerned about the rule of law. They said, "Carl, let us review the matter!" And what did they find? The sale was legal. That's exactly what the notary says. As a result, I was able to make a public apology to her that I had not received a civil suit with a claim for compensation. Some laughed when I said that he might even be socially at risk. I don't know what kind of compensation would be. I did her serious damage when I questioned her professionalism, and at the same time, I was threatened with an indictment or a private criminal complaint for slander. And then the next day, the Court of Auditors is calling for my release. It is unusual, however, that in December I was also given warnings by the President of the Government that I should carefully review all audits, that information is that something is going on and that I should look into matters. I examined, but unfortunately, our auditor found nothing suspicious, and I was in good faith that there would be no proceedings by the Court of Auditors. Of course, even at the point of thought, it did not occur to me that I could be responsible for things from 2005/2007 and that I must, not within three months, but within one month, save what we were unable to solve in 20 years. As you know, we made a response report on November 11th, and we also proposed regulations, and the Court of Auditors said they were not good. But as a minister, as a politician, I have no right to get involved. The profession has to tell. And if the profession can't agree, I can't wait any longer than to do everything I can to get the profession to find the right solutions as soon as possible. Thus, a response report was submitted on 11 November, and already in the first half of December, it was announced that there would probably be an appeal for my resolution. It also bothers me that we have different criteria. Prime Minister, you were talking about new legal standards. I'm the first to set new legal standards, because what's going on is not legal standards! Especially not for the rule of law, for a country that respects constitutionality and legality. That reminds me of something completely different. And you know very well that the auditors have also been to any other minister or minister and that they have announced an appeal for discharge, but it has not been carried out. You will be able to figure out for yourself why, how, and how. However, if I return to this call from the Court of Auditors. Today, MEPs and Members and the President of the National Assembly, who is the first guardian of constitutionality and legality in this high assembly, in this temple where you are elected from the people who expect you to respect constitutionality, legality. Where people expect you to protect the rule of law. Are you able to continue this procedure? Are you able to vote today when one of the most prominent professors who taught me constitutional law, Dr. Loize Uda, who was a nine-year constitutional judge, sees unconstitutionality, sees constitutionally controversial proceedings? I can also tell you what he's into. With regard to the provision of the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which expressly excludes any judicial protection against acts of the Court of Auditors. This is contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution. Then the following point where there is a constitutional dispute: as regards the provision of Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which gives the President of the Court of Auditors the competence to provide, in full arbitration, the work programme of the Court of Auditors and thus the auditors. What the former Constitutional Judge wishes to say: that the work programme is adopted by the President of the Court of Auditors, not by the Senate of the Court of Auditors! And the definitions in the Law on the Court of Auditors are only political, where the law says that five proposals are made by the National Assembly, two oppositions, two competent authorities and a commission and one coalition - a completely political criterion. And the law gives the President of the Court of Auditors the basis for politicisation. I don't think it's a coincidence that I was first considered as Minister of Environment and Space and that my discharge is required after it is known that our Member Matjaž Zanoskar could be a candidate for Minister of Environment - is this a coincidence? Is that a coincidence? Even though the audit was done a long time ago. But why come at this very moment with a reservation? Not to mention the mayor, Mr Urh, what is going on in the Bohinj Congregation. Are these really just coincidences? Also with regard to the provisions of Article 29, paragraph 5, paragraph 6 and 1, which does not provide for any criteria for determining a serious breach of the obligation to operate and thereby issuing an appeal for the discharge of the responsible person. Those criteria shall be determined by the President of the Court of Auditors, at the discretion of the President of the Court of Auditors. I think it is such a constitutional issue that if the National Assembly goes to a vote without a constitutional opinion of this, I think you have violated the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of the rule of law. It's not that I'm fighting for the minister's office so I don't get it wrong. At the Ministry, you can make sure the boxes are ready. I did my job faithfully, honestly. You know, Prime Minister, there was no problem with me, and everyone was predicting, don't take Karl Erjavc to the government, because you're going to have serious problems, he's going to stumble you all the time. And you know that we've been covering other ministers; you know that there have been interpellations and we've properly supported this coalition because the coalition is a partnership, the coalition is a family. We're there to ensure people's well-being. I also have to tell you, in September 2008, you also know that I did not force the government to be one of the possibilities of not being a member of the government, but you insisted that you wanted all four presidents or the other three coalition partners in the government, so that we could coordinate better so that we could work easier. I really don't understand why this resolution, I don't even know what it is. An indictment for not being in criminal proceedings? An illegal sale that turned out to be legal? A constitutionally contested call from the Court of Auditors? But you'd understand if you said to me, "Listen, Karel, I don't trust you, we can't cooperate, and I'm using my mandate to get rid of you." That would be fair to me, even fair to my family, even to my mother, who unfortunately waits for surgery and doesn't even know if she would go because she sees what's going on in the last month, what the media is doing to me. I'll finish at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, because I was addressed. The legal basis for the draft resolution we received in the National Assembly is Article 13 of the Law on Government and the Constitution, Article 112, not the Law on the Court of Auditors. If we received, say, a proposal to decide on the Court of Auditors' call, such a proposal would not, of course, be considered by the Government. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for the discharge of the Minister of Environment and the premises of Karl Viktor Erjavac. Let me explain a few more things first. I would like to say that in the Group of Members we have not supported the proposal to break this point, because, according to our assessment, this would mean that the poor, anarchic situation which is already in the Ministry of Environment and Space and which would also arise in the context of such a situation as has been proposed would only make matters worse. The problems and problems at the Ministry of Environment and Space are growing, so we hope and expect that in the State Assembly, as soon as possible, we will appoint a new Minister or Minister for this area, for whom we want to be an expert and competent person with organizational knowledge and also with a affinity to the area covered or covered by it. Let me say here that the explanation given both in writing and today by the oral President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, is, in our opinion, such that he deserves serious thought. In doing so, I would like to say that, in particular, the last paragraph, where the President of the Government says that he estimates that the actual effects of the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Space in the area of the collection and management of municipal waste are insufficient, I would like to say that we have read in the media that the consequences and damage resulting from or to be caused by unaccepted measures or by a lack of measures in this area are estimated at approximately 53 million tonnes for the budget, users and economic service providers. We also find it somewhat underestimating that such an important area as environment and space is underestimated in some way by the statements we have witnessed in the last period. Of course, poor work in this and the absence of the measures required by the Court of Auditors is a major problem in this country; a problem that concerns many local communities every day, which drive waste from one end of Slovenia to the other because the problem is not solved sufficiently. In doing so, we do not consider that it is appropriate to visa this underestimation of the problems raised in this way by the Court of Auditors. However, we are confident that today, when we support this resolution, we will act responsibly and legally, even if I answer Minister Erjavac that we will still remain guardians of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, the position will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government, Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not define ourselves for the reason stated by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the Minister of Environment and Space, since this is probably just a scene. In fact, it seems to us that the President of the Government has merely taken advantage of the Court of Auditors' call and has covered the actual reasons for the proposed discharge of the Minister. We are also not interested in coalition health, trading, divisiveness, resentment and blackmail. The political games that this coalition was engaged in at the beginning of the mandate and with which the Government and all the Slovenian public have been engaged all along the beginning of the new year have briefly exceeded all the limits of good taste. Are we a crazy circus or a parliament? Are you some serious, responsible government or are you an experiment of compatibility? How long do you plan to deal with yourself and leave the economic crisis in the background? To avoid any mistake, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that the President of the Government has all the right and also the duty to set up a team of people who trust them, whose abilities he believes and who he believes are doing well. He has every right to propose discharge for each of his ministers or minister for no particular reason and to propose a new, capable person to this place. But at the same time, we believe that it must do so quickly and reasonably, rather than burdening the days and weeks with all the politics and all the citizens. This must be done by the Government without political interference between the various individuals and institutions and then immediately devoted to addressing the problems of the whole country, not just itself. From the minister, who said, among other things, "every boy understands if a girl doesn't like him anymore," we would expect him to understand the situation and simply and simply give up, given that the Prime Minister obviously doesn't like him anymore. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also believe that there are quite a few ministers in this government that may need to be replaced. At the same time, we are aware that the Government should be fully committed to solving the economic crisis and the progress we are looking forward to this year. In the SLS Group, we are convinced that success and progress will not fall from the sky, let alone be born only by human resources exchanges. We hope this farce ends today. Any solution you have already sought to get out of this coalition crisis, we hope that the solution will be good for all Slovenians and Slovenians. For while some scoff at their potential social threats, some actually experience it daily and still feel it on their own. And these are the problems the Slovenian government should be dealing with. And I don't know how many times we're going to have to repeat in the Slovenian People's Party: deal with the problems that have plagued our country for over a year, with the failing companies, the rising unemployment, the hopelessness of more people, the impossibility of the current situation, from which, I doubt, we can be saved by an exit or exit strategy, as you call it, through current inspiration, or a stability programme, or any other measure, because you have simply waited too long. Therefore, let us cut through this Gordy knot today, and then, the respected Government and coalition, deal with the real problems and not just the imaginary ones that have become such a loving excuse for you in recent months to avoid concrete anti-crisis measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister. Dear Members and Members. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for the discharge of the Environment Minister, Mr Karl Erjavac. This is a further thought-out and planned process for the liquidation of Karl Erjavac, not only as Minister, but as President of the DeSUS party and even as a human being. It is a political construct not only of the Minister for Environment and Space, but also of the discreditation of the political party DeSUS, its members, Members of the DeSUS Group's quota. Even more, the discreditation has crossed the boundaries of one, if any, of normal political accounting. It has even moved to the immediate family members of the concerned, in particular the children of Members of the DeSUS Group, who are not and are not intended to be politically engaged in the Slovenian or other political environment. The very scenario of the attacks on Karl Erjavac is the school case of a former one-party policy in which the rule was applied - first the discreditation, then the liquidation. I can't get past the events that happened with incredible haste one after the other with the big media pump around our president. One or three days were needed for his media and political lynch, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, on the same day giving up support to our Minister Erjavac by the coalition partners SD, LDS and Zares. And the next day there's a call for a new minister. We are convinced that this is a well-prepared scenario, which is aimed only and exclusively at the political liquidation and elimination of Karl Erjavac. We are convinced that if we failed to resolve in the National Assembly, with the help of the Court of Auditors and the Slovenian media, which we estimate are the weapons in the hands of the ruling structure, we would seek and seek new and new reasons against Minister Erjavac. Whether these charges have been substantiated or not and whether or not they have been legally substantiated. We are extremely disturbed by the very call of the Court of Auditors for a discharge. The very way in which they work reminds us of the lead times when the courts were judged by a rapid procedure, without the possibility of objecting to the affected, in which case the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	The conviction of the Court of Auditors without the possibility of defending or fair trial, hearing and defending the accused proves my claim of discredit and liquidation, and we were convinced by DeSUS Members that in Slovenia since 1991 democratic norms and not a single-party unit and a swift court have been in place. It is an interesting question why the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption do not take such an effective approach and, above all, how quickly the disputed behaviour in the case of the possession of social property, and later the state property - the answer, so to speak, should I not find it. Thus, a clear summary follows from all the above. Karl Erjavec is disruptive and unacceptable to our coalition. The DeSUS Stanka is disruptive and unacceptable. The DeSUS Members are disturbing and unacceptable to this coalition. We may now understand why only a coalition troika has been discussed since the very beginning of this mandate, and sometimes there has been more to be heard about DeSUS. An extraordinary division and a low-level way, for sure! The reasons for doing so are known to those who invest their energy in the removal of Karl Erjavac, and thus, there is no doubt that this is distracting attention from the more current and life-threatening problems of the economic crisis. Or even distracting attention from the problem of solving some more problematic minister who has the support of the President of the Government and other presidents of coalition partners. We are also convinced that in a number of areas covered by individual ministries there are anomalies of a kind that are certainly more mature to remove or to be objectively responsible for the person who runs such a resort. But, no! Everyone else is untouchable because they were fair, just, and exemplary. What a farce! Let us ask Slovenians and Slovenians why for 19 years they have not believed any more Slovenian politics, but this is another story that will never be so medialized as the lynching of our President of the party of DeSUS by Mr Erjavac. Coalition partners, my call is for you to judge the validity or groundlessness of these charges and to decide on this basis. May I remind you, on the basis of the coalition agreement, that you are morally, ethically and politically committed to protecting your colleague, your coalition partner, even more, the president of the coalition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Good day to you all! We will support the replacement of Mr Karl Erjavac in our Group of Members. Perhaps the reasons given by the President of the Government are not exactly appropriate, I could certainly find better, more justified, worse, especially those that would show what Mr Erjavec has not done or what he has done wrong. But I hope this is just the beginning of a clean-up in this government. Many more ministers will have to leave, and I hope that Mr Erjavec is the first in line of those dominoes to fall later. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that Mr Erjavec does not belong to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is unfortunately somehow pushed aside, but this is one of the more important ministries. It is important to be aware that from 1992 onwards all governments have actually appointed environmental ministers for people they did not know where to put them. And when all the other ministries were sold out, they put the one who had to be the minister in the Ministry of the Environment. That's why we have such a mess in this ministry. That is why we have a complete collapse of the system at the Ministry of Environment and Space. And this collapse began in 1992 and continued until today. Mr. Erjavec should have made some sharp cuts and changed and fixed some things, but they're not. Even certain things that he should protect, such as the state interest, he did not do. If I turn only to the question of the sand digger at Ormož. Instead of practically digging sand on the route of the site, they preferred to drive it from 50 kilometers away, which means that the country had to pay for that sand there and then drive 50 kilometers here and 50 kilometers empty truck back and load the environment and all sorts of things. In view of the fact that this is a matter of environmental damage to state property or damage at the expense of the budget, one wonders why he did so. And yet it has not changed, despite the fact that Minister Lahovnik has tried several times to prove that the state is losing a lot of money and that someone is leaking this money into their private pockets. That's one of the cases. There's a lot of them. Once again, we will support this and expect from the future minister, who I hope will soon receive it, whether it be Mr Zanoškar or someone else, I hope he will do better and otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	It's a nice hello to all of us once again. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the Prime Minister and to the Minister, Mr. Erjavac! We will support the proposal for the discharge of the Minister for the Environment and the premises of Karl Erjavac at the Liberal Democracy Chamber. The President of the Government has [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	However, responsibility and the duty to elect ministers, and if it so decides, shall also have the right to propose a replacement. [[...]] We estimate that the decision of the President of the Government to propose the discharge of Minister Erjavac is correct. The exchange of Minister Erjavac is a matter of political hygiene and culture for political authorities to take responsibility for their mistakes. The Special Prosecutors' Group has tabled an indictment against the Minister and is therefore in criminal proceedings for the non-transparent purchase of Patricia's eight-wheelers. It is not random, nor irrelevant, that in this country you cannot run for any of the most important functions in Slovenia if you are in criminal proceedings. You can't be a cop, a judge, a prosecutor, a CEO, a member of the board. Do we think you're a minister, then? No, no, no. Nor can you be a minister, and this is not a matter of law, but of political responsibility in particular. In addition, Minister Erjavac is burdened by the sale of state property without the decision of the Government and the call of the Court of Auditors to the Prime Minister for the resolution of the problem of Slovenian waste. All these are, in our opinion, reasons why Mr Karl Erjavec is no longer able to work in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the discharge of the Minister is certainly a political decision, first of all, of the President of the Government who proposes, and then of the National Assembly, which decides to do so definitively. Political culture and hygiene, which are why we are today deciding on the discharge of Minister Erjavac, cannot be subject to a constitutional judgment, so we do not see any reason for the court to order the suspension of the discharge or that our decision would depend on any decision of the Constitutional Court. As a country, we are in a difficult situation because of the crisis. It is responsible and beneficial for citizens and citizens, pensioners, pensioners, workers, workers and students to focus on issues such as economic growth, employment, health reform, energy policy and the environment. However, we must not allow the interest of part of the policy to make this a second-class topic, and as a first-class theme, the forced occupation of Slovenian policy with itself. Minister Erjavec, President of the Government and the entire coalition are in a situation where the standards we follow in the coalition allow for only one option. We would like these standards to be followed with more political maturity and to put the interests of the State ahead of the individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! 112. Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that ministers shall be appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Government. In accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors must respect any public authority, body of the local community and the user of public funds to which the Court of Auditors’ opinion relates. Article 29 of the Law on the Court of Auditors provides, in its 11th paragraph, for a serious breach of the obligation of good conduct or in the event of a violation of Article 27, paragraph 8, and 9, of this Law, the Court of Auditors shall also issue an appeal for the discharge of the responsible person. It is also laid down in the same law that, in the event of that finding, it must indicate the person or several persons who are to be disposed of. An appeal for their discharge shall be issued to the authority for which it considers that it is in a position to carry out or initiate a discharge procedure. The President of the Government is evaluating, I repeat, the proposal of the President of the Government. The President of the Government therefore considers that the actual effects of the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Space in the area of collection and management of municipal waste are insufficient. Since this is an area which has a direct impact on the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it therefore proposes that the President of the Government should be dismissed by Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space. In view of the above and given the competences in this regard, the Group of Members will follow the proposal of the President of the Government and support the discharge of the Minister for Environment and Space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps you've come to realize in the coalition that the revolution has begun. However, I would point out that the President of the Government has weak support from his ministers for this proposal, which he has put forward. In fact, he sits here alone and advocates a proposal that is in that part of the explanation, which should be or should be such as the legal basis, harmonised but completely different. The explanation of the proposal is not in line. We have already said in the procedural work that the basis for the discharge on which the President of the Government relied is inappropriate, disputed, even in his own opinion, he also said at the press conference and repeatedly in his statements in public, is that he deserves an opinion in the Constitutional Court. And he also predicted that he would most likely decide on such a procedure. Well, this has not happened and it must be found here that this proposal is actually the proposal of those coalition partners that have their own seats in the Domžals. There are important decisions to be made, important decisions to be agreed upon and proposals to be made by the Government from there, which will be carried out by the President of the Government in one way or another. I would also like to point out here that the President of the Government has said that he has no choice but to make such a proposal to the Government. The Court of Auditors' proposal, the Court of Auditors' call, is that it has no choice. And I'm sure the President of the Government has at least two options. One is to propose on the basis of this calls for the discharge of the National Assembly. And he used that. The second is that it makes a written argument as to why it will not take this call into account. I'm sure the President of the Government had this option. If he went a little deeper with his counselors in his office, which he is sure to have at his disposal, probably quality people, he came to this realization. And perhaps I could also find that in this short period of time given by the Court of Auditors to Minister Erjavac for the resolution of the problem, especially since it is a matter of regulating a problem directly linked to the competences of the municipalities, we should only take into account that such short deadlines are not feasible in these proceedings. If you are interfering with any measure within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, then we must also have a minimum period of 30 days for the proposed mother to be agreed upon. Some of the lawyers, I will say, not ours, not ours, not ours, but the constitutional lawyers, including other lawyers who belong to the worldview, have given the coalition, such as Dr. Ude, Dr. Bulgarian, that the President of the Government has the choice that the President of the Government has the option, but he has not explained it. Finally, the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Igor Soltes, explained this, and he did not listen to this call from the President of the Government. However, certain matters need to be dealt with in the decisions of the Court of Auditors. I don't know how much money was involved in this case, which was judged by the Court of Auditors, maybe ten, twenty million euros, maybe five million euros in fees and similar cases. And that is probably significantly less if we estimate that some measure has not been implemented, than 200 million euros, which, say, Minister Gaspari is blocking through a public call that the government service does not implement for local self-government and regional development. Ten times certainly the difference in favour of one who has failed to implement this measure is said to be Minister Gaspari and his secretary of state. And there's no call, no conclusions, no judgment. I was also mayor, I myself had the Court of Auditors' audit for the entire budget of the municipality of Ribnica, all investments, all salaries. They only got me three mistakes at the time, I think seventeen employees in salary throughout the budget, for some change in salary. For some change, I got an opinion with reservations. If, for example, such an opinion as had been given by Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, he probably would not have survived, not professionally, not otherwise. I would like to point out this because I understand little about these matters, that even the Court of Auditors' judgements are not so impeccable, so unequivocal, but are probably too subject to the personal view of the final audit report and also requires action. Sometimes it's overlooked, sometimes it's understood, but sometimes it doesn't make sense. And on the basis of such calls, these proposals also arise. I don't know how much you have in your coalition contract that municipal waste may be per capita, but it is clear from the Government's explanation that in the Republic of Slovenia these wastes are 70 kilograms less than the average of the European Union. But it is true that in the wrong way these municipal wastes may not be collected, sorted, processed, or reused for further production and so on. However, this problem of environmental regulation, as far as municipal waste management is concerned, lasts as long as we have this ministry. Since the President of the National Assembly was Minister of the Environment and beyond. And all of these solutions, which probably also concern the pre-accession process, because certain things were negotiated at the time, and the ministers who were involved at the time probably also unrealistically defined deadlines assessed certain procedures, certain costs and so on. This is an area that has been extremely neglected. Unfortunately, because I also know this area, I have been the mayor for quite some time since 1995, two mandates, and I know how much work has been done in these areas when some of the ministers who will vote on discharge today were also ministers of the environment. We know these things. I would also like to say that Minister Erjavac is actually engaged in this coalition for the entire term. You have taken an intensive approach in December and January. In fact, we have about thirteen, fourteen months of this exchange, in what way would we take this foretold step. And given the situation we are in, it is probably that first step of the exit strategy from a situation, in fact a necessary step to break down all those problems that are linked to the exit strategy. It is probably one of the fundamental reasons why Mr Erjavac should be disposed of, in the case of Patrio. The case, which occurred in the previous term only because Mr Erjavec, as Minister of Defence, was the one who did not realize the letter of intent signed by the government of Rob, in which you were the one who today decided on the fate of Minister Erjavac, was actually coalition partners. At that time, you gave political agreement, political support, that a letter of intent was signed with Viator & Vector and Mr Pavčko over the Public Procurement Act. At that time, the project amounted to about EUR 300 million, which was not limited to the story, was not determined, as was the case in the story of the six-wheelers, where, through various additional works, it was corrected, such and different stories had been added to unspent amounts. Today, this coalition is actually the same that helped to bring this letter of intent to fruition. However, I do not recall Mr Borut Pahor, Mr B. P., not anyone in the previous coalition has said anything against such an approach to this letter of intent and so on. Nobody. The robbery then, or later, in agreement with the current Prime Minister of the Government, even crossed over to his parliamentary group. And there were no reservations about that, no concerns, even though it was all over the Public Procurement Act and how else. The fact that this transaction was not properly implemented, not those 6X6, nor the continuation of this story with 8X8, has been found by the Commission of Inquiry in its previous mandate. That, too. However, it is obvious that the biggest political loser will not be those who have set up an eight-wheel project in such an inappropriate manner, when virtually all the agreement was reached within a month or two, from the preparation of the offer, the scope of the contracts and so on, without anything being done in the project work in this area, but only those who have not done so as expected. And this was the Secretary of Defense in the Yanshe government. This is probably also an important part of revenge for those who did not bring proper satisfaction and satisfaction in the implementation of this project, for those who signed it at the time. In the previous term, we have also heard many times that if any suspicion, any shadow, doubts about the fairness of this business, that there will be any suspicion of corruption, and that the current Secretary-General of the Government is likely to know more than well, it has been said that this treaty will also be cancelled as soon as possible. However, as a matter of fact, after a year nothing happened at all. The President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, after receiving some cold showers at home and abroad, has, in some miraculous way, remained silent, as these allegations of procedures, of corruption in some who perform political functions have not yet been confirmed in any way and procedures do not run as has been said. The fact that this is an unloving minister of the government coalition also shows that, after these arguments regarding Patrio did not stand up, there have been accusations of a non-conformity. At the moment, the coalition forgot all those other things, all those other burdens against the Minister of the Environment. The story of the bride's work has come and we have here today a very important argument. But as we hear it, the procedure is still pending. The assessment of whether this criminal procedure will actually proceed has not yet been carried out. In fact, it is said that there is an attempt to argue the appropriateness of the decision of the President of the Government with certain matters still at stake, I can say, slander. It is true, however, that then something happened that somehow suggests that it has been agreed that many have been made aware of what will be proposed, and that is what has already been said today. And in fact, there was some argument, some decision by the Court of Auditors, which was used as a basic argument that it actually joined the process for the resolution of coalitions, probably the unloving President of the party and also the Minister. I know that the environment is a difficult resort, that the environment is a demanding resource, but I also probably do not agree that Mr Karl Erjavec is the only one to pay for the failure of the climate agreement in Copenhagen. In fact, I would add here that this procedure, as proposed by Mr President of the Government, is a discharge process, some way out of the power of this government coalition. For all that is to happen, which is to make Slovenia successful, strong, permeable, all that has not happened in this mandate. If, in the previous mandate, we have succeeded in overcoming the European Union by 3% of the point, and at the same time managed to reduce public debt by a few strong percentages, so that we have also managed to do a lot in the field of prosperity, the story in this mandate has in fact turned quite the other way. Today, we have a team led by Mr Pahor, a team that could do even better than before. However, our backlog in one year for the European Union is incomprehensible. Instead of upgrading the achievements of the previous mandate and reducing the backlog behind the average of the European Union, in 2009, our car headed in a completely opposite direction in 2010. We do not need to say much about having anti-crisis rebalances, having anti-crisis packages of measures. None of this this year, last year and not this year. Nothing. The coalition agreement is not being implemented, the head of the Zareza Group announced in November at its party's convention when we will be given any law under the coalition agreement. This is not obvious because this problem has also been detected in the second largest coalition party, in Zares. There's no such thing. However, because there are no such measures, no one in the coalition is likely to be sanctioned. The anti-crisis group of ministers, eminent ministers, the best that the Slovenian government has ever had, is fighting creatively, seeking solutions, fighting. Once the exit strategy of the anti-crisis package is too long, once too short, once not coordinated at one point, secondly at the other point. We should be given a reform package, according to the Prime Minister, on March 20th, which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on 20 March of this year. [[...]] However, this reform of the historical package is not yet in place and no one is responding. Nobody's taking responsibility for that. On the other hand, when we propose measures in the SDS Group, we have proposed three large-scale measures, and everyone hides behind a matter for the Government to prepare a comprehensive review, a comprehensive set of measures, a systematic one that will not raise the public deficit in this mandate, and within one year we have taken only such measures, including budgets, rebalancies and so on, which have increased exclusively the public financial deficit to 5%. With a slight or even a positive or surplus deficit, we have increased the public deficit in a negative direction. At the same time, despite the fact that there was a forecast at the Celje Fair in September that the Government would prepare measures for at least a small economy that would facilitate their payment of contributions, payment of taxes, payment of other obligations, there are no such measures. They're gone! And in a number of cases, it would be just to simplify the way the payment is made, maybe just to pay with one pad and not with three, five, nine, eleven, as it is now being paid. For half of these deposits, the bank fees are higher than the amount of the transfer, in the case of an average salary. This is not an anti-crisis group, not a special working group, nor a government or anyone has been able to prepare at this time. I think that we have proposed this law three or four times, with which we would simplify at least this part, but never, never, never had any support in the coalition to implement this law through the process to the end. On the other hand, in this Government we have ministers who do not carry out their work, who abuse their functions, which put pressure on the work of independent institutions, such as the Securities Market Agency, to put pressure on members of the Supervisory Boards to vote. Who want to influence what the composition of the Doctorate Committees should be, and so on. But there's no problem. All of this is covered by some decisions, political decisions. And against these ministers who abuse their office, there is no action. At the same time, they don't propose what they should. We have cases where ministers are interfering with an independent judiciary in the prosecution's sphere. When a large part of the legal profession was identified as an improper intervention. Nothing. We have the case of the Minister of the Interior when he sets up a national investigative office, which we do not oppose, but we do not support, but there is no legal basis for it - the law is not adopted. This same minister violates the Law on Parliamentary Investigation because one of the investigative commissions, which you can read in all media, does not want to give data. Nor is this reason enough for the President of the Government to take a decisive step and propose something in this area. It's not that step. We have the case of a minister who was caught lying to the public about lying, and the President of the Republic set his word for him. Let's give the gentleman another chance. On his birthday a few days ago, in this Hall of the National Assembly, he twice again made a statement, statements that did not stand. It is evident with the documents that they do not hold the claim. And nothing has happened, and the President of the Government in this case is not thinking about anything or any step. I would have proposed or expected, not proposed, that the President of the Government, who has an interesting shortcut, BP, would have the same vat for all in some way, up to all his ministerial team, to judge whether they are actually working legally or not, so that, in this case, perhaps with the help of a mediator, Mr Zalar, as we hear, he was also activated in this case when it came to coordinating an agreement between the President of the Government and the President of the Court of Auditors, that he might also try to do something in this area, to help them get on the table of solutions, proposals for human resources solutions, which would actually help the Government to act more legally in order for ministers to implement what the Government law, the Constitution, and also the Rules of the National Assembly, and so on. But here we face some duality, some criteria, some criteria, but not others. I think there is something concrete to be done in this area as well. The President of the Government is probably also aware that a similar poor assessment of the response report is also available to Minister Shirca for two cases: the allocation of funds to the Media Fund and the Film Fund. Two cases of serious breaches found in the response report. Interestingly, the President of the Court of Auditors has not proposed anything here. But that doesn't mean the Prime Minister can't propose anything. The President of the Government may apply the provisions of the Government Act, may rely on the constitutional basis and may propose a measure. And I think it would be right for him to take a step in this area. So, ministers who act unwittingly, who do not do their job, are enough in this government. The Secretary-General of the Government is also among them, but this gentleman is likely to be rewarded for participating in the European Court of Auditors and so on. In the parliamentary group, this proposal by the President of the Government, we can say, leave the anti-crisis proposal to the government coalition to make an elegant decision on its proposal, and in this way also state its priorities and show its true face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, but first the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, has spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	I will not come forward often, but there have been some views expressed in the performances of the parliamentary groups, and I feel the need to explain what things I am going to explain and what things I am further informing. First, let me say that I am very pleased with my decision to justify the proposal for the discharge of Minister Karl Erjavac's associate. I have seen the temptations of many to discuss things that I did not want to put into motion for a solution. Here's what I'm going to say right now. When there was a lot of talk in the campaign about the suspicion of individual crimes, I always said that, for the first time, the government here in our true principle of innocence, if it doesn't prove otherwise, that I personally believe that none of the politicians took advantage of it, that was my personal position, and I never personally thought that Minister Erjavec had taken advantage of it, so I never had any trouble trying to convince the President of the party DeSUS that he would participate in the coalition. This belief of mine was very sincere, I thought it was good that he was cooperating and I think it was in principle good, and something is true, and I must admit it, and that was what the President and I said openly. It is true that the environment is many times the victims of the distribution of ministerial posts and that people who are under-qualified for such an extremely difficult business as the Ministry of the Environment come there. And if and when the National Assembly decides to dismiss Minister Erjavac, I suggest that the DeSUS Group of Members and then we all look together for someone with professional competences, a vision, and he will want to give himself completely to this task. Another time. There was a lot of discussion at Patria's. I have certainly been most frequently asked by the media, whether submitting an indictment is the reason why the President of the Government decides to propose to the National Assembly for Resolution. And you saw that I wasn't in a hurry with my decision. Not only is it still for various reasons, whether Minister Erjavec is in criminal proceedings or not. There are different explanations here, too. But it was a question of a standard, or a minister, as any citizen is subject to the presumption of innocence, but either as a minister with an indictment in his hands, he can continue his work in an authoritarian manner. And look, this indictment was not made by the government or by any party, which gave the state's attorney's office. And as you've seen, at the time, even after consulting Karl Erjavac, we were together in Copenhagen, I didn't make any quick decisions. It had to be weighed against one’s injustice or to weigh what was right and wrong. Even when it came to an accusation that it was an illegal sale of a share - sometimes it is necessary to see whether it is true or not. And it turned out that it was in the case of the Minister for Legal Conduct. And I'd run into myself if I did something different. Some expectation here that I have been looking all the time for some reasons for getting rid of cooperation with Minister Erjavc - this is not true. I've been looking all the time for reasons that the government is, and I admit this, more like a coalition, but that the government has worked as hard as possible as a team that has to go through severe trials. And here we are at the second point that I would like to say in the replica. Again, Mr Tanko mentioned how this government - whether unsuccessful or too late or ineffective - responds to the crisis. In your final package of proposals, for the so-called exit strategy, you have additionally charged the budget for the estimated €1.530 million. 60 would have saved them. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You'll give me your information. We calculated it because you didn't attach yours to it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	But since we are always critical here that this government is not doing anything other than increasing the deficit, this, please, is happening in all European countries, and Slovenia is not different in any way, and we were able to solve the crisis year after 1945 with fiscal measures. And no offense, gentlemen, back in 2008, when the conjucture ended and the recession was approaching, you had devastating results in the last quarter. Please, I'm not accusing you of anything, but please be right in this government's accusations of what she did and what she didn't do. I must say here, if in the previous term, dear Minister Erjavec, it has shown that the Court of Auditors' decision was challenged from a constitutional point of view, as you say, you were a minister in the previous government, you were a minister in this government, why we did not then, if you thought so, give it up in time before we went to decide on ad to persons, but we would have decided ad rem. Why hasn't anything happened for two years? And we're in this situation. And in this situation, I have ruled that the Court of Auditors has given the reasons for my decision before you today. And there are no other ministers here because I asked them to do their job because we have other tasks to do. I see that I am and there, as I would say, this smile of a fellow on my right. But the ministers are doing their job, I hope they're conscientious. If anyone ever proves unfaithful, I will have to react as Prime Minister. Surely it is, and thus I conclude this performance that I, as Prime Minister of the Government, will do everything in this year to take advantage of the opportunity that Slovenia offers me this year. I'm just gonna tell you one more time, no matter what, there's no direct discussion with the resolution right now. I think we will succeed if we acknowledge what is good, and I was ready, and once again, I say, to admit to many things that Minister Erjavac has succeeded, and because of this he has had my support. And I told you why I finally decided to take this step. To enable the Government and Slovenian politics to move forward in order to resolve the things that are destined for the well-being of our people. And I decided, with regard to the argument, I think, that's what the debate has now shown, okay. I also call on other ministers to hear that it is either too slow to do so, or I am warned to correct it. That's how I'm gonna do it. As others warn me, you're not the last one to answer you, and I'm trying to accept these criticisms as much as possible. Because, as I've said before, none of us are perfect. However, in order to be coordinated here, I need to make this clear once again that this has not been the case. We did not agree with the Court of Auditors on the prosecution's application or with the State's Attorney's Office for an indictment; these were their sovereign decisions. Please don't keep saying that because it's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Josko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Mr President of Parliament, I must remind you that you have not given me the opportunity to present my position after a 45-minute interruption. Three minutes belong to me to tell you why I asked for a break. Thus, the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure states: "The presentation of the position may take a maximum of three minutes." And while I'm talking, it's been three minutes. I understand Mr President of the Government, who says that he represents this autonomously, and I also understand his proposal. You must also understand our proposal why we have asked for a break - because we have 35 signatures gathered for the initiative to start the process of assessing constitutionality or legality. I just have to say again that this is collected and prepared. Furthermore, Article 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure states that this procedure may be concluded by a vote and that it may be assessed whether it is correct or not. That is why I think that all these things need to be considered to the end and then to be further discussed. I didn't want to take or usurp any rights, but this belongs to me, so I'm asking you to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Godec. First, paragraph 2 of Article 73 states that " [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The representative of the parliamentary group " So the representatives of the parliamentary group may normally, if they wish to do so, announce their position. [[...]] As regards the introduction of an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which was signed if I correctly understood, as you have informed me in the corridor, 30 Members and Members, it should be said that this procedure has no direct connection with the examination of the proposal by the President of the Government for the discharge of Minister Erjavac, because this legal basis on which the President of the Government has sent a proposal for a discharge is based on Article 13 of the Law on the Government and Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this sense, as has already been said today, the call of the Court of Auditors may constitute a whole or part of the justification for this proposal and, as has been said, the President of the Government may or may not have accepted such an invitation. In this case, he should explain to the Court of Auditors why he would not follow this call for a discharge. The call, so the Court of Auditors alone, in response to the previous President of the Government, Janez Janša, does not mean the Government's legal duty to discharge the responsible person or to propose a discharge. In this sense, we have here a proposal for a discharge under Article 13 of the Government Act and we are discussing it. So we'll keep doing this. Minister Karl Erjavec spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Clearly, the proposal for a discharge is not based on the Court of Auditors' call. Apparently, the proposal is based on your autonomous rights, because the Prime Minister of the Government can appoint ministers and also resolve them. I understood that my discharge was the subject of an appeal from the Court of Auditors. That's right. And I ask the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly, who is the guardian of constitutionality and legality, who is the guardian of the rule of law, whether you will allow the procedure which is constitutionally disputed to continue in the National Assembly. I said that respected lawyers, constitutional judges find that my right to appeal has been violated. This is constitutional law, Article 23. This call went off without a chance that I could say anything to that call. And those of you who are lawyers know very well that everyone in this country has the right to a remedy after the Constitution. And this is the first violation of what the Court of Auditors has done. Anti-constitutionality of the provision on the exclusion of any judicial protection. This is the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which is contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution. The consequences of the acts of the Court of Auditors are serious for the audited person, that is to say the responsible person in those bodies and organisations. I'm in the middle of a resolution today without having a chance to defend myself. The Constitutional Court has so far taken the view in some cases that it is necessary to provide judicial protection against decisions by which courts and other national authorities, such as the Court of Auditors, decide on the rights, duties and legal interests of individual and natural persons. From this point of view, it can be concluded that, in the Constitutional Court’s view, the full exclusion from the Constitution of judicial protection is not admissible. I am threatened with the complete exclusion of judicial protection, which is inconsistent with the Constitution. And I ask you, the President of the National Assembly: Will you protect the constitutionality and legality of the National Assembly? You will allow the procedure which has begun to be constitutionally disputed by the Court of Auditors and which has continued through the proposal of the President of the Government, who, while at the joint press conference, has taken the floor, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	No, no, I didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Si, si. You'll be able to look at the video when you said we agreed to go to the settlement proposal, but at the same time a constitutional review will be given. A constitutional judgment, however, to see whether or not it violates the Court of Auditors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	fundamental constitutional principles. [[...]] In this case, it happens. It's not a problem. You can get me out of here today. However, you must be aware that as an individual I have the opportunity to give a constitutional opinion and that I will also file it. But I ask myself about the credibility of the National Assembly and also about the credibility of the President of the National Assembly, who is the guardian of the constitutionality and legality of the National Assembly. Will you give up the moment when the Constitutional Court finds that the proceedings were unconstitutional? Look, it's not about that today, or we're replacing the Minister of the Environment. I said, I've got boxes packed. And I also said that I would step down, but I don't want to do that in a way where I'm being subjected to some groundless irregularities. In one month, I am supposed to solve problems that have not been solved by this country for 20 years, and not by you, President of the National Assembly, because you were also Minister of Environment and Space. And this is about the important question of whether we are going to the erosion of the rule of law. I don't care how you decide, but know that if I'm resolved today, there's going to be a constitutional judgment. And no matter how the Constitutional Court decides. If we can request a constitutional review for an arbitration agreement, why not here, when it comes to an obvious case that the procedure is not in accordance with the Constitution? Why are you afraid of that? Why don't you play the role of guardian of the rule of law? It is, yes, Slovenia's legal state, where we respect the principles of constitutionality and legality! Are we something else? And I'll tell you, this procedure, even if I'm relieved, in the 1960s, I'm going to give a constitutional opinion. And believe me, I believe Dr. Udet was a constitutional judge for nine years. And every student in law in the first year knows that everyone has a choice of complaint. Through an administrative dispute, the Supreme Court [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Mr. Jelinčič. [[...]] It's about whether you're going to protect constitutionality and legality too. [[....]] [[copy advertising.]] But, I hope, I'm counting on you. [[..]] However, I would like to say, irrespective of the decision of the Constitutional Court, that Slovenia is also a member of the Council of Europe, a member of the EU, you know that we have a court in Strasbourg where fundamental human rights are protected. And I am convinced that this call from the Court of Auditors violates fundamental human rights. And I hope, if there are really so many high standards, I wonder how many ministers will remain in this government. Will anyone else run for minister under such a high legal standard? Thank you for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I must say, somewhat unusually, Mr Minister has also turned to me. Once again, I would like to point out that we are not discussing and will not decide on the Court of Auditors' call for the discharge of Minister Erjavec, but on the proposal of the President of the Government for a discharge on the basis of the Government Act and on the basis of Article 112 of the Constitution. The implications of this are clear and have nothing to do with the Law on the Court of Auditors and their regulations in this law. The President of the Government, Borut Pahor, has called. Just a moment, Mr. Tanko, President of the Government of Borut Pahor. And then, you'll get, she was, please, I've been following very closely, Mrs. Flower Zalokar Orazem, I'm leading the session. Replica, Jože Tanko first. Procedural proposal. Please. The debate was held by the President of the Government. Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dear President! Here I think it is necessary to agree whether the discharge procedure of Mr Karl Erjavac is actually ongoing on the basis of Article 13 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Constitution or on request, at the invitation of the Court of Auditors. If the request for the discharge of the President of the Government for the discharge of Mr Erjavac is pending under Article 13 of the Government Act of the Republic of Slovenia, then the explanation should be amended in full. All of it. In this case, the President does not need any explanation and could resolve Minister Karl Erjavac for political reasons. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Mr Tanko, you are discussing the proposal, you have no procedural proposal. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	I have a procedural proposal. This is said to be a replacement of the explanation. However, in the event that the justification is fully based on the Court of Auditors’ call, the forecast statement or the head of that discharge requirement should be amended. I propose that the President of the Government decide on one option, that is to say, on the basis of Article 13 of the Government Act, and this is written with one sentence, we resolve Mr Erjavac for political reasons. Or correct the forecast above and write that, on the basis of this and this article of the Constitutional Court Act, it proposes this and this. And then there's an explanation. I suggest, Mr President of the Government, given that you are here, that you also have experience in parliamentary work, this may also be done orally at this meeting, so that we can reconcile this matter to remove these shadows of doubt, which is simply [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Mr Tanko, you propose a procedural proposal only to the President of the National Assembly, not to the President of the Government. Please finish. This is a discussion, you've abused this form of intervention, and please finish this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Yeah, look, if you're gonna say half the things for me, and that's different than I suggested, then we can't design this procedural proposal at all. I propose that we align the request with the explanation, saying that the reasons below are corrected, or that we turn to correct the forecasting statement, the reasons, the legal basis, so that this explanation is appropriate. That's all I'm suggesting. And then the debates can run on the basis [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] the political decisions and political preferences of the President of the Government, or on the basis of an appeal from the Court of Auditors, which is the real reason for this procedure, and we do so. [[...]] So much for this procedural work. But I still have a replica of the gentlemen. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Procedurally, the flower of Zalokar Orazem. Did you want procedural, too, sir? [[The ad in the hall.]] Procedurally, Flower of the Zalokar Orazem, please. [[The ad in the hall.]] [[He's quitting.]] The replica, the Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. In fact, I think, given the inability of government services not able to handle these matters, it would make sense to change this forecast sentence in accordance with Article 13 of the Government Act and that the matter is being carried out as we had in the previous term when Mr Janša [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	That's not a replica of the previous speaker. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Oh, of course, it is! Of course! Yes, it is. Because the previous speaker made a very broad explanation, and he also apostrologized me, so - please. When Mr Janša replaced Mr Drobnic, he simply replaced him. And when the President - at the time he led the National Assembly, I don't know, I don't think Mr Klavora, I'm not sure, but it was said that Mr Drobnič is still leading the ministry until the election of the Second Minister. And Mr. Janša immediately said, "No!" and replaced by Mr. Visjak. I think that's what we should do. And that's what we expect from the Prime Minister. But if we're going to negotiate here and we're going up and down, this national council is getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you have no reason to reply because you were not appointed. That's why I'm going to give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Were you appointed? So, then replica Aya, you said you were talking to him, right, Mr. President? [[...]] Good. Joz Tanko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Yeah, I'm sure. The end of the previous term - half the last quarter was the new government. [[The ad in the hall.]] She was!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	On 20 November 2008, we received a new government, fourteen days earlier than the previous one, for example, in the previous term. And hanging everything on someone is a problem, Mr. President of the Government. They hold things, they're verifiable. You have also proposed a final account in this mandate. But second, more importantly, this is a less important matter. We have actually proposed a package of measures, and in this package of measures we have also proposed many solutions, including anchor, that public spending cannot go beyond a certain part of GDP. Hold it! And this anchor is linked to the success of the government, a fundamentally different anchor than the government, which is completely independent of it, because it prescribes only the maximum amount of consumption and is not linked to any result, no effect of the country's operations and the economy as such. The measures proposed, on the one hand, provide incentives and, in fact, some relief to the economy, resulting in a little less revenue in the state budget through taxes and other things, but at the same time allow for increased economic growth, economic dynamics, the inclusion of other extra-employment entities, as many will opt for st.p. and will not benefit from subsidies or state aid. These measures, which we propose, have both burdens and revenue, and therefore the balance of our actions is not a billion and a half euros minus, not a billion and a half euros minus, as Mr President of the Government has said, but this effect is different and is much more durable for the country, because in cases where the Government proposes a solution, on the other hand, only works on these financial burdens, subsidies, aids and compensations, not on creation, on income work. Our actions are such that they spin. The measures proposed by the Government or proposed by the Government, for example, in excise duties, are such that excise duties have been raised and therefore there is no significant increase in the inflows in the country's budget, because consumers, transitors, those using fuel are less.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Comrade Tank, don't you think you're going a little over the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	I'm talking about reasons to justify it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Direct repair, please. Although it is the time of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	And so on. [[...]] In short, these measures are large, similar to those on tolls. Highlighting the vines by 100% does not mean [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Comrade Tank, you've already exceeded the replica time. Thank you very much. Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	I was asked here for a favor and I already did it. Let's see what it says. On the basis of Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 13 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President-in-Office of the National Assembly shall propose both. All you wanted, you already got, that's the first thing. And the President of the Government has every right to explain what he considers to be a justification for his decision on the basis of the articles you wanted to have in the introduction. That's the first thing. Second thing, let's agree on a fair approach. I am not saying that until 21 November last year or 2008, when our government took responsibility for running the country, it was bad, but please do not insist that everything was bad after 21 November 2008. Because, my dear friends, in October 2008, there was a collapse in the United States of Lehman Brothers Bank, which caused the collapse of the banking and then financial market in the entire Western world, the financial and economic crisis, which was the greatest economic downturn since World War II. So last year was something special, please. The fiscal rule you mention, we introduced it, and I said the last time we discussed it, there were more of these fiscal rules, but we are the first government to introduce it. And the third time. Here, my friend and Minister Karl Erjavec may be trying to overcome the excessive moral and political burden of the National Assembly. If, two years ago, he had expected the Prime Minister of Janša to resolve Mr. Sponik for the same reasons as I expect now from the National Assembly, and then, what he was cleverly hiding so far, he thought that we had to clarify whether there were any constitutional conditions or not for this, then he would have expected the Minister in the previous government and in my government to warn me about this and that we should initiate a constitutional review procedure before the "ad person" matter came along as long as the "ad rem" thing was still going on. And he didn't do it. So take it easy with regard to the moral and political burdens of this high house!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Finally, the first debater in this line, Mr Franco Juri, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, welcome - there is currently no minister - a colleague and a colleague. Of course, those who observe us today also ask themselves what is happening in this land. What's that? "Reality show" or, say, this real event. The fact is that we are not in court today, that this is not a court of law. We don't judge anyone, and no one is charged. We're in the National Assembly. And the decision that will fall today after this debate will be an eminent political decision. We are Members and Members of Parliament, and we will answer today or we will decide on the proposal of the President of the Government. That was explained today, said, there is no doubt here. This is also not an accounting within the coalition, because we believe that DeSUS, and in particular the DeSUS Group, is working properly in the coalition and we have not only friendly but also good coalition and partnership relations with them. And we are confident that today's debate on these relations will not be a principle. The fact is that we are discussing the political discharge of the Minister on the basis of some facts. These facts are well known, and I will not repeat them here. I think that we can never judge a man, a minister, a policy from a black-and-white perspective, and also a Minister of Erjavac would not assess in this way. I appreciate, for example, his efforts and his upright attitude on some key issues, for example: on the issue of the gas terminal, where he acted on the expectations of civil society and the public concerned, but I also have great concerns about the conduct and non-action of the Ministry of the Environment in the event of irregularities or even illegality in landfills, in landfills, in the operation of construction materials, for example in Cyprus, which we have also repeatedly warned about and asked questions from Members. But despite the content we're talking about, whether this minister was effective or not. I repeat, there are no black and white answers to this. So, there's--what? There is also and, above all, political judgement. And after what's been happening in the last days, after all the words spoken, and after the incompatibility that has been very obvious here today, we don't have a government president in this National Assembly, and we finally have a minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	The Prime Minister has a Macedonian guest. He'll be right there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	All right, all right. But given that today is a very relaxed debate, that this was also an interesting dialectic dialogue between the Minister and the President, I will also allow myself a slightly more relaxed style. And the fact is that today we are deciding on a political decision and that this decision has been formulated in a clear manner by the President of the Government. Now, does any of us imagine that his proposal would be said no and would - in order to remain Mr. Erjavec in his place - in fact vote against the President of the Government? It's a fantastic policy, I mean, it doesn't exist. That can't be true. We must maintain a certain degree of confidence in the responsibility of the President of the Government and, of course, we believe that there are some legitimate facts as well. Mr Minister, neither I nor others intend to accuse, even before you were gone, I have admitted that there are many good salaries in your work, and I am aware that you have done your job, at least in some chapters that are very important to us, conscientiously and correctly. I'm critical of other things. However, today we are discussing a decision based on some facts. These facts also come from the Court of Auditors. I myself do not feel competent enough to relativise the assessments of an authority such as the Court of Auditors. That's what my buddy Tanka let himself do. Of course, for him, who was mayor of a municipality years ago, the Court of Auditors' assessment was a marginal matter, it referred to, quote, "a few coins". You know, when we talk about this, we need to be very specific. Mr Tanko forgot to say that at the time this change was essentially about the excesses of the municipal budget, which were unwarranted by the Court of Auditors and which amounted to SIT 54 million, translated into euro, that is EUR 226 thousand 589. Gentlemen of the opposition, is that change? Are we going to explain this to the workers and the workers that it's just change? He mentioned three salaries, no, it was 33 budget lines! This is a revision of the Court of Auditors, so I propose a little more responsibility by the representatives of the opposition when they assess the work of the Court of Auditors. We have this responsibility and cannot pass some assessments. As far as the proposal for the discharge of the Minister is a political assessment of the Court of Auditors, I will not judge that. But the fact is, this isn't the first time that it's happened in the previous government, and the minister knows that. I would like, and I think that, by Minister Erjavac, it would be significantly more upright and correct if, in learning the incompatibility that is now clear, between you and the Prime Minister of the Government, he would resign himself. If I were you, I'd do it. I also did this as a secretary of state in similar circumstances, when I could no longer communicate with my superior, I simply wrote him a letter and I resigned, and I was not looking forward to it, but I think it was the only right decision. Therefore, Minister, today, what we have heard today would, of course, be worthy and justified if we were in court. Personally, I think that you are an honest man, I have no doubt until there is any evidence to be presented - if ever - but I have no doubt about whether you are honest or dishonest, you are honest with me. But the question of resolution is not a question of morality, and today you have allowed yourself too much and you have exceeded that limit of the right attitude towards the National Assembly when you have called on Members and put us on our conscience to a decision that would be different in other circumstances; but we are in Parliament today and we are deciding today on the Prime Minister's proposal, President of the Government. I think we're all aware of that. And that's why this insistence. I can't understand how you could remain a minister in the government after all the debates you've had, even here today with your friend the Prime Minister, this fight that could be entertaining for a lot of people who are now watching us is from a political point of view something specific. From now on, nothing will be like it was, and we are all aware of it; political circumstances have changed! And please let me understand this without sinking the entire ship. I think that DeSUS and I can continue to work properly, and my colleague from DeSUS has been very hard, but I also understand, in essence, the indignation over the attempt to involve all the representatives of DEMOS and even the family members, and I would even express my solidarity with these unjustifiable attacks. We who are in politics, we know them, are always prepared for these low blows, but today this should not affect the sobriety of our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. And I am also very glad that the Prime Minister of the Government has joined us. Look, we've had several conversations lately, even at a press conference, when we decided what to do in response to the Court of Auditors' call, we agreed - and you can confirm that - that we are going with a proposal for a discharge and that we will also examine if a constitutional assessment is needed. The point is that the Court of Auditors, as Minister, assumes that I have been politically responsible, that I have not taken part in certain tasks, and that I must be dismissed in the National Assembly for this reason. The question was whether the Court of Auditors had that power and jurisdiction and whether that was in accordance with the Constitution. I now find that this is not the reason for my dismissal, but the reason is Article 112 of the Constitution and Article 13 of the Government Act. These are political reasons why I cannot work in this government, and I accept these political reasons. I'm just sorry, Prime Minister, for talking a lot, even being together in Denmark, when this conference was held, you didn't say, "Karl, listen, there are political reasons, Patria, illegality..." [[The ad in the hall.]] No, but this is about the reasons for the Court of Auditors. And I'm attacking the Court of Auditors' call, which is constitutionally disputed. However, as I understand from this debate today, this is no longer an obvious matter by the Court of Auditors, but it is the political content of my resolution for political reasons. It's too bad you didn't tell me that in Denmark or earlier to talk like two men. And I would accept that you just can't work with me, that there's too many things bothering you, and I would understand that, because I'm a reasonable person. Also believe that you must be the Minister of the Environment and, in general, the Minister of the Government in this difficult situation - a little masochist. Because for such a low salary and for such a high responsibility, you must actually be led by a mission. I'm sorry. And if that is the case, if you now confirm to me that there are political reasons, not that the Court of Auditors has found that I have not acted in a timely manner with regard to the separation of municipal waste, that it is practically for some of the political reasons that Member Jury, Ambassador Zares, has said very well that we are already being seen as incompatible. And I accept that. And if that's the case, in the next moment, I'm going to step down from this function and I'm going to be pretty, elegant as we talked about finding an elegant solution, and I'm going to leave this ministry. But if there are really political reasons, not that I have been a victim of various perceptions for a month, that I am in criminal proceedings, I have listened to an LDS member, Mr Saiovic, otherwise my friend - I do not understand whether he has listened to my introduction to continue saying that it was an illegal sale of capital to continue to say that I am in criminal proceedings. I think that's incorrect. And, Prime Minister, if you say that the political reasons are those leading you, maybe this debate today, which may also show that we are incompatible, I will step down in the next step. You're gonna get up, say, sit down, I'm gonna get up, I'm gonna walk away.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I would just say that I had previously warned explicitly that the legal basis of the proposal for the resolution of the Law on Government and the Constitution. This significant Article 38 or 13 of the Government Act and Article 112 of the Constitution is the legal basis. I didn't talk about the reasons, I didn't speak at all about the content of the reason, Mr Erjavec. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	Maybe procedurally. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Please. You want procedural? Procedurally, please, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I suggest, if possible, I don't know, let's take a break for 10 or 15 minutes, and let the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister discuss what we're actually doing here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you. I'm not going to agree with this proposal. I think we're all going to see this. Mag. Does Radovan Žerjav have a debate if he wants to discuss it? He doesn't want to. Matjaž Zanoškar is next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Fellow Members. Today is a day for which I could say that he is quite unhappy, unhappy for the Dessus Group, unhappy for Mr Erjavac, the Minister for Space and Environment and also for the party president, that he is probably less happy for all coalition colleagues and for the parties that make up the coalition. If you may have believed that there would be no hot debate by DeSUS Members in the debate on the discharge of Mr Erjavac, then you were wrong. We would also expect it to be a proposal for the dismissal of Mrs Katarina Kresal or for Mr Golobic. You'd probably also come forward, defend your opinion and try to present it in the best way possible. We're always talking about DeSUS being a solid member of the coalition. We have always proved this, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, when we all in one voice endorsed the party's proposals, the amendments of you, respected colleagues in the coalition, and this was what confirmed our firmness in the coalition. We have always been loyal and inclined, constructively inclined to create all the advanced and developmental projects and ideas that this government has envisioned. However, after all of this and after this proposal, for which we actually know where the main reason is today, it is not the Court of Auditors, but it is the President's decision, because, last but not least, after the 13th member of the government, he has a discretionary right and also a privilege of power, a privilege of deciding in such a way that we must respect. So it is no different than that two people who are addressed to a "friend" agree that they cannot work together and then come up with a proposal for the discharge and probably also the discharge of the Minister of Environment and Space. It is not that simple, because it is not only about the Minister of Environment and Space, but it is also about the President of the DeSUS party, and if we, colleagues and colleagues, have written in a coalition agreement that it is good and that the President of the Party, such as in Parliament or in the Government, must be, then we are asking ourselves what will happen with the resolution of Mr Erjavac - not as Minister, but as President of DeSUS, who was now the link between the party, between the parliamentary group and the government in the design of a programme that is certainly on our side, and the stakeholders, who are working for the pensioners who are working for the workers who are socially disadvantaged, who are working for those who are now on the brink of existence. With the exit or expulsion of Mr Erjavce from the Government, then there is a gap in how you imagine - and we can't actually imagine - filling this gap in the sense that the coalition agreement that we have entered these elementary content that DeSUS represents will be able to implement and implement. In what way, if we do not have specific contact with the work of the Government, if we do not have an impact on the design of a strategy that is explicitly defined for the population groups that our party covers? This is the fundamental issue that bothers us and is very important for us who are still in the coalition. However, such moves, as has been said, will never again be as they were. In such moves, this strong coalition member, such as the Dessus Group and the Dessus party, is likely to be slowly softened. And it is likely that from now on there is no need for an agreement for all decisions or for all proposals coming to Parliament. You have to be aware of that. And it is likely that you, Mr President of the Government, were counting on the fact that by opening this issue, one spectacle of political issues and political aggravation is also opening up, and it is likely that all together, at the end of all of this, will require a very exact redefinition of the relations that we have in the coalition. I know that it may not be appropriate, in principle, that this is a question concerning DeSUS and the position of DeSUS in the coalition, and I know that it is likely that the places where this could be better and otherwise discussed include those issues that my colleagues on the left have also started to raise today from the SDS. This is said to be a crisis exit programme; it is a package of measures that will help our country and the well-being of our people. It is probably more quality and more necessary to discuss this today. However, today it is on the programme and on the agenda of the resolution of Mr Erjavac. And that's why, sorry, if I had to, I had to light up some things from that angle. Today it is almost as if they were in the arena; the people in the arena are made up of opposition parties, they are thrilled to see gladiators in the arena, but we gladiators, from coalition parties. I hope this thing gets some moderate content and a moderate conclusion. Above all, we want to sit down and talk and pour ourselves pure wine after this act, whatever it may be. In order not to make such a move for us in the future, we are very premature and reckless. I am sure that even when you decided to propose the discharge of Mr Erjavc, there were many other legal acts that could be used on the basis of the Court of Auditors' audit, from the renewal of the Court of Auditors' proceedings to some other, which could give more light to the situation and shed light on its guilt in all this. And it may have affected that today we would not have a discharge on the agenda for Mr Erjavac. Once again, it is not so much a problem for the resolution of the Minister for Space and the Environment, it is a problem of the functions he performs: that is, the President of the Party of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Borut Pahor, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	The duty I perform, the duty of the President of the Government is, in these difficult circumstances, too difficult for me to be guided by any other guidance in my pursuits than by trying to leave something good behind. In this I need to know, and 20 years of my political experience gives me a good enough basis for now, this moment most important, that the Government is doing its job. On Thursday, it will adopt a stability programme, a proposal for a minimum wage law, a proposal for amendments to the Income Act and a number of other decisions to be taken towards the preparation of a final exit strategy to be discussed in the National Assembly in February or at the latest in early March. This is a large-scale measure that will be here before you to take or reject them. The future of Slovenia is not so dependent on whether or not Minister Erjavec will remain in this position, but whether the National Assembly will take some key measures that are coming to Parliament right now. And that's when it turns out we have a majority. And I don't want to be a single day more Prime Minister if I don't have a political majority that will bravely move forward with some of the things that are important to solve this crisis. I don't care if or not some coalition works just to stay in the Prime Minister's rooms for a few more days. I've been there from morning to evening all day, so I don't have any, what do I say, longing to be just an hour longer than it needs to be. So, just like Minister Erjavec said, this job, only if you know why you're doing it right now, is actually a pleasure to do it. That is why I say: with all political responsibility, in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution and Article 13 of the Government Act, I have proposed that today the discharge of Minister Erjavac, you, as a coalition partner - I hope that I will continue to work with the President of the party, regardless of this sincere dialogue here between us - and let it not surprise you, I know that you may not have been used to it in the previous coalition, but now we are, we need to speak honestly and openly. That's what it's all about. The National Assembly will decide whether or not it agrees with my proposal and then it will be shown whether the political majority is available to take measures that are important for the future in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I would like to say that I am sitting here today on the basis of Article 112 of the Constitution, as has been said, and I resent it, I do not care at all what the elements of the coalition treaty are, what is written in it or not, because I am not a member of the Slovenian National Party in the coalition. Another time. Article 112 is very clear. Ministers shall be appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly at the request of the President of the Government. Today we have received a proposal for a solution. And before I say my position, I will give a fair warning to the Prime Minister of the Government: Minister Erjavec is Minister of the Pahor's Government and his responsibility is also the responsibility of the Pahor's Government. Minister Erjavec answers today as Minister of Pahor's Government, meaning that the same responsibility will be borne by Pahor's government tomorrow or even greater. Since the President of the Government has the right to appoint and resolve ministers - for what reasons, of course, his problem is not mine - and because I have appointed the Minister of Environment and Space as a member of the National Assembly to his proposal, this time I will also take into account the Government's proposal for a discharge, and I will comply with this proposal. Everything else, colleagues and colleagues, from personal hygiene, we leave to the President of the Government, who is responsible for the work of his ministers in agreement with the Minister, whose responsibility is equal to that of the Pahor government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Procedural Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Mr. President-in-Office of Parliament. My proposal is to consult in the DeSUS Group on a new proposal. I would like to request a 15-minute suspension, if possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Unfortunately, it's not possible because you've already taken advantage of it. Unfortunately, this option is no longer given to you by the Rules of Procedure. I used to, as I say, go along the edge of the rules of procedure. But now I would "fall," I would certainly break it, although I can say that, in accordance with Article 73, the chairman may suspend the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when it will continue. That's my chance as president. I think that the Group of Members is in a position that no Group of Members would ever want to do, and I can honestly say that. That is why I will use this option, taking into account the opportunity that the President considers to be the first paragraph of Article 73, and give 15 breaks until 16.55. At 4:55 p.m., we continue the work of the assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I suspended the meeting on the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, but only at the initiative of the Head of the Desus Group. Does the leader wish to provide an explanation in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you very much for these 15 minutes. We have examined our political situation within the coalition, there have been some new moments and we will only endure until the end of this debate, unless Minister Karl Erjavec decides otherwise. And that's in his own judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister for Environment and Space, Members and Members of Parliament. I have to say, first of all, it's very interesting if we look at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	Today's list of debaters, we see that virtually no debater from the Group of Social Democrats today is reported for this debate, which is extremely significant. [[...]] This, of course, shows that they obviously do not have enough solid arguments, why it is in fact necessary to discuss the suspension of Mr Karl Erjavac today. And what's interesting is that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	The President of the Government said about 14 days ago that it would be good to have a discussion in this House about the Minister's replacement, but today his Members do not want to talk about it and discuss it. [[...]] What I would like to say first at this point is that, although I was registered for the debate, I did not want to talk at first, but I decided later to speak, especially because of the initial words of the Prime Minister, who I think are extremely double-minded and also point to a lot of confusion about the suspension and non-refoulement of ministers. Let me begin by introducing a matter that was published in the newspaper Delo yesterday. This is a survey that, in my opinion, is extremely interesting and shows how, in fact, the media in this country work, which are fully connected, "slipped" with the left and government coalition. Let me tell you, she was in Del yesterday. [[...]] I would only ask, Mr President, if you could silence Members and Members of Parliament a little bit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	I can call them to keep the peace in the hall. I won't be able to silence them personally, but I'm really asking for peace in the hall. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Until they were gone there was peace, so [[...]] See in yesterday's Work a survey was published where respondents were asked the following question: "Which of the ministers in this government should be replaced in the opinion of respondents?" Of course, there is absolutely nothing wrong with this question. Correctly, correctly, and thank God that there are such surveys and that they work at Del. But something else is interesting. The names of respondents were said to have only four ministerial names. These are Minister Erjavec, Minister Križanič, Minister Miklavčič and Minister Zalar. Very interesting! However, there was no indication of a single name, but it appears in public most of the time as Minister of Shooting. This, of course, is Minister Gregor Golobič. However, his name was not suggested in this survey. Interesting! Very interesting, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem! Mr. Golobič was not suggested, his name was not suggested. Then the question was raised; moreover, the respondents asked whether any other minister should be replaced after them. They asked. And the only one mentioned by a large number of respondents is said to be Minister Gregor Golobič, without any suggestion. Then it would appear from this survey that if the name of Minister Golobič were also suggested, then perhaps Minister Golobič would be even before Erjavc and before Križanič and before Miklavčič, and before Zalar. Very interesting! But, of course, that name wasn't suggested in the poll yesterday. It is therefore a kind of insinuation of the opinion that some people must leave, even if that is not the case, and that those for whom politics has determined that they must stay, even though people think otherwise. And all the forums, all the research. But Mr Golobič does not protect against his own mistakes, only poll makers in our country suggest what the survey should be like. Mr Golobič is protected from his own mistakes by both the President of the State and the President of the Government. No one is distanced from his mistakes, even saying that some lie is just a mistake to look at from another salary, and the minister needs to be given an additional opportunity. Now, the second time he got confused and didn't know the right data - although I doubt he was aware of it, because I think that the minister, who has so long a political path and a career, probably already knows that there are things that need to be looked back. So the President of the country still insists that this is just a mistake. And the president of the government, too. It was also interesting that there are double criteria in this country. At the time when the Patrio affair broke out, which today is also part of the Minister Erjavec, who, of course, is out of all this colloquial, when he was not aware of what was being said, it is evident that he was not doing his job conscientiously. But when the Patrio affair broke out and the former Prime Minister of the Government was accused of taking bribes, the President of the State said that the legal state was under trial. There was nothing proven. After the Ultra affair, when it was explicitly proven that there was intentional concealment of the Minister of Interest in Ultra, it was said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Irgle's colleague, I know you'll charge me with protecting Minister Golobic, but please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	We've been used to this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	I'm ready to accept this. You say you're used to such accusations by the President of the National Assembly, I believe, but I would really ask you to return to the topic that is now at the heart of this trip. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	This is very relevant to the subject and to Minister Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	I wouldn't agree with you, but we're not gonna argue about this. Please return to the subject [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	I know you won't agree [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	which is the subject of today's agenda item. [[...]] However, we will probably have points on the subject of Minister Golobič at regular or extraordinary meetings more than once. So please, you'll have a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u212	I thank you for that, but there must be some comparison with the other ministers. I don't know why not, but we live in a free country where I hope we can talk for now. So when the Ultra affair took place, the President of the State said that it was only a mistake regarding Minister Golobic. And, of course, this is about obvious double criteria, which apparently hold this coalition together. And I'm actually surprised how DeSUS is still in this coalition. That really surprises me. And they themselves say they have serious problems. I don't know why they still insist on this coalition. As we discuss this issue today, I have a feeling, given the discussions, that it is more important to deal with Minister Erjavac at this time than with the exit strategy from the economic crisis. More importantly, the unwanted minister, who, for example, had nothing to prove in Patria’s affair, to overturn and abandon. This is more important than solving some social distress for individuals. Don't let anyone think I'm protecting Minister Erjavac right now. No! No! I am sure that every minister makes mistakes, and also Mr Erjavec, as surely as any Member, can make mistakes, and everyone can make mistakes. However, I do not agree with the way in which Mr Erjavac was staged here in a coordinated manner with the deliberate destruction of Erjavac by the ruling coalition. That's what bothers me. So, then, the way in which Minister Erjavc’s resignation or termination occurred, apparently. Mr President of the Government, you have repeatedly said that you have done this because of the Court of Auditors, because the Court of Auditors has said so, and I think you do not believe this in some of the elements, because I am sure that there are other backgrounds here. But it is true that you have come to terms with Mr Soltes, of course, quite well. Especially in order to preserve your beautiful image of a cognizant man and, as you said, a friend of Mr. Karl Erjavac. What I can do - just because I've spent a little too much time - which seemed the worst to me personally in your presentation at the beginning to remove the minister: on the one hand you praised him and on the other hand you just pushed the knife in his back. That's not how you and your friends do things - considering you mentioned him as a friend more than once. So it is not personal for me to protect Mr Erjavc, but rather to avoid such a way in the National Assembly being used, such a way of liquidating one person, when it comes to some others who, in some sense, might be more deserving of dismissal, but it is protected at all levels because politics is as it is, and the lobby is extremely strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u213	Mr. Minister Erjavec has applied. Procedurally, Mr. Kek. Procedural proposals have priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President. There was a lot of talk about suggestion, so I would ask that you suggest to some speakers that the meeting on Mr Golobic on 20 January, in which it was clear that all of Ultra's credits on the basis of the NLB document, signed by the President and a member of the administration, were adequately secured and given without any influence from Minister Golobic, were given in the manner that they are given to comparable companies. And that's what we found at the previous session, which means that we've been listening to the deception for eight months, you would have used the vocabulary to lie - on your side. We discussed this last week.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. This wasn't a proper procedural proposal, but still. Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Obviously, I am dismissed, or this proposal for a discharge, pursuant to Article 112 of the Constitution and Article 13 of the Government Act, which, of course, gives the President of the Government or the mandate-holder the opportunity to appoint ministers and also to resolve them. I must say that until this point or one hour ago, I was convinced that the proposal for a discharge was based on an appeal from the Court of Auditors. Now I understand that these are political reasons, and I respect that. That's why I'm telling the National Assembly that it's been a pleasure working with you. I've always had a lot of questions, seven, eight, so that was interesting. I have also gained some experience from this, regardless of the fact that I am actually in government for 10 years, first of all as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, where we have also had heavy hours with judicial backlogs, with notaries who are obviously doing their job better now because they have saved me in one case. I also thank the President of the Government for his cooperation, and I see that this debate is painful for him. I don't want him to continue suffering, I think it's two hours and 42 minutes and a few more seconds. I will tell the President of the Government that, given that he really has bigger problems than who should be sitting, who should be working at the Ministry of the Environment, we know what the state is like, we know that we need a strong coalition if we are to be part of all the things that await us, from the pension reform, from the health reform, from the exit strategies of the crisis, these are difficult projects. I'm sorry that the coalition didn't work as a family, a partnership, that in fact the whole time was this call, that it was a threesome plus DeSUS as the last car in this coalition. However, I declare my resignation from the post of Minister for the Environment and Space. Maybe I'll see you some other time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Therefore, since Karl Viktor Erjavec announced the resignation of the Minister of Environment and Space, there are no formal conditions for further consideration of the Prime Minister's proposal for the discharge of the Minister. I hereby end this item of the agenda, which we will continue when, in accordance with Rule 271 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I receive a written notice from the President of the Government on the resignation of the Minister. I also adjourn the 13th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote in 30 minutes, at 5.40 p.m. Please, Mr Jerovšek, it is no longer possible to make procedural proposals now, the meeting has been suspended, and we will continue at 17.40. Procedural proposals cannot now be made, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u218	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - secondly, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 2. I ask for peace and attention in the hall! We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 18. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 18. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 50. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I note that two amendments were adopted to the draft law, namely Articles 2 and 18. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We vote, the vote is on. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 21. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 22. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 36. We vote, the vote is on. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 18. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 46. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] We return to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. [[It happens!]] So we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes, if you agree, the decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for an Infrastructure Law for Spatial Information, the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 36th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the public presentation of the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the Government's effectiveness by Mr Josette Tanka. May I have peace in the hall, please? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko. Please. I'm asking for your attention and peace in the hall. It's hard to work because there's noise coming from all sides. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. It is particularly difficult, for example, in such unrest, especially the opposition. I have asked the honourable President of the Government the question about the preparation of the measures and on the consensual cooperation of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and parliamentary parties in the preparation of the measures to get out of the difficult economic situation in which the Republic of Slovenia was located in 2009 and also at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, we find that it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u220	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u221	The good conditions, the good foundations left by the previous Government, have also not been taken into account and accepted by the proposals made by the government, the former government in departure, and worse still, even in 2008, there were no adequate anti-crisis measures. [[...]] Both of the rebalancings submitted were based on wrong macroeconomic assumptions. As a result, spending was significantly higher than income allowed, and the public financial deficit increased significantly. The Slovenian Democratic Party submitted two additional packages of anti-crisis measures in April, but not the first, unfortunately, the government coalition did not deal adequately this year. We are of the opinion that these measures have been worth listening to, that they are worth considering, and that they are also necessary for a way out of the economic crisis, especially because they are dedicated to that part of the Slovenian society that creates additional value that creates new value, and this is the economy. It is also heard that the Government is expected to adopt an exit strategy on Thursday, a document that is expected to bring some measures to get out of the economic crisis, but unfortunately also this proposal has not been coordinated by the Government with the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, many also do not know what measures this government proposal is taking. The opinions of some economists are, for example, last Dr. Štibler that it would make sense both to consider the SDS package and the government proposal together at the same meeting and to make some synthesis of measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u222	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u223	Unfortunately, the President of the Government did not respond to anything in this reply, nor did he give any clear signal for a consensual policy, and therefore I propose that, in accordance with [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] also support the proposal for non-response [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Explanation in your own name, Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u225	I will also support the debate on this issue. In addition to what I heard today from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is still unaware that his government is responsible for the situation in which Slovenia is now. He still believes that the former government is responsible for this situation. Today we have heard that in the last quarter of 2008, Lehmans Brothers Bank collapsed. As a result, Slovenia did not suffer any consequences, although the Bank of Slovenia was deprived of some €40 million because of the inadequate move made by its Minister Gaspari at the time when the Governor of the Bank, who bought these bonds, was thus deprived of Slovenia of some €40 million, but the Prime Minister himself spoke in this National Assembly in March and last year 2009 about how Slovenia will record 0.6% of economic growth in 2009. He was the one who proposed a rebalancing under this assumption in March. It would be good for us to hold this debate, to remind Prime Minister Pahor of what the Government is doing and what the Government must do, to also face those indicators that he has apparently forgotten, and to present again 300, 400 pages of hard brochure that he received at the time of the transfer of business by the previous government, where these indicators received are very accurately described in all the elements. An additional reason to hold this debate is that today Minister Erjavec has set very high standards for the Pahor government with his resignation. This team can start working better if, on the basis of these high standards, at least three other ministers are to step down immediately. If this happens, then in the context of the discussion on the non-response of the Prime Minister, we could also propose some concrete measures that could be summarised by a new updated, quality team that Slovenia will not, as announced by Greece, because in this context, Slovenia is currently in bankruptcy in a few months or years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I am also of the opinion that this proposal should be supported in order to have a broad debate here on this answer from Mr Pahor. For not least from his answers to very specific questions was nothing concrete. He did not give any concrete answer. There was a lot of pretty talk, but it wasn't concrete. Perhaps his answer is the most concrete, probably he was convicted, but I believe that others have detected it, at least we are when he was working, when Mr Tanko expressed his concern for the government's work when he said, "We know how to take care of ourselves, we know what needs to be done." That's what we believe. It is obvious that the Government's concern is, above all, to take care of itself, of its privileges, of individual ministers and of Members as well. The other thing that is very worrying is today's address in Finance Officer that Slovenia reaches its highest external debt in 2009 at the end of October, exceeding EUR 40 billion gross, net 10. It means that all the fine sayings we keep listening to by the government, the president of the government, even by the coalition, don't hold. We are getting deeper and deeper into the crisis. You have no answer to the question. I think that such a discussion would, in particular, help and benefit Mr Pahor, ministers and all the coalition Members. I think that the many proposals that we will make could be taken into account and that it will be much easier for all of us in Slovenia. Believe us, it is not a matter of populism, for it is two and a half years before the elections, if not three, and it is right for us to come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. In his own name, he will explain the voice of Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It makes sense to listen to multiple voices, because more heads know, at least that's how they used to speak in Slovenia. We could change that today, and we'd say that only a few heads know everything, even though they're empty. In this way we could apply these Slovenian talks today. But I think it makes sense for the coalition to listen to what the opposition has to say. After all, we're in the same boat, we're going in the same direction, and I'm afraid that we're going increasingly towards some waterfalls that are at least as high as Niagara and I don't want to fall down over there. But everything shows that we are going to fall, because the government doesn't want to listen to anyone, does what's right, does what's wrong, does what's wrong, doesn't know how to do it, or doesn't want to do what I'm afraid of. However, the government is very successful in some matters concerning themselves. Defense of certain ministers, defending certain financial holes, throwing money out the window, paying to certain city mayors because they once helped them in the elections, and so on. In short, this is happening in our Slovenia, and I think it makes sense to pour ourselves some pure wine, to talk to each other about what is going on, and especially to take into account the good ideas that the opposition and not just the coalition have. The coalition shows that it has no good ideas that it has no good plans, but I'm afraid it doesn't have good intentions either. We will support this proposal from Mr Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I see there's more reports. I'm opening time for an application. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u231	It would certainly be very good for Slovenia to support today's proposal for a debate, because a key event in this direction has been done a little earlier. In fact, what will change as a result of Mr Erjavc's resignation from Slovenia in terms of the economic performance of Slovenia? The answer is: absolutely nothing will happen because in reality the Slovenian problem was not the functioning of this minister, it was not the functioning of this ministry, but the Slovenian problem is the functioning of this coalition as a whole. In fact, let's put it simple. First of all, from the circle of people who are obviously close to the president of the LDS, he is publicly informed that the president of another coalition party, specifically Mr Golobic, has a "kaselc" company abroad. And then, of course, he's nailed to the cross. Well, that's justifiable because he stood up for himself. Then, from a circle close to Mr Golobič, she slips into the public information that Mrs Kresalova, through her mother, is involved in an affair that may have elements even of corruption, is certainly questionable in terms of the protection of human rights and personal data, and may also be nepotism. In short, there's another affair again, and everyone's doing it again. But today it was also last week, Mr Erjavec. The Slovenian economy, however, is concerned with establishing a framework for reviving the Slovenian economy, while the coalition rejects its proposals. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that we are from the surplus of knowledge, from the surplus of development that was far above the European average. [[End warning sign]] ‘We have now slipped into a decline that is much worse than on any European average, by any economic indicator we take. And when you talk about the same boat, from the yellow rocket [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u232	Mr Grimes, I can expect you to vote, but you didn't say that because you're running out of time. Mr. Andrey Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I think that, according to the Prime Minister's response, the debate should be held and I will support it. Why? Clearly, not only in the Government's work, but also the President of the Government does not understand the proposal tabled by the SDS as the third package of anti-crisis measures. When he stated that the financial result of this package was as much as EUR 500 million, he could not, of course, from the framework of some very simple static financial assessment of this measure. In fact, he took into account some calculations that were wrong. I will therefore say again today, as was already the case when the third package of measures was presented by the proponents: that the measures are aimed at decommissioning the economy and creating new jobs, that their weight is around €360 million and that the calculation of the government does not take into account the following indirect effects. In fact, each job means that we get a new taxpayer who settles income and pays contributions for health and pension insurance, and that we do not have to pay for him because he is unemployed by the state or by the congregation. The calculation of the Ministry of Finance does not take into account that this unemployed person receiving a job no longer costs social transfers and various active employment policies. And, Your Honor, if we unload the economy, the economy can also pay more taxes. The last tax reform in 2007 proved this when we reduced taxes and we collected more taxes. For if more economic operators pay, if more operators have created to relieve them, they can also pay more. So this static assessment of the government is the wrong and respected Prime Minister of the Government has cited it. That is why I think it is right to explain these figures once again and perhaps a hundred more times.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Jože Tanka's question on the efficiency of the government's work. Mr. Tanko, would you be so kind as to sign up when I'm looking at the hall, not after I read the proposal?Oh, my God! Who else signed up? Mr Tanko, I give you my word, I only ask you politely - sign up when the time for application opens, not after I have read the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Well, when the circle is complete, you can ask again if anyone else will apply, and it would be okay. Respectable. The President of the Government said that the crisis is an opportunity for progress, for the game, for us to be better than others. Unfortunately, I note that in 2009, we lost this opportunity to start far behind others and that it also shows poorly in 2010. It is also extremely bad to start this year, especially because nothing is happening, practically there are no concrete agreements and laws that should trigger economic development. A colleague of Zalokareva herself has found that the coalition agreement is not being implemented and that these commitments, which are made by the coalition agreement, are not and also laws on this. The fact that things are true also shows that a package of reform measures is not being implemented by the President of the Government, who said that it will be submitted by the end of last year, which will have some historical weight - and this is not. He has announced a whole range of measures, especially to relieve the small economy - and there are no such measures. And I think it is more than necessary to discuss these things that are not, and have been announced, to have a debate in the National Assembly, to compare them, to find out what is here, and to discuss what they have proposed, perhaps others, to stand and probably is good. I think it is irresponsible to have such discussions in the National Assembly, where there is a place for coordination of views [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] measures, we do not hold a debate on the adoption of laws. [[...]] The rejection of such a proposal means that the coalition, with the Government at the helm, is extremely afraid of this debate with the President of the Government. I'll support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u236	Are you going to vote in favour of your proposal?Oh, my God! Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I will not support the proposal for a debate, because if I am not mistaken, we have talked about it on Wednesday, 20th this month, even this afternoon. All the ministers of the government were present, and whoever listened to this debate at the time could hear that the measures were being prepared. That's what we heard today. You have also received clear assurances as to what will happen this week or what will happen next. I think it's just weird, funny, that actually, I don't know where no one's listening is saying the same things. And I am pleased that I have been appointed for the third time in the last days to say something about the proposed measures in November. I'm glad that this way makes me popular, but from November to today, a lot has happened. I have to say, at this point, I think it's happening and important things are happening. Last but not least, we listened to all your suggestions on Wednesday afternoon. I must say that your proposals at some points are perfectly fine, and I am sure that a number of things will also be taken into account, but yet what you have proposed and is weak in your proposal, calculations, influences on other things, but this needs to be reconsidered. It is very easy to propose in the way you are, but do not take into account all the consequences and do not take into account the overall public financial situation. It's not a simple matter, and you're not showing it that easily, and the whole of Europe is having problems with it, and it's no different for us. Otherwise, I think you really don't have all the answers, and finally, admit it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much. May I put the motion to a vote? We will vote on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to Mr Jožet Tank's question on the efficiency of the Government. We're voting. There's 74 in attendance. There were 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Puksic's delegation regarding the use of EU funds. Mr. Franz Puksich, please. On behalf of the Member of Parliament or on his own behalf? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Franz Puksič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Not only yesterday, but we have been warning for some time in the Slovenian People's Party that the Borut Pahor's Government on all three operational programmes negotiated by the previous government for the period 2007-2013 until about the second half of 2007 and has also done so until the end of its mandate, that is to say, by October 2008, the 1.5 billion calls - and not just the tenders, including the signed contracts and applications for reimbursement - have unfortunately not occurred throughout the year or even more of the Pahor government. As you know, we've negotiated 2 billion Euros plus, and in Europe we're paying 3, we're getting 5.1 back. Of this, 0.9 billion is about for agriculture and 4.2 for cohesion policy, which is divided into three different operational programmes. My question was: First time. Why "for God's sake" was the President of the Government always silent and allowed State Secretary Andrej Jerin to provide a ministerial letter from Slovenia to Brussels regarding the return of EUR 296 million to the Slovenian budget? And a second time. Why, though, did not the so - called 5th invitation come about last year? In fact, Minister Žagar tendered four tenders in one year after the negotiations, where EUR 300 million was tendered. Now there was no invitation to tender in one other year! The President of the Government did not reply to this - and even less so with regard to the intervention of Andreja Jerina - and he did not reply with a single sentence why this fifth call, which will now take place on 29 January, will not cover the period 2010-2013. In fact, this fifth call will keep 90 million, which belongs to one year and all the remaining balances for regional development projects in the first four calls. There is simply no logic, or it will cause much trouble, for a number of congregations will be deprived of funds. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a debate here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please. In your own name? Or on behalf of the Group of Members? [[In his own.]] In his own name, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u241	I will support the proposal for this debate. In 2009, I asked former Minister Plosteiner's questions. She replied that this fifth invitation to tender would be issued by 30 June. That didn't happen. I've asked the question again. The answer was up to 30. 9. That didn't happen either. Well, then we were faced with these writings in public and we found out what it was really about and why the Minister had actually resigned. Not for health reasons, but because it was simply blocked by another minister in order to be able to call on the funds available in Europe. It is 300 million euro of funds that could be used by municipalities for important projects in 2009. 2,800 children remained in Slovenia in September, according to Minister Lukšić. And from this invitation, kindergartens could be built. That's what Pahor's government stopped. Where's the bride's job here, and who's gonna be and when's gonna be pissed about it? No one, because those ministers sitting in those chairs have the right political cover. Of course, Minister Erjavec didn't have it, which is why he was charged with a job as a bride. This is Slovenia today. And this is the legal country in Slovenia. Euro300 million, which will be tendered on Friday, not even €300 million, will be available only when the applicants have legal building permits. This was not the case in the previous period. All four invitations to tender were made in a different manner. In the meantime, documentation was obtained, and thus time was saved, time was not lost so that the projects could take place smoothly. Wrong. Bad. It's scandalous. But the scandal is that some minister in the government can block something that's good for the Slovenes, and that's why he should step down. He didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič will explain his voice on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Given that we know and already know how the coalition will vote, which will not accept this proposal, the Slovenian National Party has already filed a criminal complaint against Mrs Jerina on 7 January of this year because of the suspicion of a crime of abuse of official status or official rights under Article 257 of the Penal Code. The fact is that we are convinced that 256 million is huge money, and even though this current government is on the upheaval, it is a shock that Slovenia will not easily endure. I think the case is ripe for prosecution. But I'm sure Mrs Jerina will say some more background, because I think she probably didn't just do it out of her own, say, revenge, as we heard yesterday, but I think she got some kind of hint, at least a hint, if not a "command" to do it. This will allow us to question the ministers and others. But apparently not here in the National Assembly. I will support and we will support this decision, but the decision will not be adopted. The coalition protects its ministers, no matter how bad they do. He protects his people, even if they are accused of crimes, although some say until they are convicted, they are innocent, which of course applies to those in the coalition. For those who are in opposition, this does not apply. And maybe another time when there's more time, even a more specific case. In short, we will support this, but even if we will not discuss it here, the matter is submitted to the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana on 7 January of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The President of the Government also answered my question in this sense, in that the invitation to tender did not take place because the first four were not in accordance with the rules. So I also told him it wasn't true. When I read here that this was even in line with the audit department in the European Commission and the European Commission gave a positive agreement on all four calls, it turned out that those who prepared the response to the government simply lied. In fact, it seems that in this government coalition for this saying, "if you lie, you also steal," they now say, "lie, steal, and it's easier for you." This is now a new paradigm also because it was misinterpreted and that this is not true, because the European Commission has confirmed that this is not true, that all four calls were made in accordance with the law, that it had only the concerns of the one who also prepared the calls - Andrej Jerina - earlier at SVRL, then as an accounting judge and now as interested in Gaspari to take these funds to another resort. It is therefore essential that we also make this debate in order to make a section of what is done and to determine in the National Assembly which operational programmes will not be able to be implemented by the end of 2013 and that the sixth call for proposals will also be made for those 90 million remaining on this operational programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u246	Can we vote? We are voting on the proposal by Mr Franz Puksic that the assembly decide on a proposal for a decision to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Mr Puksic's question on the use of European funds. We're voting. Sorry, I'm fixing it again. We're moving to the vote. I'm giving you a sign to start the vote. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[For the vote was 31]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the third proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the statement by the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, Prof. Verice Trstenjak. In your own name, Mr. Jelinčič? In his own name, Mr. Jelinčič. Would anyone like to do it first on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. In fact, in this debate we should speak more broadly, not only about Mrs Verica Trstenjak, but about how the Prime Minister and this government intervenes in the public media and how they determine what will be published and what will not be published. Even such controversial televisions as the West.si are already under the "command" and under the supervision of Mr Pahor and his pilots who allow: this statement in a particular complex is published, but not or these people who speak to us will be published, the statements of others who say otherwise will not be published. This is unsustainable, Slovenia is sinking into some kind of media compulsion that we have never known before. Despite hearing in the previous mandate that there is no media freedom, international institutions have found - international institutions, not government, Slovenian - that media freedom is now significantly lower than it ever was. In Slovenia, the level of democracy is falling, freedom of the media and statements and speeches is shrinking, and we can expect that in a short period of time the sentences will simply be banned, except for the thanks of our beloved President of the Government and those around him. I therefore feel that it is imperative to talk about this matter, to pour pure wine and above all that people will hear and see what Slovenian media do not allow them because of censorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, you know that even if we vote on your proposal, it will be possible to discuss the Government's response to the statement made by the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, Prof. Verica Trstenjak, as requested. Anybody else want some? I am making a proposal which I have just read on behalf of Mr Jelinčič for the vote. I'm opening the vote. 71 Members and Members are present. 27 Members and Members voted against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] The proposal is not accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Lukšić to the question of Mr Zvonka Lah on co-financed investments in primary education and pre-school education. Mr. Lah, please, on your behalf? Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Lah, in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I asked Mr Luksic a question already in November, but he was gone twice. He said yesterday that he was in Vienna at the previous meeting and he looked at how Austrians are solving the problem of preschool education and how much more money they spent in neighbouring Austria for investments in public institutions to help solve this financial crisis. He himself agreed that there was a substantial lack of money - given that there were significantly more children born than there were years ago - and that some projects that had been announced and approved in 1999 had not yet been built. That's why I think, because in the ministry for the next few years, they only have €1.7 million for 17 projects - that's almost nothing. I think that the problem is so acute that a broader debate on this issue should be held here, because in a few years or even next year we will be in serious trouble in this area. A few meetings ago, the minister declared that this was a matter of municipalities, not a state, but I don't think that's true. If the State imposes certain tasks on the municipalities, it must also provide financial resources after the end. This is not the case, and if this does not change, then the congregations will have to resign. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the establishment of these public institutions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Cernač will explain his voice on his own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u251	I will support this debate myself. In particular because I think it would be necessary to give some guidance to the ministry in this debate. The municipalities are in fact left to themselves and to their own ingenuity or in most cases to be in charge of providing basic conditions for primary and kindergarten education because there are no resources. A million 700,000 euros at national level is small. At the same time, there are funds in the Ministry's budget itself. Remember only one scandalous information from December last year, when an official at the Ministry, so that the item did not remain unexhausted, carried out a procedure for the purchase of some equipment laptops and cameras for all schools in Slovenia with which they had nothing to do with it, amounting to EUR 3 million. 3 million euros for unnecessary equipment! This money would build at least one modern school, a necessary school, not to mention that, given the number of children who remained before kindergarten last September, it is necessary to build 40 kindergartens in Slovenia or to amend legislation in such a way that it is possible to apply extended preschool protection activities. Nothing happens. We are static, the funds are "scrambled" for unnecessary programmes, funds that are in the budget and are not earmarked for what is absolutely necessary. Many resources could be obtained from environmental protection, from the rehabilitation of buildings, from the thermal rehabilitation of buildings, of course by appropriate reallocation within the framework of what the Ministry has at its disposal. And I think that this debate on this issue would be necessary because it is in the interest of the people we are sitting in the National Assembly in particular. It's not just the ministry's purpose and bureaucrats. [[....]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] That's where they're sitting. [[...]] The aim of the ministry and officials is to do as much as possible with the resources and resources they have at their disposal, but not to "shut" the money that would otherwise remain unexploited. That is why I will support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u252	Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We turn to the vote on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Luksic, to the parliamentary question of Zvonka Laha regarding co-financed investments in primary education and pre-school education. We're voting. There are 67 in attendance, 27 in favour, 39 in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal is not accepted. We are moving on to the proposal of Mr Györek to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of Mr Miran Györek, on the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Trža. In this regard and two other proposals, this is the response of the Minister, who has resigned today, but has not yet been accepted in the National Assembly, so I propose that we carry out this vote unless Mr Györek thinks that there is no need for a vote. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Given that today's breakup was a little unexpected, it is true that Mr Minister is still Minister, so my question remains relevant. And since this is an extremely pressing problem, it is the gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets that I think this problem deserves attention in the National Assembly. Above all, what I have now told the former Minister almost already today is that there is a reasonable suspicion that the government is secretly negotiating behind closed doors and that the interest of capital has reached that limit of destructive madness, which no one believes is even possible. This is a total disaster in the Gulf of Markets. And that is why to all of us, who will be silent and will not accept this initiative, that if there is a good time at all, we are discussing and trying to prevent it, I can say that, as sheep, they are following the rulers of today's policy, both in Slovenia and Italy, and that the European Union does not really respect our national interests, but follows its failed energy policy. Sometimes I wonder whether it makes sense to give initiatives and questions to opposition Members at all because, as we see, practice shows that they are empty, that they are never accepted. But in this case, I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to take the matter very seriously and to make a decision in favour of my proposal, because when it is too late, you will still regret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you. He wants to explain his voice to Mr. Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me remind you of some facts. The proposal tabled by my fellow Member deserves a debate in the National Assembly, for the Minister himself has promised to appoint a special group of prosecutors to prosecute the fraud of the documents submitted by Italy to Europe in obtaining and granting this credit. This has not happened, nor have we Members, nor citizens, nor citizens received feedback. Since this is an extremely sensitive area of environmental risk, the safety of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia will also be reduced if this project is implemented. I also need to inform you that the Maritime Members' Club has discussed this. We're of the same opinion that this doesn't belong in this place, at least I think. Those who were there, we have certainly expressed this will. I would like to say that if you do not support this debate in the National Assembly today, you are somehow issuing national interests. Slovenia does not want this gas terminal in the Gulf of Markets, nor do we want to reduce the quality of life that we live there. What this will mean for the Primors and Primors, you can judge for yourself, because also the water flora and favni will be completely destroyed. Not to say what a challenge this will be, perhaps, for some terrorist organisation that will want to make a beautiful fireworks in this part of Slovenia. So press "yes"!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with the content presented by my colleague Györek. However, I will not vote in favour because we have recently discussed this and we have adopted even a resolution imposing on the Government what is actually proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. So the commitment that came from the National Assembly is very clear. And - that's true - we all expect the government to follow those commitments and report on it to the National Assembly. This time, therefore, I do not think it makes sense for us to repeat the debate that has recently taken place in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I am voting on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question posed by Mr Miran Györek concerning the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 Members and Members voted against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal by Member Mirano Petka to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, concerning concessions for the exploitation of forests. Mr. Friday, in your name?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u259	Yeah, that's right, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u260	In my own name. I'm just asking. Who wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. It is two and a half years from the amendment of the Forest Act, which allows mountain and hill farms and mountain and hill farmers to receive preferential concessions for management in state forests. In those two years no farmer has been granted the benefit provided for in the law. The minister also explained in detail where the obstacles were. In the Minister's reply, we also noticed that in 1996 a significant error was made to grant concessions to forest economies for up to 20 years, which is until 2016. And this is also one of those fundamental obstacles that cannot be fulfilled by this law. Of course, concessionary, large forest economies in Slovenia, some country in the country and without their consent nothing can be done in this area. That is why I think it would be good to open a debate on this issue in order to familiarise ourselves with the contracts concluded by the State or the Forest Economy Fund, as some claim that much more is being cut in the Slovenian forests, the concession forests than the concession fees paid to do so. I think there is no reason not to support this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u262	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. We are voting on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the question of Mr Petk on concessions for the exploitation of forests. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We turn to the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič regarding the interference with freedom of research work. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I asked the minister what he would do in the light of the warnings given by microbiologist Dr. Gorazd Pretranar regarding the waterworks or microbiological inadequacies of water in water. The Minister replied that he would not act against a researcher, in this case a microbiologist, but that he did not agree with the way in which the public was informed. In fact, he said that the inspection was the body that could act, while the Coper Health Care Authority had no possibility of action. Dr. Pretnar, through a press conference, I think he's given the right information. While the Minister considers that he should inform the health inspection immediately before the press conference. I think the message itself was correct, because it also informed the public. Why do I think we should hold a debate on the Minister's response? The Minister said that an inspection should be notified, but he also told us that the Institute for Health Protection and the Institute for Health Care Maribor found [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u264	Colleagues and colleagues, please allow Mrs. Jeraeva to speak to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u265	Colleagues and colleagues, please allow Mrs. Jeraj to speak to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u266	There's nothing wrong with the water in the water. [[...]] I hope that if these two authorities were informed that they could only act, Dr Pretnar would reply that they have different information, that the water is adequate and that there are no problems. As a result, they would not have been removed from the waterworks, and the Minister would have done nothing and done nothing because he would have found that he had received an answer from the official institutions that everything was fine with the water. I think we should discuss this and ask ourselves whether health inspectors are doing their work properly and like all the citizens and citizens we pay, whether we deserve it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I no longer see any proposal for explanations of vote. I therefore propose to the vote that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Borut Miklavčič, to Alenka Jeraj's question on interference with freedom of research. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I propose that Member Miran Györek decide at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Karl Viktor Erjavac to the question of how to manage and secure regional municipal waste landfills. In your name, Mr. Györek? Here you go. Who's in the letter? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I will not talk again about the meaning of these initiatives and questions. Again, the problem is of national importance. As an example, I listed a specific landfill or dump in Prekmurje, Puconci. But he fixed me up by himself, now almost ex-Minister. These are huge amounts of asbestos plates, saloon plates that are stored illegally, without control. It's pollution to the extreme limits of groundwater. Besides, now the former minister says the analysis shows otherwise, but that's not the case. Independent analyses show completely different values and therefore it is reasonable to suspect that this is happening to falsify the value of pollution - not only in Prekmurje but also probably across Slovenia from other landfills. I think this issue deserves more consideration. Somebody's gonna say, dumpsters, garbage and garbage cans; we've seen, even the minister's been shot for that even though it's not just that. So this is a broader problem and I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take the matter seriously and support my initiative to have a broader hearing in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I don't see any more interest in explanations of vote. I put to the vote the motion for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question posed by Mr Miran Györek on the management and insurance of regional municipal waste landfills. We're voting. There are 70 present, 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on Dr. Vinko Gorenak's proposal to hold a debate at the next session on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Karl Viktor Erjavac to the question of the spatial placement of the third development axis of the section from Velenje to joining the existing Ljubljana-Maribor motorway. I do not see any interest in the language of the voice, so we are voting on this proposal. There are 69 in attendance, 27 in favour, 41 in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] The proposal is not accepted. We are moving on to the proposal of Mr Sreč Friend that the assembly decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majde Širc to the question of Mr Friend's Member of Parliament on the allocation of funds to the media. On behalf of the delegation? Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What's this all about? In April 2009, the regular public project call for co-financing of programming content for the public media was launched. This invitation was later withdrawn and the Minister added to point 2 which lists eligible candidates for the invitation, including legal persons. However, they have forgotten to correct the tendering conditions in point 5 below, which sets out the conditions for obtaining these funds. Thus, in the end, there were unjustifiable funds, as shown by the list of allocations, which is four unwarranted candidates. This is a €150,000 fund, and the joint tender was "heavy" for €2 million. When I asked the Minister why she did not repeat this invitation or why she did not want to acknowledge this error, she said that the Commission had submitted a report. If we read the Commission's report, it wrote its report on one sheet of A4 format and the explanations are about: the projects are more or less compatible with all the tendering conditions. Very funny! I also asked the Minister why he tolerates the illegal use of RTV subscriptions, because we know that all those who watch TV pay for it. At the regional television station RTV Ljubljana, the regional program Koper, we can only watch the Italian program in Italian. We can't even give Slovenian subtitles that much. This same group of journalists shoots for the needs of the minority, living in Croatia, also broadcasts in Croatia, with our money because Croats don't give a single kuna. The Minister agrees with that. As part of this, I have proposed a broader debate in the National Assembly, because it is unacceptable that we are exposed: for the first time, to travel a minority, which we believe is what we think is going on, and I would like, when I am looking at the national programme of the regional programme RTV Koper, if speaking is already presented in Italian, subtitles in Slovenian, and vice versa, when the Slovenian programme is, of course, subtitles in Italian. I think that's right. If we look at Hungarian programs, for example Bridges - Hidak, this practice is regular. So if there is any honesty in you, you will support this debate. The Social Democrats included comments on the invitation to tender, and they themselves had a question for the Minister, who was asked why they share millions at home, or at some other invitation. They didn't get a satisfactory answer, neither did they. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u271	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Grill, in his own name? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grill, on your behalf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal, because I myself have not understood the correct answer to this question, which is more than justifiable. I myself have asked the Minister of Shirca a question concerning the call for proposals, on which there have been a lot of comments, and the criticisms, particularly those that have applied, have been unduly eliminated. It has also given us somehow to understand that there were a number of political pressures at the time of this call. And on that basis, they got the money from those who didn't actually qualify for it. And also on my question yesterday, where I also asked her if she wants and thinks to provide some additional funds, especially to those media or televisions, here I have in mind three televisions of special regional importance that have come to broadcast in digital form a television signal, which will each year have about 100,000 extra costs to ensure that they can even operate. Because, on the one hand, the legislation restricts such media that they cannot broadcast commercial programmes and, on the other hand, the ministry 'keeps them on the line' by restricting funds and sharing funds to those who are politically loyal to the government and the ministry, which is certainly not good. Such a discussion would therefore be useful here and, in particular, to help those media that need such assistance to share these funds substantially more transparently and justifiablely in the coming year or so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u273	Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. To vote, I propose that the National Assembly, at its next meeting, hold a debate on the response of Minister of Culture Majda Širca to the question of Mr Friend's question on the allocation of funds to the media. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I am putting to the debate the proposal of Mr Likar's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs to the issue of saving public authorities. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. The Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission moved to new business premises last year and also hired 13 new employees. This increased its operating costs by as much as 51% compared to 2008. I propose that we vote on a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue of non-economic spending of the country during the financial and economic crisis, such as the rental of commercial premises by the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, which costs taxpayers about 30 000 per month; that the price per square metre of rent is much higher than the rent for the most expensive locations in Ljubljana, and that it has moved out of business premises owned by a country for which it had no need to pay nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u275	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In a personal name? No, no, no. I put to the vote the motion for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, to the Parliamentary question of the Council of Likar as regards the saving of state authorities. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I am putting to the debate the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Borut Miklavčič to the business of Lekarna Ljubljana. On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you very much. In the last month we have witnessed many articles in almost all media dealing with the operations of Ljubljana pharmacies. Here are the irregularities, both by taking away the concession from the private pharmacy, which was taken away from the Municipality of Ljubljana, but all of this relates mainly to the operation of Ljubljana pharmacies and the desire to create profits at the expense of sick people. I have asked Mr Miklavčič a question, whether he is aware that the operation of these pharmacies is illegal, that they are placing on the market medicines which do not have permission to sell in essence medicines that are made in Poland and that it is more than obvious, and the Agency for Medicinal Products also agrees that this is illegal and also contrary to all pharmaceutical standards. This may also be particularly harmful for patients, as such a way of selling, marketing, as is done by Ljubljana’s pharmacies, increases the use and use of medicines, which certainly has negative effects on the body. Minister Miklavčič agreed that this is illegal, but that it is a matter of competent institutions to act. I do not think that this is the case, so it would be appropriate to examine all of these irregularities, which have been discovered by the public from day to day, and to discuss this in the National Assembly, to examine what legal gaps existing legislation has, that these irregularities will no longer be the subject of an amendment to existing legislation, especially in view of the forecast that the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities will change in 2011, so that such shortcomings are also noted that such an anomaly would not occur. Once again, I would like to point out that the sale of medicines in such a way that it misleads the sick people in the hope that the drugs will contribute to better health - that it is unethical, harmful, and above all that these profits, which have been generated by the Ljubljana drugstores, are then, of course, forwarded to the City of Novo Mesto and again, the respected coalition, the Court of Auditors has found that they have been used in a non-transparent manner. That means someone knows where, but there's no response. Here you can see once again the duality of both the government and the coalition as well as the Municipality of Ljubljana. Let us talk openly about these matters here, and then see what we can do to benefit our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u277	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? No, no, no. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič regarding the business of Lekarna Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I am putting to the debate the proposal of Mr Mir Petk that the assembly at the next meeting decide on the response of Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, regarding the purchase of the vaccine against the new flu. On behalf of the delegation? Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. In your name, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much. When the new flu appeared, Slovenia reacted relatively quickly, but not quite appropriate, but not economically. We ordered 800,000 doses of the vaccine, and about 100,000 or 102,000 Slovenians were vaccinated, and many more will not be vaccinated. So it's a ratio of 8:1. Taking into account the change in the contract reached by the Minister to reduce these doses by 30%, we still remain at 560,000 doses. And the ratio is 5:1; in short, it is a huge imbalance, a disproportion of the ordered and used vaccine. The contract with GSK is still not public; there are still many strangers. On the other hand, yesterday we heard that they had already published a contract with Novartis in Italy and the Italian public was very surprised. On the other hand, we do not know what assessments were based on ordering so much vaccine and they obviously had the main word of a pharmaceutical factory here, not the State of Slovenia that ordered it. On the other hand, we have the case of the Council of Europe Assembly requiring an investigation into the fact that the pharmaceutical industry obviously had a decisive impact on the declaration of the pandemic. That is why I think it would be good for us to have a discussion about this, but above all it would be healthy for us to have a discussion in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Friday. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal for this debate. The matter is going in the wrong direction because the minister made sure that Slovenian citizens were protected from the flu if they wanted to. Citizens who did not want to protect themselves were cancelled, so the vaccine was left. Don't laugh because it's serious. On the other hand, it all showed that the epidemic would be significantly wider to spread. I'm asking you what you'd do if there was a wider epidemic to get sick, for example, 200 or 300,000 people, and about 5,000 people would die if we didn't get the vaccine, and if we didn't have enough vaccine to protect ourselves. I think it was the right thing to do, though expensive. But it would be economical, you know, if we didn't buy anything from the vaccine, and then we'd count the dead after the outbreak. This matter is not simple, and it is better that it cost a few million dollars than it would have cost people to die if the epidemic were to spread. But no one knew what would happen to her, and we had the right to trust the World Health Organization, which predicted the pandemic, which means that we also had a sudden start, and luckily it stopped. It's better if it was a cost, but we didn't have the dead, as if it weren't for the vaccine, and people and fellow citizens would die because we didn't have a chance of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I also believe that it would not be wrong to hold this debate. Although the amount of vaccine purchased was now too large, I agree with the fact that it was not possible to predict the extent to which this epidemic or pandemic would be present in Slovenia. But the problem lies in the other bush or the rabbit is stuck in the other bush. Why is there so much vaccine left? Because at the time of the initiation of vaccination in Slovenia, only certain institutions were able to vaccinate only certain chosen ones, which in fact had a privileged position on this account, so that they could charge the price of the service itself. It means that only individual health establishments could be entitled to additional resources on this account, and all those who could also do so did not, of course, have these opportunities. I am sure that if all those institutions that are professionally qualified could be vaccinated, there would also be a significant number of people ready to be vaccinated, and perhaps not as sick in Slovenia as they were. Last but not least, we don't have that information, because a lot of people who got sick about it, and because they didn't do tests, they don't even know about it. Thank God that there have been no more victims or fatalities, but it is possible to draw lessons from this debate that in such cases it should be done in a completely different way than in this particular one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I put to the vote the motion for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to the question of Mr Petk's question on the purchase of the vaccine against the new flu. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 21 Members and Members voted in favour, up to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal is not accepted. Finally, I am putting to the debate the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetnik, on the issue of increasing unemployment. Doesn't anyone want to explain their voice? I'm making a motion for a vote. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 23 Members and Members voted in favour, against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] The proposal is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item, which will be adjourned by the 13th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
