ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Silva Črnugelj, Tadej Slapnik, Alojz Potočnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak after 2 p.m., Matjaž Zanoškar, Milan Gumzar from 3 p.m. on, László Göncz after 3 p.m., Zvone Černač from 6 p.m. on, Janez Ribič and Miran Jerič until the vote. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION RELATING TO THE "REFERENCE OF NEW ENVIRONMENTS WHICH HAVE BEEN RECOGNIZED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE ON THE LAW ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE ARBITARIAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA". The draft decision was tabled by a group of 37 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Janez Janša, mag. Happy Zerjava. There was a deal I didn't know about. The text shall be by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We are at a time when we have stepped deeply into the other half of the referendum campaign on the arbitration agreement on the border with Croatia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we find that unfortunately there is very little talk about the content of the arbitration agreement, that we do not have an argument and, above all, that we do not speak patiently. Those who are against the arbitration agreement — and we are trying to prove this through arguments — have recently witnessed many personal judgments of value. I've protested this myself, but I want to take this seriously again. Those who are clearly and loudly opposed to the arbitration agreement are not humble. So we're not sneaky hypocrites. We're not unreasonable, we're not super-Slovaks, and we're not supermen. All it is is that we think logically and with our heads. I hope that the times of unity, that is, the times when we must all think as political leaders, are behind us. There is no one and only saving right. There are about as many opinions or opinions as there are people in this world. That is why, in this place, I appeal for a little more tolerance and respect for all the debaters I have for the arbitration agreement on the border with Croatia. This call is addressed to both parties. So, all of them. Respectable advocates of the arbitration agreement! We're scared in the Slovenian People's Party. It is our fear that, like no more times in history, but this time exclusively by our own fault, the fault of our authority, the Slovenians will lose part of their territory, part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This fear is legitimate, and, in our opinion, according to the texts of the arbitration agreement, it is also highly justified. The Slovenian national territory has been in danger since the beginning of the history of the Slovenian nation and has always been the subject of attempts to conquer and exploit the smallness of our nation. What assurance do we have that this time it will be no different that we will not lose part of our precious and already relatively small territory again, and we must leave it to Croatia, which is, after all, nothing in my recent history — you get nothing from the Slovenian territory on the Istrian peninsula. We are convinced that such an arbitration agreement is once again losing part of the territory. Part of that territory, which was undisputed Slovenian at the time of Slovenia's independence. The history of the Slovenian people will include a new milestone in the section of the national territory and borders, unfortunately again to the Slovenes in the only known direction, towards the loss of the national territory. I guess that's clear to everyone. The Republic of Italy made it clear to us before yesterday that it is no longer a factor in the strategic negotiations on gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. That the gas terminal will be simple if Slovenia puts itself on its head. Respectable. It just can't be a coincidence. This week, Italy said everything with this gesture. Only one message can bear this new circumstance. So Italy knows that Slovenia will no longer be a maritime state after the arbitral tribunal's judgment. What prevents us from rejecting the arbitration agreement at the referendum, really? The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the delimitation of the territorial sea between countries across the coasts provides for the application of the principle of equidistant or central line. This principle shall not apply unless States otherwise agree or one of the countries does not refer to a historical address or special circumstances. In the case of the latter, under international law, we have quite a few possibilities for demarcating the Gulf of Piran. The first option is to apply the principle of the historical Gulf, which, of course, needs to be proved. To prove, therefore, that the Republic of Slovenia and its previous entities have consistently and continuously exercised sovereignty over the Gulf, in which other countries have not opposed it. In this case, Croatia would be entitled to a narrow coastline. And the sea in the Gulf splits with a straight line. The second option is to divide the Bay of Piran into the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia and the internal waters of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the State should agree to take into account the specific circumstances, historical, economic, security, and, in particular, the principle of fairness, which would result in the shift of the central line towards the Saudi peninsula. I'm sorry we didn't agree on that. The third option is condominium, which means co-management of the Gulf and sovereignty over the narrow coastline, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. There is a fourth option, that is, the delimitation of the territorial sea, which establishes an equal regime for inland waters and land. This should also take account of the specific circumstances justifying the departure from the midline. Therefore, none of the options listed could be the result of an arbitral tribunal ruling on the basis of an arbitration agreement, does provide Slovenia with the entire Piran Bay or does not provide the situation at 25. 6. 1991. Let's see what it's like to enter international waters. According to the geographical characteristics of the Slovenian coast and taking into account the already defined border with Italy, the only solution that allows Slovenia access to the open sea is the corridor. However, with regard to the identification of the corridor, we have some options. The first option is to jointly exercise sovereignty over the corridor, something like a condominium. That would be the so-called Sui generis regime. In this case, arrangements should be made for the economic exploitation of the seabed and subterranean water tower. Another possibility is that the corridor would have open sea status. In this case, both countries should waive their sovereignty over the corridor. However, arrangements should be made for the economic exploitation of the water tower, seabed and underground. The third option is the separate exercise of sovereignty over the corridor. One State exercises sovereignty and jurisdiction over the water tower in this case and another State exercises sovereignty and jurisdiction over the seabed. The fourth option, however, is a corridor through Croatian territorial waters in which a more favourable regime would apply, for example, from a harmless transition, the so-called transit regime. This regime is more favourable because it must not be interrupted by the State and, in addition to the right of navigation, it also includes the right to fly and sail submarines. In all the options listed above, which could be the result of an arbitral tribunal's judgment based on an arbitration agreement, we do not see any possibility that this corridor would be exclusively owned by Slovenia, which again does not guarantee the situation on the 25th day. 6. 1991. We are therefore firmly convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that the exit to the international waters of the Adriatic through Slovenian territorial waters depends on the establishment of a maritime border with the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of a maritime border will be carried out in accordance with the arbitration agreement only in accordance with the rules and principles of international law, without taking into account other specific circumstances. Unfortunately, in adopting the Law on the Ratification of an Arbitration Agreement, we have completely ignored the Constitutional Court's decision on an arbitration agreement. It is true that, at the last point of its decision on the arbitration agreement, the Constitutional Court found that it is not in breach of the Constitution itself, which I do not agree with, but the decision is binding regardless. It is also binding in all points of the saying and not only in the last. According to the position of the Constitutional Court, Slovenia undoubtedly has direct access to the open sea. The starting point of the arbitration agreement is that the arbitral tribunal will determine the course of the maritime border and the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. The latter is completely different from what the Constitutional Court has found. I believe in the Constitutional Court and not those who avoid and ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In particular, I believe him because the rapporteur was a judge, a judge who prepared a proposal for a decision by the Constitutional Court, which states that the Basic Constitutional Charter states that Slovenia has direct access to the high seas, a judge who is a professor of international law, an experienced diplomat and a member of a number of international bodies and, last but not least, a member of the Strategic Council for the Foreign Policy of the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs and who was not on the payroll, by the way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the Constitutional Court has made clear that "the judgment of the arbitral tribunal may lead to Slovenia not having direct access to the open sea on its basis, which constitutes a violation of constitutional provisions, so that it may consider amending the Basic Constitutional Charter and the Constitution before the ratification of the arbitration agreement". Your Honor! The fact that we are taking too much risk with such an arbitration agreement is noted by a large number of eminent Slovenian lawyers and other important Slovenian personalities. While, on the other hand, among the legal experts who advocate such an arbitration agreement, only those who are on the payment sheet of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and who have, after all, participated in the preparation of this agreement. It is logical for the authors to praise the agreement, but it is necessary to know that they are authors and are not independent. Your Honor! We Slovenians are a seductive and patriotic people, proud of their history, their language, their culture, their roots and many more. As Slovenians, who come from rural areas in the vast majority, we are well aware of the importance of the land and its property. I do not know a Slovenian who, in a dispute with a neighbour for just a square metre of his land, would take such a risk that the court does not give it back to him as the Government accepts by this agreement as the whole of the Bay of Piran and the right to free access to the open sea, to the territory of Dragonja and, in particular, to the territory of Hotiz. Therefore, we face today again each of our arguments, and Slovenians and Slovenians will decide in the referendum what chapter of history they will enter their decision into. However, we call on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to vote in the referendum against the arbitration agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Janez Janša. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly. President of the Government. Members and members of the Government. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Since the General Assembly, in our view in an unconstitutional manner, ratified an arbitration agreement or arbitration agreement to establish a border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, a number of new circumstances have emerged. Two of these are essential. A few weeks ago, we first heard a statement by the Prime Minister of Slovenia, Mr Pahor, saying twice explicitly that Croatian counterpart Jadranka Kosor, the Croatian Prime Minister, promised him, in an interview, the territorial exit of Slovenia into international waters or territorial contact of the Slovenian sea with international waters. Another such new situation that has arisen and is probably even more important or fatal is the fact that after several months the Slovenian public was finally informed of the content of the Act on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The content of this law has not been published in the Slovenian media at the time of the adoption, nor has anyone informed the National Assembly in more detail about how Croatia ratified this arbitration agreement. It was only said that 20% of the members of the Croatian Parliament voted in favour, thus reaching 90% in support, far more than two-thirds. Only seven of them were against it. And it was talked about Croatia adopting a unilateral statement denying Slovenia the right to territorial exit into international waters. When the whole text of the law appeared in the Slovenian public a few days ago, with which Croatia ratified this arbitration agreement, it became clear that this law does not contain just technical articles, nor does it have any minor unilateral implementation attached to it, but some shocking new facts have also been revealed. But let's go first. After Mr Pahor, President of the Government, publicly stated that the Croatian President of the Government had promised him that under this agreement it would be assumed in itself that Slovenia would have a territorial exit into international waters, Croatia's sharp denial followed immediately, both in the official statement of their Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the Croatian Parliament's statement by the Croatian Prime Minister. Both statements, both a statement by the Croatian Prime Minister and an official communication from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have made our Prime Minister a lie. The reply followed by our foreign ministry was unclear, medelas and did not respond to the claims made in the statement made by the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is said to have been a direct reason for the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs' communication to the Croatian Parliament's brother-in-law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement. And when we read this law, it turns out that the truth is probably the exact opposite of what the President of the Slovenian government claimed. That the Croatian Government has not promised and assured Slovenia when agreeing on this agreement that Slovenia has indisputable territorial contact or exit into international waters, Slovenia has agreed that Croatia can inform the Swedish Presidency of the European Union and also the United States of America with its position and statement. For when we read the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which we also distributed as additional material, and can verify these words, in the law, in the text which is an integral part of the Croatian Parliament's Law on ratification, we also read: "In view of the agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed in Stockholm on 4 November 2009, the Republic of Croatia will give the following statement of content which the Croatian and Slovenian sides jointly informed the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States on the agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 October 2009: nothing about the agreement between the Government of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia will be understood as agreeing to Croatia on the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea. As agreed with the Slovenian side, the Republic of Croatia makes this declaration after the signing of the arbitration agreement, but before the ratification of the arbitration agreement in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia." Now with this statement that the Slovenian side was aware of and that the Slovenian Government and the Croatian Government also took note of the Presidency of the European Union and the United States, Croatia does not deny Slovenia only the right to territorial exit into international waters, denies it the right to any territorial contact with international waters. If this contact is only on one point, of course this is not the way out. What is particularly surprising and shocking is this part of the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which speaks of the Slovenian and Croatian governments jointly informing the Presidency of the European Union and the United States of this declaration. We have been trying to get a very clear answer in the past days, both from the Foreign Minister and from the Prime Minister of the Government, about what's at stake here. Yesterday we tried to get this answer very clearly from the Foreign Minister on the Committee on Foreign Policy, where the Minister said that Slovenia had never agreed to the content of this statement, that it had accepted its statement and that, not particularly together, the Slovenian Government had never expressed it to anyone or to any third party, nor to the Presidency of the European Union or to the United States. However, we did not ask the Minister after that; we did not ask the Minister for content, but rather for a form that is crucial in this case, and we have not yet received an answer from him or from the President of the Government. Moreover, in the middle of the debate, the chairman of the committee forcibly cut off the debate, put to the vote the decision you have here today and thus prevented us from arriving at a reply before this meeting. The working bodies are for the very specific clarification of the smallest details there, this cannot be done at the plenary session and this was prevented yesterday, although there was no need for this and although many more people have been reported for discussion. The Rules of Procedure have been violated and the decision we have today on the table with this committee, and which is likely to be read later, is illegal. It was accepted on the basis of a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Unusual nervousness has prevailed in the types of advocates of the arbitration agreement in those days when this ratification law adopted by the Croatian Parliament is read. There have started to be statements that, no matter how the Croatian declaration was adopted, this does not have any legal weight on arbitration, how this will not decide in any way how the order is irrelevant and so on. Before I go any further, let's see what we are or what you are, because you have done this with a simple majority, but without us, we have written ourselves in a Slovenian statement that is supposed to respond to this Croatian statement. When this arbitration agreement was ratified by the ordinary majority, you also adopted the following decision in Article 3 of this Act, which reads as "The Republic of Slovenia declares that it is the task of the arbitral tribunal to establish territorial contact between the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the open sea, in brackets, the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, that is, the preservation of the right of Slovenia to contact the open sea which it had on the day of its independence on 25 June 1991". If we leave aside the fact that this is an unfortunate formulation, because Slovenia had a territorial exit into international waters on 25 June 1991, it has not only had contact with the open sea, and we concentrate on the form of which this is referred to, we should read the following sentence, which says that the Republic of Slovenia is familiar with this statement or that it is communicated to the Republic of Croatia. In the law on ratification of this agreement, you have only written down this statement to the Republic of Croatia, to no one else, despite the strong backdrop of the Department of International Law, I believe, at the University of Ljubljana, which stands with all its weight behind this agreement. If I can sum it up. Croatia has incorporated elements in its Arbitration Act that relativise the unilaterality of this statement. In fact, the law stated that the Croatian and Slovenian governments have jointly informed the witness of the signing of the agreement, which is the Swedish Presidency, which is also signed under the agreement, as well as the United States of America, I do not know what the United States of America witnessed. The Slovenian side has always denied this, Croatia has written it down in law. I think the president of the government will also have to say what the role of this hidden witness is. It is even more important that Croatia has very skillfully involved in this procedure in the time in which it placed this declaration. And that the time of placement of this declaration has also been aligned with the Slovenian side because it says, as agreed with the Slovenian side, the Republic of Croatia shall make this declaration after the signing of the agreement, but before its ratification in both countries. If Slovenia had done the same and adopted similar formulations, then it might have believed the Slovenian Government's claims, which now says that Croatia has accepted one statement, Slovenia the other, none has any weight and will not have any effect on arbitration. That is not the case, the guidelines for the application of unilateral declarations or declarations and declarations, which also set out the cases in which such declarations have legal effects. These guidelines were adopted by the legal commission of the United Nations in 2006, and in these guidelines, if you read them, you will find a number of valid reasons why Croatia adopted this unilateral declaration in the way it was, and also wrote it in the way it was, and placed it in the time it was placed. The law states that such acceptance of a declaration is a disguised reservation, which in certain cases has legal weight. And this is not the opinion of any Slovenian profession, this is based on the views or guidelines of the legal commission of the United Nations in 2006. In Croatia, the whole situation and the legal situation were examined much more closely. Slovenia also passed the exam here. How is it possible that all this has happened, how is it possible that the Slovenian public, not from the government or from our correspondents reporting from the neighbouring country, has not been informed of the exact text adopted by the Croatian Parliament? In fact, it is not surprising to see, for example, statistics on reporting in Slovenian printed media on this issue from the day the referendum campaign began until yesterday. Some reporting and comment rules apply at this time. These rules are based on the principle of equality in the presentation of positions for and against and these rules are severely violated in Slovenian print media. Just a few details. Even the greatest plurality of these opinions is provided by the Freeman Journal24, because two thirds of the articles and contributions published in this newspaper at the time of the referendum campaign somehow sums up views for and against, is not defined. On the opinion page were published seven comments by the supporters of the agreement and two comments which contradict the agreement, there is much imbalance here, but this is still a real pearl in the Slovenian situation. Similarly, very few articles have been published in the Unreported Finances, including only two opinions, one for and one for and one for. In the evening, half of all contributions to the express support for the arbitration agreement were published, one quarter were against and one quarter were either neutral or neutral, so the ratio is 1:2. During this period, the diary published six comments, cheering for an arbitration agreement and no one against it. Of the 32 published articles, according to other contributions, only five represent views against all remaining for. The undeniable winner of this government agidprop is the daily Delo. So it's not a coincidence that former editor Dela simply switched jobs, but he's doing the same now that he's v.d. Director of the Government Communications Office. The work published contributions for and against the arbitration agreement in ratio 11:1. 11 contributions in support of the agreement and only one against. And in this period in this so-called Central Officer, Slovenian, I would say to the central government press, there was not a single comment against the arbitration agreement. Of the articles published on this subject, of the 65 members, 45 are in favour, only four are opposed. So in such a unilateral campaign, which of course violates all the principles and also sets out the Law on the Referendum Campaign, it is no wonder that the Slovenian public, and perhaps even the Slovenian government, overlooks the key act adopted by the Croatian Parliament on this subject and that we are not discussing this until weeks when this act was illegally ratified in the National Assembly and before the referendum. The new situation that has emerged in recent weeks after you have already ratified the arbitration agreement is also a change of attitude expressed in the performances of government representatives. Suddenly, we heard a full statement by both the President of the Slovenian Government, the Foreign Minister and some other members of the Government about how Slovenia does not have the Gulf of Piran today, does not have a territorial exit into international waters, and that any solution is better than the current situation. Of course that's not true. Slovenia today has legal and formally exactly the same territory and the same sea as it had at the time of Slovenia's independence. As far as the sea is concerned, Croatia did not deny this at the time of Slovenia's independence, the denial came later. However, these statements by the highest representatives of the Slovenian government create a state which in some way recognises Croatian unilateral steps. It's like someone who comes to lunch or plant potatoes on a neighbor's plot is already the owner of this plot. If Croatia has built shells in the Slovenian sea, it has not become the owner of this sea. The statements made by the Slovenian Government's top representatives in recent weeks, and this is in some ways acknowledged. I don't think she's ever experienced anything like this before. In order to make matters worse, the Government has also signed and the government majority ratified an agreement in this National Assembly, which also contains Article 10, entitled "Keeping the Current Status". After the government has said that the current situation is extremely unpleasant, that Croatia is practically the owner of half of the Gulf of Piran and that Slovenia does not have a territorial exit into international waters, the same government has signed an agreement which states in Article 10 that the title of the article is the maintenance of the current situation in the content of the article itself and imposes an agreement on this part of the arbitrators, I quote: "The arbitral tribunal may order any provisional measures which it considers necessary to preserve the current situation". Thus, to preserve the state of which the Slovenian government says it is extremely unpleasant. Understand who can! And as formerly said colleague Radovan Žerjav for this speaker, yesterday we also experienced some confirmation of how third countries view this event and how they are looking forward to the solution outlined by this arbitration agreement. Minister of Environment and Space Mr Žarnic met in Trieste with his colleague, who covers the same resort in the Italian government, and this said to him, "You told him, for us, the conversation is closed, the gas terminal will be built.".. At the same time, the same country has requested an extension of the deadline within which it will make its comments or reservations to the extension of the port of Koper. By reducing Slovenia's sovereignty at sea, of course, you are not only doing Croatia a service, you are also doing Italy a service. Italy is not neutral here. It must be openly acknowledged that these neutralitys have never been at this point since Slovenia’s independence. Italy has signed an agreement with Croatia on the delimitation of epicontinental belts in the Adriatic region behind Slovenia and Italy is obviously in the interest of excluding or weakening the economic competition of the port of Koper when it holds its own hands in its pockets. This is not only in the interest of the river, but also of Trieste. Indeed, this last move also shows when Slovenia simply renounces any right to comment on the establishment of a gas terminal in the Gulf of Markets. So, the loss of sovereignty at sea is not only an empty word and a dispute over such or other notions, but it is also a fundamental right of co-management in the Adriatic, co-decision on the routes of submarine pipelines, pipelines, gas terminals, etc. Italy could not have shown more clearly how it feels about the outcome of this arbitration that you ratified, than it did at this meeting in Trieste. And then there's our minister, and he's just stuck something in his camera, and now we're going to be looking at this situation. It'll help a lot. Another new situation has taken place in these last days. Representatives of the Slovenian Government have avoided drawing this result from the very beginning in their performances, in particular in their answers to the question of what this arbitration agreement will bring. Since it is a territorial solution, such a solution, or a solution as one imagines it, it is possible to draw, of course, always. In the last days — and this cost — Slovenian households received the text of the entire arbitration agreement at their home addresses, including the English text, I do not know why it was necessary, but no map of the material was attached to it. The people in that thing don't really understand anything. If the government believed what it had said at the outset, it would also be possible to draw it, and it was obviously not possible to do so, nor is it in this official material. Although it is a referendum decision where people simply need to be presented that the decision will also be qualified. It is even more interesting that government representatives have been strictly avoiding the deadline set out in the statement adopted by this Parliament or adopted by you when the arbitration agreement was ratified. This statement you wrote, I will quote once again "The Republic of Slovenia declares that it is the task of the arbitral tribunal to determine the territorial contact of my Republic of Slovenia with the open sea". For the last 10 days, unless the question has been raised five times, no government representative has spoken more about the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea, but only about the contact of Slovenia with the hard sea. But between these two formulations is the difference between night and day. Because contact can be anything. As the contact understands Croatia, it clearly wrote. With this understanding, she also informed the witnesses of the signing of the agreement with the consent of the Slovenian Government. However, how the Slovenian government understands this contact has not officially informed anyone and also in the public statements given to people in recent days and weeks, this formulation is avoided, so that the possibility of interpretation, once the result comes, if God does not grant this arbitration agreement ratified, endlessly large and you will speak, yes, because we have received the contact. We'll get the contact, of course. Also, a neighbor, who someone else marries in connection with the purchase of land between his plot and the public road, also gets some contact with this public road, the so-called service road, but it is not his property. Croatia has always been prepared, if Slovenia agrees to establish a border under international law, to add to this any decorations and accessories, any contacts, the most possible liberal crossings — not that it did not — because it knew exactly what bordering under international law meant. Slovenia never agreed to this until last year. So, at the end of the day, I appeal, given that, at least in the final stage of this referendum campaign, it is necessary to provide some Ferplai, a fair game for Slovenian voters and voters to use the concepts, as are officially recorded in these acts, and that there is no difference here. Thus, it will be possible to interpret one way or another the judgment of an arbitral tribunal if, as has already been said, God forbid, this agreement is confirmed at the referendum. The government coalition has taken full responsibility for any solution that comes out of this arbitration by ratifying this agreement, with a simple majority of this agreement, if this is worse than the situation as it was on the day of 25. 6. 1991. And then Slovenia had the entire Piran Bay and had an undisputed territorial exit into international waters. All that is less than that is damage to Slovenia. And those who have proposed such a solution will not be able to get rid of their responsibilities, not through a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Janji Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, the Honourable President of the Government with the ministerial assembly, the distinguished colleague and colleagues! At its 38th urgent meeting on 25 May 2010, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a decision on clarifying the new circumstances that the public was informed of following a call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee took note of the written opinions of the Rule of Law and the Government. On behalf of the proposer, a further explanation was given by the Vice-President of the Committee, Milenko Ziherl, and the opinion of the Government was presented by Minister for Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar. In the debate, representatives of opposition parliamentary groups stressed, inter alia, that the adoption of an arbitration agreement was important to the Government, not protecting Slovenia's vital interests, that it was misleading the public with its statements, leading an illegal referendum campaign and exerting pressure on media reporting on a biased basis — therefore the law should be rejected in the referendum. In its written opinion on the proposal for a decision, the Government does not respond to the questions and dilemmas raised in the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and that applicants wish to clarify the conflicting statements made by the President of the Government following the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement Act on TV Slovenia and in its reply to the oral question of Member Zvonet Černač. The law by which Croatia ratified the arbitration agreement provides that Croatia has made a unilateral declaration after the signing of the agreement on the content to be notified jointly by the Presidency of the Council of the EU and the United States on 27 October, which the Slovenian side has never denied. The same law also states that Croatia, in agreement with the Slovenian party, makes this declaration after the signature and prior to the ratification of the arbitration agreement, meaning that the time of the declaration was also agreed upon and that the President of the Government in advance knew and agreed with the unilateral declaration of Croatia. The opposition also said that the Slovenian law on ratification also contained a unilateral declaration, but Slovenia did not inform the EU Presidency and the US and did not obtain the consent of the Croatian side. That the Government had exceeded the Committee's conclusions in the negotiation of the arbitration agreement and had no mandate for such negotiations and therefore its conduct was unconstitutional. Representatives of the Government should always use the term "territorial contact" and not "stick" in future public performances, if they believe that this arbitration agreement brings about. The representatives of the coalition stressed, however, that the arbitration agreement for Slovenia is good, that it should be confirmed at the referendum and that citizens know precisely that the referendum decides on the way in which the decision is taken, not on the border itself. That there are no new facts and there are no new circumstances to which the public should be informed after the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement, which also shows the material for the convening of an extraordinary meeting which does not contain any real arguments and does not mention any new facts and circumstances. The main purpose of the opponents of this Agreement is to introduce confusion into the public debate at the time before the referendum. It is clear that the current opposition cannot accept the fact that the current government has reached a better starting point in the negotiations than all the government so far, even though they have tried to do so. Minister Žbogar said in response to the proposalers' findings that there is no additional, public or secret document to the arbitration agreement and that Slovenia and Croatia have not jointly notified the EU and US Presidency of the Croatian unilateral declaration, but the EU Presidency has only notified that the arbitration agreement is harmonised. He reiterated that no new circumstances had been mentioned in the drafting of the drafters, which would not have been known to members of the National Assembly, but also to the Slovenian public at the time of the ratification of the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly. Regarding the criticism of the possibility of a long-term arbitration procedure, he explained that arbitration procedures usually take place for about 3 years. The Committee voted on the Committee's proposal for an amendment to the proposal for a decision and adopted it after all the speakers had received the floor and the debate was closed. The amendment adopted, which was not opposed by any Member in the debate, is included in the updated proposal for a decision which is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Borut Pahor, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Please, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament. To remember later, although this does not seem essential to me, I have to respond to the alleged new circumstances that would require this debate. There are no new circumstances, all things have been clarified several times, but the decision will be taken by citizens and citizens 6. 6. It is so important that there is no debate in this assembly, even if some things happen again. First of all, it would be a very important new situation to realize that Slovenia and Croatia have jointly informed the witnesses — the Swedish Presidency of the European Union and the United States Government — that they are familiar with and agree with Croatia's unilateral declaration. The Swedish Ambassador to Slovenia, Mrs Ultvedt, denied yesterday that Croatia, together with Slovenia, the Swedish Presidency of the EU and the US, would take note of its unilateral statement. I quote, "The Parties have not notified us together.", at the end of the quote, she said and stressed that Sweden was only a witness in signing an arbitration agreement in Stockholm on 4 November. He also told the Committee the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I quote "We know that Croatia has said that it will make a unilateral statement and that they were also interested in Sweden being some kind of witness in this statement. We rejected that at the time, and we have never been informed together of any declaration."at the end of the line, the Swedish ambassador said. As soon as the representative or representative of the State Department does not call, we will also be able to hear the position of the United States, but that is enough because Sweden is the Presidency. The President of the Swedish Government was present as President of the European Council at the time of the signing of the arbitration agreement, and this is now another important fact in this discussion. Only the arbitration agreement signed with President Kosor, which was then ratified by the National Assembly, and which, hopefully, will also be adopted by the majority at the referendum, will determine the task for the arbitral tribunal and no unilateral statement. There's no doubt about that. Under the Vienna Convention, States may, in the course of the procedure, make reservations in the case of bilateral treaties, but they have no legal effect. There's no doubt about that. If and to the extent that Croatia insists on this, which it has insisted on all these years, namely that Slovenia cannot and cannot make formal contact with the open sea, de jure, it would not, of course, decide in its unilateral declaration in the ratification process. However, we did not agree that this statement and this position was attached to the agreement signed, we did not agree. It was a condition for our signature. And that's how it happened. So this discussion is over. Nothing new. Slovenia and Croatia have never jointly notified a harmonised statement to any of the witnesses, and that is what one of the witnesses has said formally today. Let's move on. One of the initiators said that today’s situation is legal and formal — if I understand correctly, it is in line with the declaration of the National Assembly, which we adopted before the time, I think, when ratifying the law on Croatia’s entry into NATO. If so, I ask this speaker why a brionic statement was needed if the situation is legally and formally regulated. Why did the cut-off date have to be mentioned again? Six? And if anyone is sure, although I am no longer that the Drnovšek-Račan agreement was such an achievement, why did he not insist on keeping it as a condition? Next, the Italian position was mentioned here without any need, as if the neighbouring country already knew the arbitral tribunal's decision, and since it knows this decision, it is already acting this way. By the way, the difference between the arbitral tribunal and The Hague is that in fact any of the third countries could be a foreign intervener in a proceeding and not in an arbitral tribunal. Keep a good eye on it. It's not important. And in the end, as I said, I have to respond immediately to the obvious to reject them once again and very clearly. Here someone asked why the government didn't attach the map. Because the map will attach its judgment to the arbitral tribunal. What's going to happen here is exactly what no one knows, because this will be decided by the court, except for one thing, we know that Slovenia will have contact with the open sea because this is imposed on the arbitral tribunal. This is the word "junction" in the original English language, the same as in the original or in the English translation of the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement. There is no doubt that territorial contact will be because Slovenia is, of course, a country, like other countries that have territory and, of course, the sea. So, with these seemingly new circumstances, we did very quickly. It is not true that anything would be done behind the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The government has been very conscientious in reaching an agreement that has put national interests into effect. One of the interns said he was scared. As a signatory to this Agreement, I am neither afraid nor ashamed. A lot of work would have been done. Slovenia has the opportunity to decide at the referendum on an arbitration agreement and on the future, which will have a fair border and an orderly relationship with this neighbour or the past, where there will be no formal border, especially at sea, and where we will witness incidents and conflicts. People will decide whether they are for the future or are for the past. And now the key question. You have the right to ask questions to the Government. But the government also has the right to ask you a question because it is a decision of such importance. I am referring here to the opposers who are sitting in this high congregation — not to those who make decisions at their own discretion — but to you who have different views. I'm asking you, what's the alternative? Here there were a number of instructions on how the Government should act in order to achieve what, according to the position of the proponents of this discussion, is a national interest. Where have you been for 18 years? Why haven't you reached that point yet? And especially if we don't go back because that doesn't make any sense, I'd like to ask you how you're going to proceed if an agreement is rejected, which you're appealing to most people. Do you agree that the actual situation, the de facto situation, is not as it was on Day 25. Six? Do you agree? This is obvious, so we want to re-establish it. If the arbitration agreement is rejected and no new agreement is reached very quickly, which I highly doubt — the circumstances in the event of rejection are unpredictable — then we will be witnessing the situation as it is. And if there's another decade or two left, it's actually going to become a de facto de jure. This is bad for us — that is perfectly clear. You will then give a different opinion in the debate, now I have the right to explain my position. Come in. Are — and you must say this today — if the arbitration agreement is rejected, you will understand that the questions of the predecessors in the Croatian documents in the European Union are simply because of President Kosor's statement, which she gave here in Ljubljana on 11 September and sent to the Swedish Presidency, enough reason for Slovenia not to block negotiations with Croatia, or will we immediately block Croatia's accession negotiations? It's getting thicker. We do not have this privilege, as we had in the 1990s or perhaps in the first half of this decade. It's getting thicker. Croatia is at the end of the negotiations and you must answer this question, not only us, we are answering your questions, but also to the public. If you say that the unilateral declaration made by Croatia on 11 September, when President Kosor visited Slovenia, is sufficient — that is when I achieved that it was adopted at the same time, and this is, of course, essential, after painful and very hard discussions that Croatia has also agreed to the Rehn2 Agreement. This is now all that needs to be explained to the public. Rehn2 was an agreement that Croatia did not wish to discuss since 16 June. But these are facts we all know. Then, in the firm negotiations, we came to the conclusion that Croatia had landed on Rehn2, which was ultimately set out in points 3 and 3b. Special contact of Slovenia with the open sea. It was a great success, a great success. I do not believe that it can be repeated, except that it could be obtained in a tense time that would be restored by possible blockage, more — and you are therefore obliged to explain whether you will expect a policy block after 6. 6. 2010 Right now? Is the Croatian government's statement enough to prevent such a blockade? Should this issue, as I hear, be settled before the signing of the accession treaty and until ratification in the National Assembly? Since most of the customers in this high house had the view that the border issue should be set before Croatia's entry? While I had a slightly different position before the elections, it was clear to me, through discussions with parliamentary parties, that if we want to have orderly relations, peace and, in particular, a fair border that will ensure this lasting peace, it is likely that the time to Croatia's entry into the EU should be used to somehow bring the neighbouring country to an agreement that is mutually beneficial. And for mutual benefit, it was an agreement made on Trakostian. We want to settle the border issue, you can continue negotiations, everything else then were the details that led to agreement 4. 11. 2009 I think that, then, here too, a high house, you are obliged to make a statement if there is no solution, however, to the way the border is determined, not only the border issue of this ratification of the accession treaty, in the event that Croatia closes the negotiations, because that is how you will conclude, will you then block Croatia? These are questions to be answered. You insist that the government clarify its position. We are obliged to clarify these views, because this is such an important issue, and we have some right to ask you a question. The question is, what's the alternative? This question is 10 days before the referendum, and you too are obliged to explain to the public what an alternative is. To avoid the unpredictable consequences of Slovenia returning to the first of the structural reforms that it has brought under the roof, and this is further consolidation of the fundamental elements of statehood, that these are not subject to conflict and that we can focus on economic and social issues. Easy. Here I can see that it attracts a smile. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have been dealing with the border issue for a very long time, that this has taken a very great deal of effort and that everyone must be aware that everyone who appeals against the arbitration agreement will need this time if the arbitration agreement is rejected, at very high doses. Why if we have a good deal? As it is said, instead of laughing and laughing, it is good to have some answer from your side, and we expect it today. What is the alternative to rejecting this arbitration agreement? I think we have the right to hear this. This is where they gave me, I hope I can read it. Mr Freden of the U.S. Embassy said today, if I see it correctly, as regards the joint statement, I quote, "The word common is completely wrong. We have never been informed together about the Croatian declaration." So perhaps it is right to say definitively that these fundamental objections that we have heard at the outset have been rejected. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I say to the governments and the majority of the National Assembly, which ratified this agreement, is neither fear nor shame. We know what the consequences are, to a large extent, the foreseeable consequences of an agreement that would be ratified. This would be part of an arbitral tribunal which would finally determine the de facto and de jure borders, in particular the de jure of course, even at sea. There is a contact between Slovenia and the open sea. We know that this would be the basis for lasting peace between countries, for co-existence, for excellent bilateral relations. We know that this would preserve the reputation of Slovenia, which, as a country that is able to solve the most difficult of all in a peaceful way, has also gone through this crisis through some regulation of this crisis, which is relatively successful, and allows it to continue its efforts not to go back and deal with Croatia, but to be able to fully focus on economic and social perspective issues. However, those who advocate a position against an arbitration agreement are obliged to tell us what the alternative is or what the future lies ahead of us. We are probably also entitled to hear on such an important subject as what the Slovenian policy will do if such an arbitration agreement is rejected if we have not been able to reach a different agreement in 18 years and if we are unlikely to be able to reach such an agreement in a short period of time. So, once again, the arguments cited by the opposition as reasons to be hidden, disguised as misleading, contrary to national interests, are rejected, not only by the words of the Slovenian Government, but by the words of the representatives of the governments who have witnessed this process. Once again, before I finish, I say that the Slovenian Government led the negotiations by wanting and having a key focus on a fair solution to the border issue, in mutual interest with the Republic of Croatia, because no forced border is a lasting and just solution. That we have come to this with a very great deal of suffering, with much time spent, but we have done the right thing to resolve this issue at the beginning of the mandate, because, while the time of negotiations and the conflict in the event of the blockade would mean probably unpredictable circumstances, not only in a political, economic and purely human sense, but perhaps in some other respects. So we've given this question an ad act and now we're waiting for people to come. I hope that people will reflect, of course, on their conscience, but that they will consider whether they want to in the future or want to in the past — in the future with a just border between countries. Of course, I bear this, as I said yesterday, infinite, boundless responsibility. Someone here has been talking about how easy it is to make these decisions. Only those in whom you firmly believe, after tests of knowledge, experience, and finally opportunities have been made to talk to a third party. Since it is not only a question of what our will is and how we view this issue, you must also convince neighbouring Croatia. Therefore, the Slovenian Government has rejected the obvious or new facts that are supposed to be known as unfounded and asks the opponents of this agreement what is the alternative. I think it is the duty of the proposers to say what is the alternative to this agreement if they urge people to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Good day to you all! We were just listening to the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, who was eccentrically lying. He said that the Swedish ambassador to Slovenia said that there was no agreement and a joint presentation on a particular declaration and that the Americans also said that. I doubt that the Americans would spit so much on neighbouring Croatia, which they actually appreciate more than Slovenia, and that Sweden would. The fact is that in the original text of the arbitrational, so-called — Croats correctly say the arbitration agreement — article 3 has also been added, where it reads like this, I will read the original, that no one will say that I am abusing or that I am ill-translated, “After signing the agreement in Article 1 of this Act, the Republic of Croatia has made a declaration in conjunction with the agreement in Article 1 of this Act, which, in its original Croatian and English language, reads: ‘A statement by the Republic of Croatia to the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In relation to the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, signed in Stockholm on 4 November 2009, the Republic of Croatia makes the following statement, of which the Croatian and Slovenian sides jointly notified the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States of America on 27 October 2009.".. And further, this statement is "Nothing in the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be regarded as consenting to Croatia at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea." and further, "As agreed with the Slovenian side, the Republic of Croatia shall issue this Declaration after the signing of the Arbitration Agreement and before the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 11(1). The arbitration agreement.".. Kosor is signed. Once again, it's nice to know when our gentlemen, together with the Croats, explained things and, as it says, "and reported together," is the common "Presidentship of the Council of the European Union and of the United States."".. Mr. Pahor lied, as he lied about other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Mr. Jelinčič, I've interrupted you. Mr. Jelinčič, I would like to remind you of the appropriateness of the words. [[...]] I would like to remind you of the appropriateness of the words. Mr. Jelinčič, we would like to remind you of the appropriateness of the words. And again. And I'm giving you a warning. I give you my first warning. You're on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u12	I can tell, but I'll ask you two minutes. Two minutes. The fact is that Mr Pahor is talking in two places about working abroad and has to do something to get this job. And it is only necessary to betray your own country, for many things are done for the servant. When Mr Pahor said that it was the mutual benefit of both countries, it was not the mutual benefit of both countries, it was the mutual benefit of both Heads of State or Government, Mrs Kosor and Mr Pahor. It's that mutual benefit. Slovenia will lose its integral part of its national territory and let Mr Pahor not say where the alternative is. The alternative is in a peace international conference, which Mr Pahor does not want and must not declare, on the contrary, because they have determined for him and simply told him what he can do. What happens when the European Union falls apart? According to American projects, which were also published, the European Union is expected to disintegrate around 2025, perhaps a little earlier. And then the Croats will say nice, because we have a nice, probably Piran with us. This will be what Mr Pahor guarantees, I don't know what he guarantees and talks about borderless guarantees here, and I don't know what else. With what? With that cabin in Umag or something? This guarantees that it sells even Slovenian national territory. And that's it? Please, this is where I'm talking. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Mr Jelinčič, with personal attacks and accusations against anyone, the President of the Government or anyone, I will not allow you to continue. You have every right to state all the reasons why you are against the arbitration agreement, why you think the Government has not acted well in this, all of it, but these personal attacks on anyone in Parliament have no place. That's why I'm giving you a second warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u14	You know what to say when you say [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Mr. Jelinčič, you have only once afforded an attack at your last regular session — you have afforded an outrageous attack on the chairman when asking questions. And I won't let you do that again. Continue under some of the rules applicable to this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u16	Can you add four minutes to your explanation? I know this is your purpose and that this is your way of working. However, respect at least some basic rules that are respected in democracy. Four more minutes, please. I wonder what Mr President of the Government will do next when we find out when the whole of Slovenia will find that we have lost our way out to the open sea, that we have lost the sea, that Koper will fail or that half of Slovenia's economy will fall to the ground because of these matters. What's he gonna say? Nothing, 'cause he's gonna be out of work somewhere, and he's gonna have a good time. When asked, Mr. President, where were we for 18 years? In this case, at least for the Slovenian National Party, Mr President could say that we have been insisting on our position since we arrived at the National Assembly. But no one listened to us, including the ruling stability that is still in the government today, and in fact ruled as opposed to Mr Janša all but four years. I think you need to look around here and look at yourself and figure out what was wrong and where it was wrong. But you don't care. You have given all your strength and power to illegally advertise and promote this arbitration agreement through the slogan "We are for an agreement". And of course, the Inspectorate of the Ministry of the Interior replied, of course, that they are a criminal body which can only impose sanctions for explicitly defined offences in the law and not against persons, explicitly defined in the law as responsible persons for offences. In short, the government can do whatever it wants or something. And now we have found that the government is even promoting the europhone on its website, which citizens call on and then they are given instructions that they must vote in favour of this agreement. Of course, it doesn't mean anything, of course. Of course it doesn't mean anything. What this would mean if we have such legal experts who can't even get the English translation right when they translate maritime areas into marine areas. Right, I think Mr. Rudolf was happy to hear such nonsense. Probably let these gentlemen, legal experts, go to the Slovenian side to do stupid things and work for the benefit of neighbouring Croatia. These are indisputable facts. They don't even know the difference between sea law and maritime law. Nor do our great legal international maritime experts know this because they simply do not distinguish what the maritime area means and what it means. [[A laugh in the hall.]] Laugh, your stupidity is so endless that you have to laugh at what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u17	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Unfortunately, I have these mistakes written too much to count in these short minutes. But that's just the way it is, because it doesn't help anything anyway. In short, the agreement is very harmful and there is a whole bunch of interesting things in this agreement. The reason they're in there is that we'll probably find out later. Article 5 states that nothing applies, which was concluded unilaterally after 25. 6. 1991. The fact is that Croatia has declared its independence and independence and sovereignty 8. Ten. That's three months after that. Does this mean that the establishment of the Croatian State does not apply, as it is a unilateral document? And why is that written like that? It is certainly a very crafty agreement, which we do not yet see what will happen when, if, I hope not, this arbitration agreement is confirmed, then we will see what Mr Pahor and Mrs Kosor are, as Croatia says, "intention" then in those mutual leaps of sparks and fires. This is a negativity of the Croatian state, which was, of course, up to 8. Part 10 of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And if we were to talk to someone, we should talk to Belgrade at the time, not Zagreb, but this is already too much for our intelligent international experts, because they don't understand anyway. The key is to sign this whole thing. It is essential to benefit from this, and it is essential that some have a very good time. They don't care if Slovenia bled for its country. After all, even at that time in 1991, I think February 7th, they signed a peace declaration where they would like to accept thin Yugoslav people's armies with flowers, flowers and I don't know what. And if we look at who is signed under this declaration, we see that most of these gentlemen today are in favour of an agreement with Croatia. This is said, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and a large part of the Slovenian population, it is treason. It is a great betrayal, which, unfortunately, we do not have in the Penal Code, because it was necessary to protect ourselves in the future so that no one would be responsible for doing so. For the surrender of your own land is treason. The Croatian Penal Code has great treason in its articles. We don't have that. In short, I don't know what to say. Man pukes on all of this, with all these lies. This interesting information is that Sweden will close its embassy for external work 31. 5. and that it will definitely close the Embassy in Slovenia 30. 6. They say something, too. That says something, too. We've arranged it, we've agreed, we've received gentlemen's purchases, we've made a promise to buy, and we're here. We don't need any more. Slovenia is a country that will soon be no more. Croatia, however, is an important country. For it is necessary to be aware that the Swedish Embassy in Zagreb is and will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has asked me to apologize for his absence during the debate on the official visit of the Serbian Prime Minister. So much for a notice. But he'll join us later. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Respectable. They would be naive to believe that today's agenda item of the National Assembly is about the fact that new facts or new circumstances are known regarding the signing of an agreement and the preparation of a referendum on the confirmation or rejection of the law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement. We are well-known for dramaturgy, which has been shown many times in recent decades in Slovenia, especially in this two-year term. It is a matter of producing an extraordinary event, showing some circumstances that have nothing to do with reality. This has already proved to be the case here today. It was clear yesterday and even when this request came to light that all the circumstances were known to anyone who wanted to see it. The president of the government, if he's famous for anything, is after he likes to talk to everyone and anyone who asks him or doesn't. It's probably a good place to put a dot here without any comment. But if we also know that the Prime Minister of the Government has certainly talked more with the leader of the opposition on this subject than with all of us, then the matter is even clearer. You've missed the perfect opportunity to join the 50 votes that were for the adoption of the law. Nothing prevented you from voting in favour of the law on ratification. Nothing prevented you from doing that. Why now refer to the need to ratify this by a two-thirds majority? The opportunity was to turn those votes in. No one was defending you. No, but I'd rather leave. And now that more than half of those citizens and citizens who have expressed themselves in public opinion that it is irresponsible for the National Assembly to place responsibility on citizens and citizens, and because you have consistently demanded this and have so-calledly threatened this referendum, it has happened, of course, now things need to be reversed. Show me there's something else in the back. If it is only 10 hours, of which half of those debaters who are against, for 10 hours such campaigns, are fine. We will be able to endure - not for the first time - extraordinary meetings have been enough and there will be more. But in the end it is still necessary to say what we want with this debate. Do we really want to clear up a question? If this is the case, let us explain it to the Slovenian public. As can be seen from everything that has happened in all 20 years on the border issue, then it is more than obvious that all governments have tried to resolve this issue. The last one, unfortunately, failed. This issue must also be addressed. We've come up with a solution that's a third way. By now, we have had, if you remember Mr Perry, an intermediary between Slovenia and Croatia before, I think, 10 years ago to settle this issue, only through mediation between the two sides. And he put his hands up and went because he said, "You're not gonna make the deal." Then a new solution has been found, which is in all practice so far, when it comes to disputes, whether individual, collective or interstate, that in the meantime, at the request of the two, with the consent of both, at the starting points that they draw together, someone third arranges this. This is the path that we support in the Liberal Democracy. We believe that we have chosen a way that will be the right one to give when we have identified issues that are indisputable for Slovenia to set a limit to determine contact with the open sea. Slovenia was, is, and will be a maritime state. There's no doubt here, and we believe we're right. That is why we also trust the arbitration tribunal to take into account all relevant Slovenian arguments and also draw a line that we cannot, do not have in the National Assembly, have no authority or know what some would like to draw, adopt, and do. Yes, it would be very easy to do and to endure the ease of conduct if we could call it that. This is not a way to convince us today that we can believe that anything is new, that there is anything that has been silenced, that has been deliberately placed in public to make things more friendly, more popular to citizens in order to support this law more easily. For it is also undeniable that most of those who are the loudest today say that this is not a referendum on the law of arbitration, but it is a referendum and decision-making between citizens and citizens on or on the President of the Government. Decision on whether or not it is competent. It doesn't go to these provocations, even though they're present every day. We, in the Liberal Democracy, want to talk about all the open issues and face the facts by 5, if you want to continue the campaign. However, it is very difficult to face facts when, for example, a European Member, who is quite well responsible for how the temporary border on Dragonja was established in 1991, says "I condemn the President of the Government for preparing such an agreement because it sucks because it is a disaster" and so on, in the same sentence it says, "I have full understanding of the European People's Party, which is a majority party, and of the Vatican," which allegedly supports this way of resolving disputes between the two countries, one of which is one in the European Union, and one will tomorrow, and we are thus at the heart of all events. And here's the point. And those who say something from home and something from outside now point out that only their truth is true. It must be said that there is enough looting of historical merit in these 20 years and that only those with a historical dimension can decide on issues and only they know it, but they have had several opportunities to do so. Yes, to clear things up, that's how I understood yesterday on the Foreign Policy Committee, and I understand some statements in the last period, "to clear up so that it won't be cleared up" so that we can solve a problem for a long time that would not have happened if we hadn't caused it. This is about the true definition of these final discussions. Therefore, believe that Members of the Liberal Democracy today will insist, explain if anything is to be explained if anything is to be done. We are confident that what has been done so far is right, and that in 14 days, when the referendum will be held, voters and voters will have enough arguments on the table to be able to do without botts and without those who are stinging and threatening, what will happen and what is costed to make the right decision and that these 10 hours of pre-election campaign is simply over today. But we will adopt proposals or a proposal for a decision adopted by the home committee, and that is all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Please don't talk about the campaign today in this Chamber, so they won't accuse me and send me to court for this violation. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! If anyone thought that this debate would be any different today in the National Assembly than it was, he was wrong or naive if anyone thought that there would be no pre-referendum campaign today, he was in the wrong until today. Today he'll be able to see the opposite. We have done so, and we are going to be witnesses today, and there is no way to avoid it and there is almost no rules of procedure, and some also refer to the Constitution that would prevent it. We are in the middle of a legislative referendum campaign on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are in the midst of activities in which citizens and citizens can learn all the facts about the arbitration agreement. This is a time when citizens and citizens can be convinced of the accuracy and correctness of the arguments led by the Government and the National Assembly in the confirmation of the Arbitration Agreement Act. We are in the midst of the activities that we citizens and citizens of Slovenia will take on Sunday June 6th, when, by defining the arbitration agreement, we show our thinking and responsibility for our common country, its future, the future of all of us, and in particular the generations that are coming after us. It is normal for us to run into a variety of views and views in life, in particular this is normal for politics. So much more so when it comes to a question that raises as much attention as it does to the public during politics, it is justified to resolve the border dispute with neighbouring Croatia. The diversity and diversity of views also enrich the common potency of the final result, but only when it comes to the way in which arguments are faced with arguments and where respect for a different view is the fundamental feature of such discussions. In the debate on the resolution of the border dispute with Croatia, and in particular with regard to the submitted, by the Constitutional Court, a positive opinion of the open arbitration agreement between the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia, and later in the State Council without a vote against the confirmed agreement, there were large words, reasoned comments, blue opinions and a multitude of questions, which are also the result of ignorance. And this has been a welcome to the President of the Government, the Government, the Members, in fact, to the entire Slovenian public, who has thus been able to familiarise themselves with the agreement. Much too much has been said in this time of year also indecisive words that are inappropriate for the state and society that we like to advertise, but unfortunately we do not all work in this sense or with this objective. Inappropriate words, heavy but totally unfounded accusations, insults, manipulations and misdemeanours. Difficult, but totally unfounded, accusations have been made in flight and are still flying in particular to the President of the Government and also to the Foreign Minister. On the average, Members have been accused of having examined, supported and endorsed this agreement in legal proceedings and on the basis of opinions on the international law of qualified experts. In the public, it manipulates modified data or interpretations of the agreement and threatens with possible or even inevitable consequences which do not have any support in the arbitration agreement and even less in the comparative international practice of law of the sea. On the other hand, all the real, positive advantages of the agreement are constantly being attacked. Reliable, good consequences for our country, citizens and citizens, for the neighbouring country and its people, for the people and the whole region, for Europe, which is also our Europe, in its entirety. Deliberately, too, maliciously overlooks or silences the many negative consequences that the rejection of the arbitration agreement would have for Slovenia, for all of our people, for living in the region and in Europe. "Nothing will happen unless we reach an agreement." They say and as a mantra they add "Time is on our side, we are not in a hurry, we are in a hurry to Croatia.".. If we leave behind the non-European idea that someone can deny someone else, the country, the way into the future because of their own accounts, let me stress the following. In Slovenia, too, we are in a rush to our future, to a better future for us and our children, so we, the Social Democrats, and I know and believe that this is how everyone who has a well-intentioned and responsible relationship in Slovenia sees it. Let's make it a parable. We're standing at the train station, we've got a ticket bought, and before us is a train heading in the right direction to the desired location. But we stand and decide whether to get on this train or not, or not, we don't want to wait for the next one. In doing so, we do not even know the time of arrival and whether this train will even arrive, what it will be, and what the price of the ticket will be. Nothing will change, the opponents of the agreement say. Yeah, it's true. Nothing's gonna change. The Croatian border crossing will be on the Slovenian side, we will monitor half of the Gulf of Piran, the misunderstandings will remain, the fertile ground for the incidents will remain and so on, nothing will change. "Let's wait," we are told by those who have been holding scissors and canvas in Slovenian foreign policy for years and years. We are told by those who, over the past four years, led the Government of our country as members of the EU and NATO. We all know that Croatia was not a member of these international ties at this time. "The agreement is a political and professional victory!" We and the public are in a hurry to persuade the opponents of the agreement to silence the Slovenian public that the agreement is supported by the international legal profession, as well as the highest representatives not only of the international community, but also of those political and religious institutions to which these opponents belong and otherwise they like to be referred. "Why did we shift the responsibility to humans?" we are asked by those who predicted and demanded a referendum when they did not even know the exact contents. Once again, the response of the Social Democrats, our President of the Government, signed an agreement sent by the Government to the Constitutional Court and later to the National Assembly, where we have also adopted it without a vote and we take full responsibility for this decision. The most scrupulous opponents, however, left the meeting and did not vote against it. Therefore, this referendum is the only way for them to vote. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government — who is not present at this time but who was present at the outset and will join us — today’s meeting is intended to reacquaint ourselves with the facts, and above all there is an opportunity for discussion, which will contribute to even greater disunity and confusion. A thorough examination of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service attaches to those we have had concerns about this meeting. Allow me to identify myself for the reason for calling this meeting, which is marked as a new fact. Deception by the Prime Minister of the Government, if Croatia does not agree that Slovenia will thus have contact with the open sea. Yeah, of course he doesn't. If we agreed, we would achieve this through a bilateral agreement. However, this is exactly as the content and purpose of the arbitration agreement. And the following statement, Croatia's unilateral statement is proof that it disagrees. Is it not possible to understand this unilateral statement, which does not have any weight, as a consequence of the Croatian policy's awareness that an arbitration agreement will bring a solution that they disagree with? There are enough unjustified and inappropriate attacks against key holders of state sovereignty, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, even the Constitutional Court, enough irregularities, based on domestic lies, fraud and manipulation. The diplomatic representatives of the countries that have been listed deny, but once again it is not enough, there remains doubt. Like all well-intentioned, the Social Democrats have no other answer to all of this than truth and professionally verified arguments. The arguments which provide a fair, fair and lasting solution to the border dispute with the provisions of the agreement. Of course I also belong to a direct exit to the open sea and thus bring to life between countries, among people, especially at the border, peace and coexistence. That is how the Social Democrats think, work and work for the approval of the arbitration agreement, with responsibility for citizens and citizens, to our present and future young generations, to ours, to all the common country and country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Social Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, President. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have requested today's meeting to receive clear answers to the questions raised, and in particular the answers to what the Government will do in the light of the new facts to which the public, as well as this National Assembly, have been informed after the ratification of the arbitration agreement was decided by this Parliament, especially after the call for a subsequent legislative referendum has been decided. We have not received these answers today, not by the Prime Minister or by the other members of the Government. This is an indication which is part of the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 3, of the law, where this statement, which denies us direct territorial access to international waters, is explicitly recorded. Moreover, in this declaration in Article 3, the law adopted on 20 November last year in the Croatian Parliament, as you know almost unanimously, is explicitly stated that Slovenia or the Slovenian Government was previously informed of this declaration and this week before the signing of the arbitration agreement, on 27 October 2009, and that they have jointly informed the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States of America. Ten days before deciding on the most important issue after Slovenia's independence, before deciding whether Slovenia will retain an essential part of our statehood and sovereignty, whether we will preserve our sea, or whether the Slovenian Sea will become cut off from international waters, closed, captured between Croatia and Italian waters, the Slovenians are divided instead of being united. Many do not even know that this is an ex-post legislative referendum and that it will depend on people's decision at the referendum if the arbitration agreement is confirmed or if we lose an important part of our sovereignty forever and irreversibly. Slovenia has always been a maritime country. Why would we have less in the European Union than we had in the former country? The Slovenian Government, which is responsible for us being Slovenians at a point where we should be united, is being massacred, and this is contrary to the law, a strong agitation referendum campaign rather than explaining to people what the content of the arbitration agreement is. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and almost all ministries openly advocate an arbitration agreement on their websites, although neither the government nor the ministry are, nor can they be, organizers of an election campaign. In this regard, the content published on the websites of the Communications Office, the government website and the websites of most ministries should be further highlighted by the fact that this classic propaganda content is extremely similar to the content published on the websites of the Social Democrats and the LDS. These contents are not explanatory and not informative in nature, which is supposed to be a direct form of communication between the Government and the public and the government information campaign, which is intended to inform the public in fact and objectively of the arbitration agreement, but in fact this campaign is aimed at the propaganda content of the referendum campaign in the agitation of the arbitration agreement, which is completely irresponsible by the Government and individual ministries to the electorate and electorate. Similarly irresponsible to the Government and individual ministries, other institutions are also expected to be independent in the service of all citizens. The President of the State, the former President of the country, who advocates unilaterally, is even lying when he speaks of an arbitration agreement providing us with direct territorial access to international waters. In short, these institutions behave as if they were elections and as if this decision were related to the fate of the current government. It's not. These are issues that go beyond tight political frameworks. Many intellectuals and experts have understood this and are not afraid to express their arguments against, even though they are politically closer to the Pahor Coalition. Even today in the National Assembly, again by the Prime Minister, we hear threats about what lies ahead if this arbitration agreement is rejected. He's scared of Slovenians for nothing. In Slovenia we have already witnessed a situation similar to that of 20 years ago when we conquered ourselves. Some who are sitting in a well-paid cabinet of the President's Government today have even intimidated us by eating weeds if we win ourselves over, so that we can be isolated, alone, so that no one will admit that we are going to be economically scavengered. None of this happened. Slovenia avoided the Yugoslav Sea by making a timely and correct decision and, above all, by the unity achieved at the time of the decision, it became an internationally recognised and successful country. And in the event of the rejection of a harmful arbitration agreement, nothing will happen. The State of Slovenia will consolidate its negotiating position, the negotiating ground, and above all, it will be possible for the border to be resolved in a fair manner before Croatia enters the European Union. The present arbitration agreement does not allow this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's about Slovenia, it's about our country, and it's about our sea. It is about whether we will once again, as we have witnessed in the history of history, have lost part of our territory — this time the sea, direct territorial access to international waters. If the arbitration agreement were really as good as those who signed it without arguments, then probably such an agitation as the Government is doing on the government's websites and individual ministries would not be necessary. Even media agitation like we've witnessed to her in recent weeks, no. Between 7 and 25 May 2010, some print media proved their commitment to government agitprop. Let me just point out the work and the journal. During this period, the diary published six comments which cheer for the arbitration agreement and no one who would present a position against it. Statistics are also quite eloquent: of the 32 articles published, half of them are for the arbitration agreement, only 5 against; therefore the ratio is 3:1. The work is an undeniable winner in this government agitprop. The relationship between the articles in support is 11:1. However, during that period there were no interviews and no comments to present to people the arguments of those who consider this agreement to be harmful to Slovenia. At the same time, individual ministers are even reading the opposition's ideological campaign without arguments, but they are not offering any convincing argument as to why this arbitration agreement is good. The few that are heard here and there, the fact that it is finally solving this issue and that this issue will be definitively resolved, are not the arguments for, because, given the provisions of the agreement, given that there is no timeline in it, this issue will only begin to be resolved once the accession treaty of Croatia has been signed into the European Union. That is when the deadlines begin to run, and given that there are no deadlines within which to reach the final decision, this solution may take 5, 10, 20 or more years. And what is essential, according to the text as it is written, Slovenia does not provide this territory or "contact" or direct territorial contact with international waters, in the English version we speak in this agreement, talk about "junction", the Croatian version says in this article that it defines "the link of Slovenia to the open sea". "The link between Slovenia and the open sea" is said to connect Slovenia to the open sea or to the meldard waters. The argument should be that this agreement should solve a long-standing issue. It's not solved, it's complicated. An unfair solution will kill a wedge or ignite a fire that will rain for a while between the two nations. Following the call for a referendum, we were informed of the statements and facts that the Prime Minister knew at the time of the signing of the arbitration agreement and was aware that this agreement does not ensure that we have direct territorial access to international waters. And he obviously knew that he did not provide us with a boundary at sea, at the intersection of our Slovenian sea and international waters. This stems from the text of the agreement itself and from the statements accompanying it before signature 4. 11 last year in Stockholm. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we simply do not believe the Prime Minister and his ministers anymore. They turned out to be pure lies, manipulation and deception. The Prime Minister kept talking about Slovenia having territorial contact with the open sea with an arbitration agreement. So direct contact. He spoke about this in Polemika on 10 May, explicitly ensuring that this guarantee was also provided by the Croatian side, specifically by Prime Minister Kosor. In his reply to the question of 17 May in this National Assembly, however, he said first that this assurance had been given to Trakoscjan, not in writing, but not in writing, but not directly, he said that it did not have to be said very openly and clearly, as some Croatian and Slovenian media reported, it was sufficient, in his view, to ensure that they had settled back at the negotiating table. A few minutes later, in addition to his reply, he said that this guarantee was given on 11 September last year in Ljubljana. Remember, that's when you and the prime minister had a cup of coffee in Ljubljana and probably talked about a lot of things. Certainly nothing about what Slovenia is supposed to provide for direct territorial access to the Slovenian sea with international waters. This guarantee was therefore not in any form written or in any form having a formal legal effect. When the Croatian accession negotiations were blocked by the Prime Minister, he said that Slovenia would withdraw reservations when the border issue with Croatia was finally resolved. The reservations have been withdrawn and the border issue will not be resolved for several years, as the procedures, as I said, after the arbitration agreement, only begin with the signing of Croatia's accession treaty with the European Union. However, all other circumstances show that this solution, if approved, will be very long-lasting, as each country interprets this text in its own way. And when the decision comes, the Constitution will have to be changed. This time with a two-thirds majority, not a simple majority. And then, obviously, the Slovenians will be splitting up again and arguing with each other about who is more and who is less responsible for the loss of our sea. With all this confusion on the Slovenian side, Croatia, when ratifying the arbitration agreement in the Parliament, has also adopted a declaration which is part of the ratification law in Article 3 which is unequivocal and which states that nothing in the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be considered as landing Croatia at the request of Slovenia after territorial contact with the open sea. In doing so, it is important that this declaration is part of the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement adopted by the Assembly on 20 November last year, almost unanimously. Of course, more important is the placement, the timing of this statement in the context of the agreement, since this statement, i.e. in the law, does not simply state in the Croatian law of ratification that Slovenia has been informed of this declaration, states that it is one week before the signing of the arbitration agreement, namely 27. Ten. In 2009, the Croatian and Slovenian sides jointly informed the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States. Therefore, the Slovenian Prime Minister was informed of this statement and agreed with it before the signing of the arbitration agreement. The following also states that it has been agreed with the Slovenian party that the Republic of Croatia shall make this declaration after the signing of the arbitration agreement, after 4. 11th, which is 9. The 11th also happened, and before the ratification in the Assembly, that is 20. 11th, which also happened. Apparently, Croatia has positioned this time-table very precisely in such a way that it will also have appropriate positive legal consequences which are detrimental to Slovenian interests. And our Prime Minister knew about it all along. These Croatian statements, which are part of the law on the confirmation of the arbitration agreement — Article 3 of the law is enshrined in the Croatian Parliament 20. 11th Last year — until recently, no one was denied from Slovenia. It is only now that the opposition has raised this issue and, in view of the manipulation of the Slovenian government with regard to the arbitration agreement, that the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has responded, but in this case it is also a matter of demanta after content, not of a form that is important in this case, given the placement of this statement in the context of the whole event. The Prime Minister himself interviewed on Television Slovenija 16. On 11th last year, when he spoke about Slovenia's desire to obtain "territorial contact" in this agreement, she failed and agreed to "junction", he said, quote, "I in Berlin on Monday expressed my gratitude to Foreign Minister Hilary Clinton that her diplomacy had, at my request, transmitted...", the end of the quote. So there are witnesses to this agreement. So they're witnesses. We hope there are also records, magnetograms of these conversations. And if what is stated in the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement adopted by the Croatian Parliament is not true, what will the Slovenian Government do? Will Croatia require that this provision be amended to amend the law to exclude this article from the law, so that this article is deleted from the law on ratification? Why hasn't she done it yet? Formally, the Republic of Croatia has introduced this declaration into the law itself and as such has been effective. If nothing is done on our side, then the Croatian declaration is quietly attached by the Slovenian government. The declaration adopted at the time of the ratification of the arbitration agreement in the Slovenian Parliament is far from as heavy as the Croatian declaration. Its time positioning and all other circumstances also speak of the fact that it has no weight contrary to the declaration of the Republic of Croatia. And because it is essential, this statement indicates that Croatia has a completely different interpretation of the provisions of the arbitration agreement than Slovenia, on the essential point on which it depends, whether Slovenia will maintain or lose direct territorial access to international waters. So it is not an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, that is a misunderstanding which does not solve matters in a fair manner. So who should I trust? Who should the Slovenian public believe? So far, all Croatian statements and forecasts have been confirmed. On our side, the prime minister and ministers themselves are entangled in contradictory statements and illogicality. For this reason, unfortunately, the Prime Minister and ministers are no longer trusted. What's more, the facts say otherwise. We believe that they were deliberately misleading the Slovenian public and that for Slovenia they wanted to sell a harmful agreement to the Slovenian public as a "remek work". The text of an agreement which no longer contains the principle of external justice, ex aequo et bono, in determining a limit and a time limit which is no longer in conflict with the previous agreement. The previous agreement clearly set deadlines for decisions that are no longer in the arbitration agreement, leaving the issue open for years and does not mean any solution, but the continuation of the disputed relations. But when this decision comes, those responsible will not be in position for a long time. The Prime Minister said yesterday: "The least Slovenia can get is contact with open waters." Slovenia has more than contacts today. It has direct territorial access to international waters. So why would she agree to something less than what we had in the former country? Why would we be worse off as a member of the European Union? It is necessary to recall once again what Article 3 of this Agreement provides for in points A, B and C. However we read them, the provisions are clear and unequivocal. The border on land and sea under international law shall be established in 3.a. And once the border under international law is established, the article 3.b speaks about it, in English "Slovenian Junction to the high sea", does not speak of "territorial contact" if it were written there "territorial contact", would all dilemmas be resolved, which would be unequivocal. On the Croatian side we have "the link of Slovenia to the open sea", we speak in the Slovenian part about "stick". However, in so far as the border would be established on the basis of Article 3a in order to contact international waters, we do not need a Article 3b and not a Article 3c which speaks of air regimes. Why is this Article 3c important — and so does yesterday’s statement by the Foreign Minister, who says that “the task of the arbitral tribunal is to make contact with international waters, this is to allow Slovenia to free access to international waters”, which is also significantly less than we have today and less than the requirement of this Parliament. So this 3c point, or 3rd paragraph in C point, is probably due to the fact that once the border is demarcated and Croatia and Italy border each other at sea, they will announce the epicontinental bands on the entire Adriatic and T5 will move there to Montenegro. Therefore, this Article 3c provides for a regime of navigation. In the case of an arbitration agreement, it is a matter of establishing a boundary at sea, which will forever and irreparably, as provided for in the agreement, Slovenia will take part in its sovereignty. After many years, if this arbitration agreement is confirmed, the decision of the arbitrators will have to be respected and amended in accordance with this decision. At that time, Slovenia will again be at the point of divergentness. It is, however, a question that should primarily be addressed or regulated by the country that is approaching the European Union, namely, the Republic of Croatia. The borders will also be important in the future, even more so with Croatia, which also has unresolved border issues with other neighbours. In addition, the Schengen border will not move from this area for a while. The more important the borders at sea will be, the last example of the gas terminal in Žavaje is that it will be built in Italian waters, what Slovenia can do, but we have seen it recently. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to really clear up all these backgrounds, and today I must conclude that there is no longer any question whether the arbitration agreement guarantees us to preserve what we have today and what we have in the former country. Today, we know that under the arbitration agreement, the Slovenian sea will no longer border on international waters, and Slovenia will not receive anything more from the arbitration agreement than other international acts provide it, especially those relating to shipping regimes. Today is a question that requires an answer, why the Slovenian public is constantly deluded. How is it possible that the Prime Minister signed the agreement and initiated and achieved the whole ratification process, even though he knew we were losing direct territorial access to international waters? Why didn't the procedure stop the moment it became clear that Slovenia had given in at the key point of our sovereignty? Unfortunately, there is no other option than for this procedure to be concluded at the referendum. Slovenia is unnecessarily exposed and placed at stake an important part of its sovereignty. After all, and after it is clear that both signatories have a diametrically opposite interpretation of the arbitration agreement, it is clear that the arbitration agreement has been further secured in this interpretation in a formal appropriate manner, but Slovenia does not, it is clear that the arbitration agreement is weak, harmful and unfair. If it had been confirmed, it would have caused further conflicts and an unfair border issue would have added to the burden of relations between countries. We therefore expect in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will get written evidence that rejects the declarations of the Republic of Croatia adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which will reject what is said in Article 3 of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in Croatia. If this evidence is not or is not available, then it must be said that trust is misused, that Slovenian citizens are deliberately misled by the current authorities and therefore the only option to prevent harmful consequences is the plebiscite rejection of the arbitration agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished members of the Government, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me first to begin with an interesting quote from an extremely interesting book written and addressed by the State's Secret, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel. Page 249 states "The Republic of Slovenia also stresses that there is no territorial dispute with border states or with the Republic of Croatia". He wrote this in a letter to Badinter in December 1991, after Demos' government had placed a border checkpoint where the border crossing is today. Following this letter was part of the conclusion of the first arbitration known to the history of independent Slovenia, that was arbitration after or at a peace conference, that should be told to colleague Jelinčić, at a peace conference for the former Yugoslavia. Arbitration then laid down all the conditions and parameters for the recognition of independent and sovereign countries. Slovenia was recognised on the basis of the Basic Constitutional Charter and when Dr Dimitrij Rupel replied to Badinter, he wrote what I had just read. Well, the book says something else interesting: "From the texts of the arbitration panel it is clear how thorough investigations we were exposed before we were hit by the seal of an internationally recognised state. Badinter's opinions also show how many documents and letters we had to produce in our ministry to satisfy the curiosity of our investigators. We were assisted in this by law-abiding lawyers, especially Danilo Türk, Mirjam Škrk and Borut Bohte.".. So when it comes to the qualifications of some international lawyers, we know exactly what your foreign minister and foreign ministry official Dr. Dimitrij Rupel wrote. Apparently a tense pre-referendum campaign, which has for more than two weeks with its noise and its poisons and contaminates emotions and divides the Slovenian public, is not enough for some, so they have invented and prepared another extraordinary session and another parliamentary debate on, as they say in their justification, new facts that are supposed to clarify the background of the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. By the way, and in order to refresh our memory, the same Members who forced today's meeting left the Chamber in the debate and vote on the arbitration agreement and renounced the right and duty to vote. And now that they no longer have tangible arguments, they come on a day with so-called new facts. These new facts are supposed to be word pingpong statements and denials between the Heads of Government or a unilateral statement by Croatia, which does not even have the status of an annex to the contract, but only to be taken into account by the arbitrators. Well, today, relevant diplomacys such as the United States of America, Sweden and probably others will also make this clear. Are these even new facts, colleagues and colleagues? Let's be serious. The only tangible fact is that neither Borut Pahor nor Jadranka Kosor will be among the five arbitrators whose agreement leaves Slovenia to determine the border and contact with the open sea. Everything spoken by the Prime Minister today has no effect on the work and decision-making of the arbitrators. As from 6 June, only what is referred to in the articles of the Arbitration Agreement and which has been recorded and adopted until 25 June 1991 will be merciless to determine the border and contact with international waters. Respectable, opponents of the agreement. Now you have a good opportunity to assess and understand the actual importance of the agreement itself, which was created by the European Union's mediation, which was signed in the presence of the European Union and also the importance of international law, the international law which you so bitterly underestimate in every debate on arbitration. Finally, be aware that the rights of countries and peace guarantee and protect, in particular or only international law. Without justice, the world would be ruled by lawlessness and the will of the stronger. There is actually a lot of will because and when international law is trampled. Is that what we want? I don't think so. I think we want peace and the legal order of relations. The decision on the arbitration agreement is not a decision for or against Borut Pahor or for or against Janez Janša. Please?Oh, my God! Such simplification, banalization, interpretation of the referendum is very misleading. There are more important things in the game than winning one or the other political options. The fate of relations between the countries, the credibility of Slovenia in the European Union and the world, the quality of people's lives at the border, stability in the game, and peace in the Balkans. Relations with Croatia are among the key national interests of Slovenia. As such, the consent of all democratic and responsible parties should be enjoyed. Sorry, it's not like that. Responsibility has given way to some, and we are here again today to deepen this unnecessary and harmful national divide at the request of the opposition. The request for this meeting, however, is in fact a reflection of the powerlessness and despair of opponents of the arbitration agreement, since after two weeks of repeating one and the same propaganda slogans and showing of imaginary maps with maritime delimitations, which attempt to prejudge the decision and assist the other party in the dispute, but not Slovenia, they have exhausted their charge and their power of prevention. More and more are people who tend to support the agreement and who are not prepared to follow the belligerent calls of those who do not want a just solution to the border dispute, either because of internal political accounts or because their own lives and their own political identity can only be invented through an endless conflict with the internal and external enemies. We are convinced that most citizens and citizens of a democratic, European and self-confident Slovenia will not adopt the "is Slovenia in war" issue, even though it has been vehemently expressed by a well-known philosopher and is repeated by supporters of absurd peace conferences. By the way, the peace conference in the former Yugoslavia has already been and is over. If the convocations of this meeting, which cannot be anything other than an extended pre-referendum meeting at the expense of the patience of the taxpayers, think that we will fear the arbitrators and that we will try to disable this item on the agenda, they have counted. Here we are, colleagues and colleagues, equipped with reason and arguments, which we believe will convince the public that Slovenia finally has the optimal opportunity to complete, not in a miraculous way, but in a just, correct and legally indisputable way, a 20-year-long dispute between neighbours and to get rid of the living sand of the power or incompetence of the previous governments. Let's not forget. The former government of Janez Janša, in contact with a client colleague at the European People's Party, Mr Ivo Sanader, has approached the settlement of the dispute by being prepared to leave it to the judgment and judgment of international judges at the Interstate Court in The Hague. After consenting to the Croatian request in Briony to terminate the initialised Drnovšek-Racan Agreement. These are facts that are very painful for the opposition and, in particular, the Slovenian Democratic Party, but cannot place them under the carpet. As it pains to know that the principle of external justice mentioned so many times, that famous ex aequo et bono, which Mr Janša first heard from the lawyers of the sea or from Mr Vlačič in 2007, was, in accordance with his principle agreement at Bled with Sanader, because it was a condition for landing at The Hague, I repeat, a condition of the opposition to landing at The Hague, which was laid down by colleagues from the SD in particular, was included in the negotiations, but unfortunately only as a tactical requirement. If there were no opposition pressure at the time, we would forget about it and go to The Hague and beyond without that condition. This was a condition forced by the opposition, particularly the SD, and requested by Mr Vlačič in the then mixed section. And he can tell Mr. Janša that this is a lie and that this is not true — these are facts, they are historical facts. Ask and read Article 38 of the Statute of the Interstate Court and you will find out how ex aequo et bono or the principle of external justice is possible only if both parties agree with it. Only if both parties agree, otherwise it's not possible. So it was a bluff, too, it was a bluff, because you knew it would be difficult, but you would have moved on to The Hague, and today you might have a midline in the Bay of Piran. But since this middle line would be signed by the name of John Janša, we should all be silent and applauding. It's not like that today. We have the opportunity to negotiate or to obtain a substantial better distinction through arbitration and finally get in touch with each other. Let us once again touch on the only serious subject of this referendum — the arbitration agreement. What's written on it will also be the only merciless criterion for arbitrators. The Court of Arbitration will determine, quote Article 3 of the Agreement, because it is good to quote it several times, that the public knows what this is about, "A – the course of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea. B — Contact of Slovenia with the open sea. C — arrangements for the use of relevant marine areas.’ For the first point, the arbitrators will apply the rules and principles of international law and, at paragraphs 2 and 3, international law, justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances." It is therefore decided that Slovenia will have contact, not the official route, since it is already provided at any time. The service path, gentlemen from the opposition, unfortunately, also repeating the facts does not help you - it is already provided by separate shipping and on the basis of UNCLAS articles, that is, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The service path and the safe passage of ships are now assured. So, don't fool around! The arbitrators will not decide on this, but will decide on a much more specific matter, this is, of contact, Junction, not relationship to, this is Croatian translation, and if it is transformed for the internal needs of Croatia, we do not worry. Do you know what's gonna happen there? The English text will be useful, and in the English text is the word junction. The word "junction" means a compound. Go take a look at the English Croatian dictionary and you'll see that it's writing a date, it's not writing a connection, it's writing a date. Such a framework of arbitration is correct and realistic, since the decision must be internationally sustainable and validated, while fair and must ensure contact with international waters. This contact, which we now have only theoretically and in our desires, is not, in fact, because already during the previous governments Slovenian fishermen avoided fishing in the southern part of the Bay of Piran. This is also discussed by the representative of the coastal fishermen, Mr Novogradec,'some hope to go to the other side, but you know how many incidents in previous years have been caused by this. And if we do not want to continue with the practice of incidents and conflict between fishermen or between the police, things will have to be settled and it will be necessary to determine exactly where our Slovenian fishermen can safely and without fear of fishing. Also, police boats and our only warship, which rarely travels south to the open sea, are usually avoided by sailing on the assumption or by what we call our sea. Why? In order to avoid incidents, they prefer to take the Italian side and do not, of course, want to ask the Croatian authorities for permission because it would be premature and that is correct. But this has happened in previous governments. So it wasn't that self-evident use of our waters. Things were always weird. For example, even with the law of a specific area, the fishing ecological area of Slovenia, it is only in the law, because inspectors do not sail there, they do not go to see the situation to Vrsar. And that's a fact. The deal isn't a magic wand, it's not a miracle. And like all agreements in a democratic Europe based on compromise-based agreement, understanding the problems of the other side, not just its own problems. That's the key to Europe. And if you didn't understand that, unfortunately, you're not even for Europe. So there is no agreement in democratic Europe, it cannot be ideal for one of the parties, but it is optimal, real and favourable for both sides. It is needed for peace and normal neighbourly relations. Therefore, it is wisely supported by the vast majority of Slovenian international and maritime lawyers. For example, the dean of the Faculty of Law, Dr. Rajko Pirnat, Minister of Justice of the First Demos Government, points out that the referendum will decide whether Slovenia trusts international law or whether it is a state that does not wish to resolve the dispute in a peaceful manner on its basis. I hope we all respect Dr. Rajko Pirnat's qualifications. The representative of the Department of International Relations at the Faculty of Social Sciences, Dr Milan Brglez, notes that with the arbitration agreement, Croatia has also agreed to apply in addition to international law the fairness and principles of good-neighbourly relations in order to achieve a fair and fair solution, taking into account all relevant circumstances. This is the first time that Croatia has agreed to make a third decision on the principles of fairness, without which the Slovenian argument would be much weaker than at Bled. Back then, in Bled, our position was much weaker than it is now. This was the first time, because of Croatia's interest to join the European Union, that it has agreed to this principle. The public arbitration agreement is also supported by prominent representatives of Slovenian civil society, art, literature, culture, sport and economy. Let me mention just a few of the signatories who are calling for the Reason for an agreement. Among them are writers and publicists such as Tone Pavček, Cyril Zlbeck, Tone Partljič, Aleš Debeljak, players and directors such as Gojmir Lesnjak — Gojc, Milena Zupančič, Dušan Jovanovic, Janez Pipan, artists such as Jakob Brdar, Mirsad Begić, Roman Uranjek, musicians such as Zoran Predin, Vlado Kreslin, Robert Pesut Magnifico, historians and sociologists such as Marko Kerševan, Jože Pirjevac, Peter Štich, Rudi Rizman, Maca Yogan, Lev Kreft, Igor Pribac, Dušan Nečak, Niko Toš, Marko Uršič, Vesna Leskovšek, Boris Veske Vezjak, Srečo Draga Draga, Rector, Rector, First Rector of the University of Primo and University of Primo Lucija Čok. And many also prominent Slovenians and Slovenes whose signatures are still coming can be seen on the website of the Reason for the Agreement initiative. Everyone calls for understanding and a vote for an arbitration agreement. All these prominent personalities can only be thanked in the hope that their voice of sobriety will be taken into account. We really have no doubts in the Group. At the referendum, we will vote exactly as we voted in the National Assembly. We strongly support the Arbitration Agreement and also support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, ministers. On 5 June 2001, the members of the Slovenian People's Party introduced a resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in Istria and the sea on this day. Almost nine years ago, we wrote in the motion for a resolution exactly what we say today. Nine years ago, we wrote, inter alia, in the resolution, 'The Republic of Slovenia will be based on the foundations of international instruments and national historical economic and other national interests in determining the borderline between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia at sea and Istria. Based on the historical fact that the Slovenian nation has always been maritimeally directed to the victims of anti-fascist resistance in the Slovenian coast before and during World War II, and to the independent war in 1991 and on the basis of the Basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution of Slovenia, the Memorandum of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the Gulf of Piran, the opinion of the Arbitration Commission, the peace conference in Yugoslavia, and on the basis of international acts and the principles of success at the dissolution of Yugoslavia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes. First time. The Bay of Piran and the settlement near Dragonji are Slovenian. The territory of the Republic of Slovenia is that territory which, in principle, was forwarded by the Republic of Slovenia on 25 June 1991. The territory of the cadastral municipality of Sečovlje, the sea area of the Piran Bay with the status of inland sea waters and territorial access to the open waters of the Adriatic Sea are part of a single and indivisible country, over which the Republic of Slovenia must maintain full state sovereignty in the future. Another time. Slovenia is not limited to proposals for the state border. The border between the socialist republics of today, as a republican border, has never been established. Slovenia thus has the legitimate right to propose land and sea borders, and to demarcate it offers well-founded bases, among which, in the first place, it is indisputable that the Bay of Piran belonged historically to the municipality of Piran, which reached the southern borders of Kaštel and Savudrija. Due to the ecological and cultural importance of the Bay of Piran, it has established a fishing reserve, as an internal Slovenian sea, as well as the indivisible whole of Slovenia, with which Slovenia has been operating since 1954. Third time. Croatian historical debt. The Republic of Slovenia has the legitimate right to propose a fair course of the state border in Istria and at sea and to demand the preservation of the territorial exit to the open sea. In doing so, the Republic of Slovenia refers to the provisions of international law and the Third United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, and relies also on the moral debt of the Republic of Croatia to the Slovenian people, taking into account the historical fact that the western border between the SFRJ and the Republic of Italy was formed only on the basis of the so-called ethical reciprocity that is for the Yugoslav people, and after the collapse of the SFRJ for the Croatian nationality of Istria and the Republic of Dalmatia with the islands on the Italian side of the state border left the autochthon of the Slovenian territories in Tržaška, Videmski and Goriška krajina together with more than 140 thousand Slovenes. The Republic of Slovenia also expects the establishment of a fair border from this title. Fourth time. A fair border in Istria and at sea. On the basis of the findings on a certain national border in Istria and at sea, it is only mutually and freely agreed to be accepted by the Badinter Commission in the light of point 2 of the opinion of the Commission. It follows that it is necessary to point out in advance the territorial status quo, as was the case on the day of independence, and then to negotiate an agreement with the Republic of Croatia on a fair border. The negotiating base must be based on the historical fact of the administrative status of the Piran municipality and thus on the establishment of a state border along the southern border of the former municipality of Piran, thereby preserving the territorial integrity of the Piran Bay and the territorial access of the Republic of Slovenia to the open sea.".. Your Honor, let me repeat this. We first put the motion for a resolution with such content into the legislative procedure nine years ago, in 2001, then again in July 2006 and last in November 2008. In all nine years, despite these attempts, proposals and demands, we have not been able to get these resolutions on the agenda of the home labour force, let alone the National Assembly. So whoever you accidentally read to the Slovenian People's Party in this area, I suggest you think again. For nine years we have pointed to this important fact. Today, we are two weeks ahead of one phase of this process. In nine years, we have obviously managed to convince anyone else within this House, unfortunately still too little. But I believe that we will be able to convince voters and voters at the referendum that the Slovenian territory and the sea must be protected and therefore to reject the harmful arbitration agreement. So let's see. Let us further remind you of two fundamental commitments in the Slovenian People's Party Group: one that we have set ourselves in the National Assembly and the other, as defined by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the highest court in our independent and sovereign country. First time. At the request of the Slovenian People's Party on 18 February 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the protection of Slovenian interests in the integration of Croatia into NATO. The decision says "The Republic of Slovenia notes that the border on land and sea between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, despite the continued efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this issue, has not yet been completed and agreed upon or determined. To respect the situation at the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on 25. 6. The two countries also committed themselves to a joint Brionic Declaration signed on 10 June 2005. Despite the commitment of both parties to respect the situation on the day of independence, the Republic of Croatia has taken a number of unilateral actions and adopted legal acts to amend the territorial status quo on the day of independence, thus attempting to prejudge the resolution of the border issue. In order to protect Slovenia's interests, the Republic of Slovenia, when it acceded to the North Atlantic Treaty, warned that it was rejecting attempts to violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and to change the situation on land and at sea on the day of 25. 6. 1991, when the Slovenian authorities exercised jurisdiction, including in the villages on the left side of Dragonje, on the territory of the left bank of Mura near Hotiz, and when the Republic of Slovenia had territorial contact with the open sea and exercised jurisdiction over the entire Bay of Piran. Another time. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 18 March 2010 in its sentence Opinion on the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the fourth paragraph reads as follows: According to the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is the constitutional protection on land along the former Republic border between Slovenia and Croatia within the framework of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at sea and along the line to which the Republic of Slovenia exercised effective authority to the open sea prior to independence.".. Respectable. These are two commitments, for which it is right to have them in today's debate on the arbitration agreement with Croatia, always before the eyes, and not only in today's extraordinary session, but also in the case of the executive and legislative authorities, we are obliged to take account of these two commitments in our actions. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we find that some of you are not aware of this. We're afraid you're even conscientiously rejecting it. By means of an act of preparation and adoption of an arbitration agreement on the border with Croatia, both of these undertakings are completely ignored and trampled. By means of an arbitration agreement, the rule of law is so ignored and trampled. Unfortunately, this beating of the rule of law has been taking place every day, unfortunately this time also in the most vital Slovenian interests or the basis of Slovenian statehood. By means of an arbitration agreement, the authors, co-authors and co-sponsors of the agreement have carefully overshadowed the decision of the National Assembly, which discusses the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and the rejection of attempts to violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and to change the situation on land and sea of 25. 6. In 1991, when the Slovenian authorities exercised jurisdiction, inter alia, in settlements on the left bank of Dragonje, in the territories on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz and when the Republic of Slovenia had territorial contact with the open sea and exercised jurisdiction throughout the Piran Bay. The author, co-authors and co-authors of the arbitration agreement also took note of the statements in the Constitutional Court's opinion, which clearly and unequivocally states that the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is constitutionally protected, as well as to where Slovenia exercised power on land and sea before independence. Things are as clear as day. So, simple starting points of the sovereignty of Slovenian territory and sea, but Slovenian diplomacy did not know, wanted or wanted this border points to be written in an arbitration agreement on the border with Croatia. Therefore, in the profound conviction of the Slovenian Group of the People's Party, the arbitration agreement from the perspective of Slovenia does not provide for the protection of the constitutionally protected southern border and territory and the sea as we had when we adopted it. However, the cardinal error of the arbitration agreement is that it does not say that the territorial contact of Slovenia with international waters, therefore, with the open sea, is maintained. The referendum campaign has already moved to a deep second half, not from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Samuel Žbogar, or from the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, Slovenian citizens and citizens have not yet received an answer, why is there no territorial contact in the arbitration agreement and why is it only contact? The Foreign Minister, in his public appearance a few days ago, asked the journalist's explicit questions, whether the agreement certainly brings us territorial contact with the open sea, replied only with the answer "This agreement certainly brings contact with the open sea."that is, the Government assures us only that Slovenia only gets some kind of contact with the arbitration agreement, which can be service, corridor, so contact through some kind of corridor, so contact through some kind of corridor of territorial Croatian water, smoker contact, etc. We logically conclude that the arbitration agreement almost certainly loses our territorial contact with the international waters of Slovenia. We expect representatives of the government today to have such a difficult answer for them, why the arbitration agreement does not state that Slovenia must maintain its territorial contact with international waters. Why do you know to territorial contact that this is a quickly corrupting commodity from a market that you can barter with the Croatian Prime Minister, as you like? With regard to the issue of territorial contact, there are so many doubts and fears, and we are witnessing so much diplomatic interference in the style "We have a secure contact and the Croatian President has promised territorial contact" that there is absolutely nothing I can believe in you in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Today you have the historic and last chance to explain this to the Slovenian public, clearly and directly, without overlaps and deceptions. As well as why Italy stopped talking about the problem of setting up a terminal in the Gulf of Markets so confidently. Because she knows that she will soon border the sea completely with Croatia. Why the Slovenian Government is not self-confident in telling both neighbours and the EU and the international public what is an indisputable Slovenian territory and is not willing to negotiate about it. We also expect an answer to the question why the RS Government is blocking Croatia's EU accession negotiations and did not require Croatia to withdraw from private Slovenian territories first. To block and achieve nothing when unlocking is the defeat of Slovenian diplomacy and is an international and national disgrace. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to emphasise that we are committed to strengthening good-neighbourly relations with all countries and we want to strengthen economic cooperation with Croatia and support its entry into the EU. But there is absolutely no reason why we want to do our neighbors good because we support them in their efforts to join the EU, to pay our affections and kindness with the loss of parts of the territory. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we had already expressed our expectation that the referendum debate would be argued and tolerated before the start of the referendum campaign. Unfortunately, we note that the arguments by the Government and the government coalition are very lacking, we are witnessing the incitement to political passwords and insults of all citizens and citizens who think critically about the arbitration agreement and therefore think with their heads. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we invite you to avoid the password and insults in the temple of democracy and to present the arguments to the Slovenian public. The Slovenian People's Party's Group stresses that there are better alternatives to an arbitration agreement, a more fair way to resolve the border issue. You invite us to present a better alternative — we have said it several times before, and you do not want to hear better alternatives on purpose. This is the rejection of the arbitration agreement at the referendum and tell Croatia to withdraw from the occupied Slovenian territory, return to talks and call for an international conference to address all border issues of the former common country. The European Union has made clear its readiness to expand beyond the southeast of Europe. And we ask you what would be more fair than regulating this issue in the whole of the former Yugoslavia. The Republic of Croatia has open border disputes with just all neighbouring countries, not just us, so with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia. If we are sincere about EU enlargement for these three countries, then we see no reason not to solve this problem at once, once and for all. Otherwise, in a few years' time, we will be in a situation where the Republic of Croatia will blackmail neighbouring countries from the position of EU member states due to irregular state borders. And rest assured, given their policy, we are absolutely confident that they will not take on such a slave state as we have taken on by this agreement, the respected Government and representatives of the coalition, we have taken on. When we discuss putting an arbitration agreement on national territory, it is only right to remember how Slovenia has lost its territory in history. The memory of the loss of Trieste, Gorica is still painful, as is the painful memory of the loss of Koroška's work, especially because of the politics in Ljubljana. We believe that the Slovenians do not want another painful stain in their history, we do not want to lose part of our territory with the arbitration agreement, and this time even the status of the maritime state — our territorial contact with the open sea, our window into the world. Respectable. The risk is simply too great. The risk of an arbitration agreement is almost irrational. Not only are we in the Slovenian People's Party, it is pointed out by all the parliamentary opposition, a number of civil society, many prominent Slovenian lawyers, historians, ethnologists, other experts and writers, among whom Boris Pahor himself, is an internationally respected Slovenian writer from Trieste. Let me ask you, "What is right for us?" As we travel through Slovenia these days, we can see on the posters that Croatia has 1246 islands. Let it continue, Croatia has 1777 kilometers of land coast and 4058 kilometers of coastline on the islands. Croatia has 31 000 square kilometres of territorial sea. Slovenia, on the other hand, has a total of 43 kilometres of coastline and 180 square kilometres of sea. So what is the interest of Croatia? Is that an extra mile of coastline on the existing 5,000 miles 835 kilometers?Oh, my God! Is this an additional few square miles on the existing 31 thousand square miles of sea?Oh, my God! It's probably clear to everyone that it isn't. Are they fighting for a just regime of the border or are they fighting to cut Slovenia off from international waters and put it in their subordinate position? Do you think that this data is based on honest and good neighbourly relations?Oh, my God! Friendship, maybe?Oh, my God! None of this, merely a desire to dominate this area and position as the main strategic force in this area of European space. Therefore, I call on all citizens and citizens to take sides with Rudolph Maister and his side and to maintain the Slovenian sea with their vote against the arbitration agreement for generations of our children, grandchildren, grandchildren and all other Slovenians who will face the consequences of our irresponsible actions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Honourable Minister and Ministers, Honourable Secretary of State and Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a decision on clarifying the new circumstances in which the public was informed after a call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In opening, I should like to say that Members of the DeSUS Group agree with and support the proposal of the parent working body. We have already clearly defined and supported the DeSUS Group until the arbitration agreement. Because of some seemingly new circumstances and facts, we will not change our position. We note that the referendum campaign, which will take place here today, in Parliament, unfortunately, is already under way in an inappropriate political dimension. This, of course, causes a lot of confusion, uncertainty, which will certainly adversely affect the participation of the referendum, among the people who should be in their decision to confirm on 6 June 2010. Given that DeSUS is not actively involved in the referendum campaign, Members of the DeSUS do not see any reason for us to engage in a debate which, according to our assessment, is unnecessary in relation to the content of the request for an extraordinary meeting, since it is clear that we will not know anything new and decisively fatal about the content of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. I give the floor first to Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'd like to comment on a few things. Recently, I have been talking a little more to people in Slovenia, as I understand it, is something they value about me, that I answer my arguments with arguments, with facts, not with increased tone, threats or insults. So I will also now try to respond to some of the allegations made this morning. First, remember that we are here today because new facts are supposed to arise. I would like to mention that the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement was adopted in Croatia in November and was also published in the Official Journal of Croatia, in the National Gazette, on 24 November 2009. So this is a law which, including that Article 3 has been publicly available since November, it is said that this is not a new fact. I would like to recall the report on the negotiations for an arbitration agreement presented by the Government to the National Assembly, which was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy on 3 November 2009 and adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. This report also informed the Government of the danger of Croatia making a unilateral declaration before or after the signature; this was mentioned in the report or the Committee was informed. I will just read the text of the report, where we wrote "Although no unilateral declaration to the agreement was envisaged in the negotiations and the agreement is intended for signature, following a decision of the Parliament concerning the agreement, Croatia should unilaterally declare that nothing in the agreement constitutes Croatian agreement with the Slovenian territorial requirement of contact with the open sea. If Croatia makes such a unilateral statement, Slovenia will respond to such a statement by saying that it will reject the Croatian declaration, stating that nothing in the agreement must be interpreted as a waiver of Slovenia's territorial contact with the high seas, stating that arbitration will only interpret the agreement as such, given the normal meaning of the terms in its provisions, and this also includes the provision of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Agreement, this sequence of points does not prejudge the order of the arbitration decision. In the event that unilateral statements may be made by Croatia as witnesses to third countries, Slovenia will carry out the same procedures after signing the agreement and at the time of ratification. A draft unilateral statement was also submitted. So the Government reported to the Foreign Policy Committee on the possibility that Croatia would make such a statement. The report also states that, in the case of the unilateral declaration of Croatia at the time of signature, Slovenia would not have signed or ratified the arbitration agreement. So it's not a new fact either. I can confirm again, as the Prime Minister of the Government has already said, that no statement has been agreed with Croatia, nor has Slovenia agreed to any declaration, nor to a statement or to the content of a statement relating to the content of the agreement. Everything that has been agreed is included in the agreement, in the arbitration agreement. Interesting logic was expressed here a little earlier to prove that we didn't do anything. That's what I think is made of logic. It is also said that Croatian claims have still been confirmed as true. Declarations that they've always been confirmed. I would point out that at the beginning of last year Croatia insisted when Commissioner Rehn began negotiations that the border dispute should be decided alone and exclusively by the Interstate Court in The Hague. The former President Mesic spoke about this very much. So now we're on ad hoc arbitration. I would like to point out that Croatia had adopted the first Rehn proposal, had ratified it already in the assembly, and had not even been signed in the Assembly, but had later resigned that it had rejected the second Rehn proposal as completely unacceptable and had now accepted it in this agreement. I would like to remind you that there is still a reception on the release of negotiations. As early as September, there was a speech that Croatia did not accept Rehn's second proposal, even on the Foreign Policy Committee, we heard about the fact that we were freeing negotiations while obviously we had nothing in our pocket. So, so many statements have been confirmed by Croatia so far. And this statement was confirmed today by two foreign representatives who are supposed to testify to such a statement or who are to be notified together of this joint declaration. The Swedish Ambassador, again, denied that Croatia, together with Slovenia, would be informed by the Swedish Presidency of its unilateral statement. I think the statement is very clear. The US business executive also made a statement that the Croatian declaration annexed to the arbitration agreement was unilateral in all respects. "The claims that the parties jointly notified America of this declaration are completely wrong," he argued. So that I think that these two deny it, if the Slovenian government does not already believe in it, let it be believed in the governments of the two countries which clearly deny this fact, that this statement was harmonised between Slovenia and Croatia and that Slovenia has thus given some agreement to it. Croatia has adopted a unilateral declaration following the signing of the Agreement on 9 November and in accordance with the Vienna Convention, the law of international treaties, paragraphs 19 and 20, having legal effect only unilateral declarations given at the time of signature, and are later without legal effect unless other States Parties agree with them. In doing so, I would also like to recall, once again, a statement by Sweden denying that they would have witnessed any unilateral statement or rejected it. The Ambassador speaks of the proposal that the Swedish Presidency should have witnessed such a unilateral statement, which they rejected, which is also an act in itself. While reservations are characteristic of multilateral contracts, they are not bilateral contracts. In the case of bilateral contracts, the issue of reservations is not generally raised. A Party which has reservations must first negotiate if it wishes to enforce this reservation, otherwise such reservation shall not be in force. And here I would quote an international commission for law saying that "a unilateral declaration no matter how it is named or formulated, which is accepted by the State after initialisation or signature and before it enters into force and in which, by declaration, the State intends to make a certain amendment to the agreement, does not constitute a reservation" under these guidelines of this Commission. On 19 November 2009, Slovenia, both by a statement by the Prime Minister of the Government and also by a note from Croatia, as well as Sweden and the United States, responded to this unilateral statement, also made its statement, firstly denied all the statements made by Croatia and also made its statement. In a letter, the President of the Government, in a statement adopted by Croatia after signature and before ratification and sent by Croatia to the Presidency of the European Union and the United States of America, first found that the sovereign right of States to make a unilateral declaration, while at the same time confirming that there was no consensus on the part of Slovenia to make a declaration or on the content of the declaration. After this he also gave Slovenian interpretation of the contact of Slovenia with the open sea as set out in Article 3.b. So there are no new facts, which is essentially why today's debate is going on. The action of Croatia also clearly shows that the agreement is bad for Croatia and that it wants to change the content somehow by its subsequent act or declaration, which cannot be changed, you cannot change the bilateral agreement which you have signed and cannot be taken into account by the arbitral tribunal in its decision-making. Earlier, there had been a discussion of Article 10 in the arbitration agreement, which referred to the status quo. This is not a status quo as explained, it is a standard article in which the parties undertake to maintain the situation in the context of the debate and the ruling of the arbitral tribunal in that they will not aggravate the situation, that there will be no incidents, that there will be no unilateral acts, that they will avoid any acts that would make it difficult to decide the court. Only in this sense is this article written down, otherwise the mandate of the arbitral tribunal is clearly set out in Article 5, where the State of the Court of Arbitration is addressed at Article 25. 6. and in other articles where there is a discussion of the principles on the basis of which the arbitral tribunal is to decide. I would answer a question or comment on a campaign to be conducted illegally by the Government, although we have written about it in detail in the material you received, where we wrote that the Government is not the initiator of the referendum on the arbitration agreement and therefore cannot carry out the referendum campaign and all that is legally possible for the organiser of the campaign is advertising, postering, public meetings, sending publications, the government and the ministry to do so and not to do so. However, the Government, as a proponent and signatory to the arbitration agreement, fully legitimately wishes to inform the Slovenian public of the reasons for signing and ratifying, its contents, the history of resolving the border issue, other options for resolving this issue, the concept of a challenging international legal topic that voters face with various other documents relating to the arbitration agreement, as well as the answers to the questions raised in this arbitration agreement in public. All this is done by the Government in the context of regular, regular communication with the public through its established channels of communication and without additional budgetary resources or external agencies. The government's website and the government's open phone are two well-established communication practices of the government with the public. On the government website, it is customary for important government projects such as crisis and exit from crisis, climate change, pandemic flu and similar topics to prepare a special chapter where this issue is addressed or interpreted. The same was done for the question of the referendum or arbitration agreement. This chapter, with all the documents, arguments, history and terms, allows visitors to generate their views on the arbitration agreement and its meaning. The government phone has been a way of communicating since 1998 and is dedicated to answering the questions of callers on current government and European topics. The phone number and a special chapter on the government website have not been advertised in the media or on paying websites. The links to a special chapter and the reference of open telephone numbers on the websites of ministries and government services are also common issues that have been customary there in the past. Also, the press conference of ministries, the response to press requests for interviews and participation in current political broadcasts cannot be qualified for the implementation of the referendum campaign or the violation of the law, and the same applies to the participation of ministers at party events at which they are specifically invited. The government is not and will not carry out referendum campaigns or violate the relevant Law on the Referendum Campaign. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Mr Janez Janša has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Apparently, there are new facts, given what we have just heard, and given what the President of the Government said earlier. When he quoted a statement from the Swedish Embassy at the beginning of his performance. After nine months of the adoption of the law in the Croatian Parliament, the Swedish Embassy found time to deny part of the content of the law on ratification of the agreement, which the Croatian Parliament confirmed by 90%. Sweden has an embassy in Zagreb and was certainly informed in November last year when the law adopted what the law states. Sweden did not deny it. The United States also has an embassy in Zagreb, and they were certainly informed of what the Croatian law says, and they did not deny it. After nine months, they denied it, and that is certainly a new fact. For, first of all, it is necessary to say that each country can peacefully overrun the statement made by its ambassador or diplomatic representative after a while, if it seems to her that someone had to be sacrificed, this has happened many times so far, but so far it has not been and we take for granted what they say, both at the Swedish Embassy and the United States, and that of course means that Croatia has written a lie in the law. If we apply here, as you said before, international law, which we must trust, is such a way of ratifying under Article 49 of the Vienna Convention on Contractual Law of Fraud. The State which has been led to the conclusion of another State which has participated in the negotiations with fraud may refer to fraud, which makes the consent to be bound by the Treaty null and void, according to Article 49 of the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. So, if this is true, as the Swedish Embassy's statement or the United States business executive's statement suggests, by the way, the United States can tell the President of the Croatian government Kosor directly, as he is visiting the White House today. I wonder if this is going to be exposed if the United States has been abused after recklessly in the Croatian Parliament, America will certainly react harshly and we will see it today. But if it is a game to fool Slovenian voters, then there will be no reaction. This is gonna be a really interesting test. Well, anyway, if this is true, as the so-called witnesses of this agreement have said, then Croatia cheats. It will also be very interesting to hear what Croatia will say to this statement. We are talking about a matter that has not been formulated by the opposition in this House, neither by any civil society, nor by any international legal expert on its own behalf, but we are talking about a text that is an integral part of the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement. On an official document which has a legal weight greater than the statement of an ambassador. But if this statement is true, Croatia has cheated us and also our own public and own parliament, the Croatian Parliament, when it claimed something that is not true. Slovenia has all the legal reasons to declare this agreement null and void and dead if it turns out to be true. Well, it's not true that there are no new facts. Some claims have also been made that need to be answered. The Briony Declaration has nothing to do with the denial of the right that Slovenia had at the time of its independence. The Briony Declaration is a declaration on the avoidance of incidents and the Briony Declaration is that formal act, so far the only one in force that gave up Croatia's unilateral steps after independence. This has not been achieved by this agreement; this has been achieved by the Brionic Declaration. Nor is it true, as has been said today, and as much of an explanation as we have seen, that Slovenia has resigned from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement with the Brionic Declaration. The Briony Declaration put on the sidelines unilateral acts that had taken place and which could have prejudged the border after the independence of both countries. The Drnovšek-Račan Agreement was not a unilateral act. This was an agreement that both sides initialled and was an agreement. So Briony's statement is in no way and at no point has he cancelled the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and do not speak this nonsense. By the way, to the previous subject and to deny what the Croatian law says, our President of the Government repeats on every occasion how he created an honest relationship and deep trust with his Croatian colleague. Does this profoundly sincere relationship of respect and trust also belong to the fact that the Croatian government has proposed a statement to its own parliament, in which it is obviously not only one, but are two fat lies, which, by the way, are very flimsy about him. This is indeed an honest attitude and a relationship of mutual respect, if, of course, the truth is that what is written in the Croatian law does not. But if it's true, then it's the other way around. Today we have heard that I will not be interrupted as my colleague Jelinčič, I will not say a fat lie, I will say a lie from the mouth of the President of the Government when I say that there is exactly the same diction in this arbitration agreement that Drnovšek-Račan signed on his own regarding contact. The Drnovšek-Račan Agreement, which is called the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the Common State Border, and which we have attached to it - I hope that you have received it or that you will make sure of it - does not contain any form of contact in this sense or, rather, in this text, as recorded in this disputed arbitration agreement. The Drnovšek-Račan agreement discusses contact directly in two places, but the formulation is always clear and clear and talks about territorial contact or exit. First of all, this is discussed in Article 3, which sets a lateral limit and this part of the article reads 'except in the area of contact of the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea'. It talks about the area of contact of the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea, not the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which can be anything. And in Article 4, this dictatorship is repeated, in Article 4, paragraph 2, of this Agreement, it is said that "the breadth of the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia to the open sea is the same distance from point B" and so on. There is no contact between Slovenia and the open sea. It is a contact of the territorial sea of Slovenia with the open sea. A very clear and unequivocal diction. You're not deceiving the Slovenian public. If the services will share this agreement with you, you will be able to see for yourself, and this is not the first time today, we are listening to this through the entire campaign to make it about the same thing. The Prime Minister is also asking all those who oppose this arbitration agreement, but where have we been for 18 years? Any Government of the Republic of Slovenia; Drnovškova, Bajukova, Ropova or in our mandate could at any time sign an agreement with Croatia in which it would agree to an ancient Croatian request that the border be established under international law at any time. And Croatia insisted and waited right next to the Pahor government that had agreed to do so. So, don't ask stupid questions about it. As far as the claim is concerned, we're in a hurry. More than a third of the countries that are members of the European Union do not have all their border issues solved with neighbours. Belgium and the Netherlands do not have a certain limit at sea exit. They have both been members of the European Union for 50 years. No one gives in. If borders in the European Union were not important, then this issue would have been resolved long ago, and two of the six founding members of the European Union are still apart at this point. Do not talk about how Slovenia fell the flag after 18. The President of the Government has probably asked a rhetorical question here for the hundredth time, if you, those who are against this agreement, have no alternative. I've answered that question at least a hundred times, and it didn't help anything. Then we wrote it. The President of the Government obviously does not see this because he is elsewhere, but we have also written and distributed these three alternatives, which we have been repeating as parrots since the signing of this agreement, in Slovenia and have reasoned them long and wide. And that constant question is already offensive. We've written it, it's not to say that the arbitration agreement has no alternative. There are better solutions. First time. An agreement expressly stating that the court must set a limit on the principle of knowledge and justice, on which consensus was reached or agreement reached between Slovenian parliamentary parties in 2007. Another time. The alternative is also an agreement that will unequivocally state that the signatories agree that Slovenia has a Piran Bay and a territorial exit into international waters. And the third time. The alternative is also the ratification of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, which represents an acceptable compromise for Slovenia to establish the southern border, a minimum of the minimum that Slovenia could possibly agree to. So, there are alternatives, we've told them many times, and we don't cheat. The same was said here to prove that the agreement you ratified was essentially an agreement between Rehn2. It is not true, and it is also possible to verify that if you want, we will also reproduce Commissioner Rehn's proposal for you. In that proposal, in addition to the other differences, Commissioner Rehn also proposes an essentially different timeline in favour of Slovenia, as you have signed it. In fact, Commissioner Rehn suggested that the arbitral tribunal decide within one year to start working immediately after the ratification of the agreement and to decide within one year. Thus, at a time when the arguments and negotiating points of Slovenia are the strongest. After the strong negotiations and the great efforts you have made to reach this agreement, as you say, you have come from this good proposal by Commissioner Rehn into the formulation that is now in the agreement, which says that the arbitral tribunal will start working only after Croatia has already signed the accession treaty. And there's no deadline for a verdict. This was Croatia's second eternal wish to resolve this problem before the international institution. They have always wanted such a time frame that would shift the result indefinitely, because Slovenia has lost its negotiating advantage at this time. And now you've given this to Croatia. So this isn't Rehn2. Once again, the President of the Government has stated this publicly, he must be asked to read the Rehn 2 agreement — evidently not. It was also said that it is high time for this agreement, that this is a busy time, that tense relations are, that Croatia concludes negotiations, that a new blockade is not a solution. First of all, the blockade, as set by the current government, has been set up, nicely said, unwisely. And it is not true that this government has just continued the blockade that our government has already begun. It is true that in the negotiations many times or more, whenever necessary, we have asked Croatia to withdraw certain documentation, and Croatia has done so before, because we did not put those requirements in front of the camera and immediately politicized them. And also in October 2008, we asked Croatia to withdraw this documentation until the end of the negotiating process, and we said we would not give the green light if it did not withdraw it. However, we did not allow the opening of negotiations with the withdrawal of documentation, which is unrealistic because it is necessary to amend legal acts that are not possible overnight. Well, then Mr Pahor's Government came and added another one to these conditions, which sounded extremely witty and laughed at by the whole European Union or those who heard it. This condition was that Croatia must not only withdraw this documentation, but that Croatia must also sign that none of this documentation will ever be submitted to any court or institution if this border dispute is resolved before a third party. So the Slovenian government has laid down a condition that no one has given him. You can't ask anyone if you expect to go to court with him to give up the argument he thinks he has to prove his point. At that time, I spoke to many of my fellow speakers across Europe, and they were all just cruising over this condition. And then the pressure on Slovenia started, and this pressure had some real basis. On the one hand, we had a Slovenian government saying: Croatia will not continue negotiations until we resolve the border issue. Mr Pahor did not then say that he would block Croatia until it withdrew the documents, but then, after several statements which I could quote from newspapers and are recorded on cameras, said that Slovenia would not withdraw reservations or reservations to continue negotiations until we had resolved the border issue. So much for blockades and so much for diplomatic behavior. Three months of listening to this. And then through some quiet diplomacy, which meant that the three of them were negotiating, and the rest of us didn't know anything, and we had to be quiet, came 180% backwards, and we have this agreement. And now we are talking about how Slovenia is blocking Croatia is not an option. And it's using some kind of vocabulary used by the government's side, and I'd rather expect it to be in another country. Firstly, Slovenia is not blocking anything at this time. Croatia is negotiating, continuing technical preparations for entry into the European Union, adopting European standards as many as possible. The disagreement over the text in the Arbitration Act shows no indication of European standards in Croatia if the Swedish Ambassador's declaration is made, technically Croatia is moving towards the European Union, irrespective of the many other obstacles it has. So, Slovenia is not blocking anything right now. Croatia has been blocking — and since 1992 — the Slovenian right to territorial exit into international waters. A right that Croatia did not block at the time of its independence, but explicitly recognised. Show me a map of Croatia on which the Gulf of Piran is called the Bay of Savudri, which was printed before 1992. You won't find him. That came out later. Since then, Croatia has been trying to block the Slovenian way into international waters, instead of telling me very clearly and frankly, we are talking about how we should not block them. This is one such concentration of slave politics, which has already cost Slovenia a lot throughout history, and we thought that 20 years ago the word was finally given to such behavior. There is also great manipulation when we talk about time and time spent, even the process itself, when the debate took place in Slovenia or how the discussion did not take place, how the content of this agreement was hidden before the signature. It was extremely urgent that the President of the Government did not have time to postpone his signature for any day in order to seek agreement with the opposition or with much of the profession, even though he had been asked to do so and that, in itself, it should have been based on the practice and principles of political culture, as well as common sense — the agreement had to be signed on the door to the nose. And then, of course, Croatia ratified it on the nose with the law that we have before us today. Then there was no rush for once. The Government, by its own decision or the Government, has sent its own decision to the Constitutional Court. And it took a few months. And now it's the end of May when we discuss this and we're before the referendum. With this manipulation the government has, of course, brought this referendum in time before summer holidays, counting on this factor to provide any additional votes for. Now, if we look at this whole process, how it ran, how it was hiding from the Slovenian public and the opposition, and how fast it was to sign it, and how suddenly it was no longer in a hurry, it is even more clear that it was a perfidious manipulation. There is talk of distrust of international law. I counted, and five debaters here before me said that the opposition that opposes this agreement expresses a lack of confidence in international law. On the contrary. It is well known how to draw a border line under international law. There are no dilemmas here and it is not a question of trust or distrust, but it is known how to decide under international law when it comes to boundaries, in circumstances like ours. We know that. It's in Croatia. It's in the EU. That's what the other one knows, now, once hidden, now we're seeing an already-discovered witness of the United States. And that is also known by all potential arbitrators who will decide. We know what legal practice is, there are hundreds of these cases. If you don't believe me, I can quote Dr. Wolf who's talking about it. He wrote in his study, which he did not write after the Blejski meeting, but three weeks earlier, that, in the event that the border is established under international law in a situation such as Slovenia, no other solution can be expected than the middle line. Mr Vlačič adds that, in the case of specific circumstances, international law can also take into account the principle of equality, that is to say internal justice, what you have in this agreement, but also here international practice shows that, in the light of the principle of internal justice or equality, the central line can only be slightly broken against one or the other coast, but cannot be distorted. However you draw the line from the Bay of Piran, you will reach the Italian territorial waters. So, it is not a matter of mistrust in international law, it is a matter of behaviour that makes the decision on the border under international law, and there was a total consensus in Slovenia in 2007. At that time, no representative, none of the current government parties claimed otherwise. This is recorded in magnetograms and is in studies under which experts are signed, some of which today speak differently. Therefore, there was also a disagreement that international law, setting a border under international law for Slovenia, was not an option. And then there was a unanimous formation of three conditions under which Slovenia is willing to go before the Hague Court, before an international arbitration, before any third party who would judge these matters and this condition was represented by Slovenia in a uniform manner until the arrival of the current government. It has also been said that the signing of this agreement and what we now have is a huge achievement that has not yet been achieved by anyone. I have already said that any Slovenian Government would sign such an agreement, where the border is established under international law with any Croatian government, at any time, and of course this should be added here. Any Slovenian government would probably get a simple majority so far to ratify such an agreement in Parliament as you have received it. No Slovenian government, not until now and not in the future, would have succeeded in signing such an agreement if the Slovenian constitutional regime were respected because it would count on a two-thirds majority, which means coordination would be necessary. Obviously, the intention here was to solo, built into this calculation from the very beginning, and so it seemed to have been in such a hurry, and that is why there was no coordination here. Now all of a sudden we're the ugly one who's supposed to be against, like, like someone said before, we should buy from power everything that comes, whether it's good or bad, and if you don't take it a little bit that's not the enemy of the state. A rumor very similar to that of 25 years ago. It was said that the decision on this agreement was at the referendum to decide whether to go back or forward, whether to go into the future or in the past. It's a very used phrase and it doesn't make sense to comment on the surface. I would point out, however, that from history, we can learn from both our own and many other cases in other environments that criminal regulation of the border does not constitute any guarantee of peaceful coexistence and of peaceful building of the future. Among others, yesterday the Commission's statement Justice and Peace of the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference drew attention to this fact. The objective is therefore a just border, only a just border that will be adopted, which will not cause new injustices. In Slovenia, these injustices have occurred in recent centuries, in fact, from period to period. Only a fair border, which, as such, will be accepted on both sides, can lay the foundation of a new quality co-existence between the Slovenian and Croatian people, which is what we all want. The criminal limit will not ensure that. And the responsibility of those who support an agreement in which there are no guarantees is even greater in view of this fact. Well, I would also like to reply to the representative of the party Zares, Mr Yuri, who here has said some obvious facts, one of which I have already denied. He said that, for the first time in the previous government, we had heard of the principle of knowledge of justice after Mr Vlačič had written that study after the meeting. First of all, Mr Vlačič wrote that study before the Blaze meeting and was appointed by the Foreign Ministry not only with him, but also with some other experts. The principle of external justice was one of the conditions for an agreement with Croatia before that near meeting, and since Croatia did not agree to it, even the agreement did not come to an agreement, we agreed only to set up commissions that would try to establish a legal framework for this dispute. And never did the Slovenian government, in our mandate, deviate from this principle, consistently advocated it, but options were developed, through which the agreement could also write the actual situation as it was 25. 6. 1991, and then that word should not be used. And in that draft, with which the Minister often waved, the right of Slovenia to territorial exit to the open sea was contained and not only that, there was also the right to division of sea zones into international waters belonging to a country that had a territorial exit into international waters. But we have already explained this many times, and I do not know why Mr Juri, who we also corrected yesterday at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, keeps telling this lie. That's on purpose now. Let's take a look at the date of the Flemish meeting, which was the last weekend in August 2007, and the date of Mr Vlačič and Mr Grbac's study, which was published on the websites. Even more interesting is its criticism of the Demos government, which is supposed to misplace certain border crossings in Istria between Slovenia and Croatia. First, at the time of independence, no border crossings were established, temporary checkpoints were set up and such status was clearly established. Today, the establishment of these checkpoints is criticised by a Member who was also a Member in 1991 and who opposed any border between Slovenia and Croatia in 1991. Here I have his public letter, published on 22 June 1991, in which he tells Slovenian authorities and civil society: "I will not be. I say that I will not be at the celebration of Slovenia's independence. I'd rather go home, watch the sea, the breadth, the world. Because the Executive Council of the Republic of Slovenia puts us in these days before an effective state border is established with neighbouring Croatia. It is true that, at this stage, only with some characteristics of the real state, but also in Istria, we will obviously get three border crossings with appropriate control facilities and with the presence of police and customs, which will have a drastic impact on people's lives. Now we finally see the true face of the official understanding of plebiscite will." And then a long explanation of why it's actually against the border. Cynicism is unprecedented that today someone is clearly setting temporary checkpoints in the wrong place. At the time when it was actually about independence, it was against any border with Croatia, it is said, it was against independence. The paper obviously takes everything, especially if it takes some time. Mr Juri is the last person to be able to tell anyone anything about the border between Slovenia and Croatia. For he was against the fact that this limit would ever arise. It was against Slovenia being created as an independent state and boycotted its proclamation and publicly praised it. Therefore, the arguments of those who were against Slovenia and who today say that this arbitration agreement is good do not convince me, indeed not. Even if you hadn't listened to what they're saying, you wouldn't have convinced me. Well, as far as the alternatives are concerned, when the Prime Minister arrives, I will also hand him the written alternatives. I hope he reads them, that we won't hear for hundreds of years that we don't have them and that we don't know how to propose anything. I would also add that, unlike what he said in his performance, I do not see any reasons why Slovenia would be in a hurry. Slovenia does not need to now ask Croatia to agree to one of these alternatives. It's enough to open them up. Croatia can choose, we can start negotiations on the one we are closest to each other. One option is to continue the peace conference on the former Yugoslavia. It's not a forbidden thing. Most of the borders have been resolved more or less fairly at such conferences if issues remain open. And there are many in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, as far as the border is concerned. It has already been said by a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party that Croatia does not have a legally formal solution to any border issue, nor does it have a ratified border agreement with neighbouring Hungary. Such border issues are open to Croatia with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Montenegro, this case is now before an international court. Interestingly, this is the Bay of Boka Kotorska in the dispute between Croatia and Montenegro. Because Croatia has a part of the coast on one side of the bay and Montenegro on the other side. And Croatia agreed in this case that until the decision of the court, Montenegro controls the entire bay of Boka Kotorska. In Slovenia, however, not only have the right to the Bay of Piran, but even the name has been changed for its use. Croatia also has major border problems with Serbia. This is another reason why Slovenia is not naive and does not rush. There's no need for any anxiety, as it appears. This arbitration agreement must be rejected and then negotiated on one of the three, four alternatives that exist and reached an agreement at a time when Slovenia has a negotiating advantage if you do not lose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Let me just say that for the first time, Croatia does not even have an orderly border with Hungary. I was convinced that the Badinter Commission had already said that the external borders of Yugoslavia were valid as those which are now new borders between the new countries and those countries that were already sovereign and independent by then. Moreover, I know that the Helsinki Charter had already definitively determined in the 1970s that the borders in Europe were complete. Well, there may have been some new moment in this regard, some new situation that we have not yet known about. However, it is clear to me personally why the opposition rejects the arbitration agreement, often to be completely unworthy, false and militant rhetoric. This government has managed to achieve a solid, best and probably best-performing agreement with the neighbouring country on how we will resolve the mutual agreement on the settlement of the border dispute between the two countries for almost two decades. It also casts a bad light on the country, on the holding and reputation of both countries in the international community, especially within the European Union. That this has been achieved by this government, however, the opposition is obviously very nervous. In the mandate of the previous government, when both governments on both sides were also politically complementary, the Slovenian former government was able to pronounce a mere ruling at the Interstate Court in The Hague, with the express assurance of the Croatian side that the latter would also not agree, under the principle of "ex aequo et bono", to the Interstate Court in The Hague, if it were to, rule under the rule of great, strict international law. But let me say here, very interestingly, because in recent days I have heard a lot of criticism from the opposition at the expense of the textbook of the President of the Republic, a professor of international law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, of how he dared to record that Slovenia is a geographically sealed or disadvantaged country. I went to look at what Dr. Danilo Türk wrote, and, of course, on page 445 found that he merely commented on the United Nations Convention on the International Law of the Sea and said: "a special situation arises when, due to the geographical tightness of the country in a given area, they cannot declare the maximum permissible breadth of the territorial sea. [[...]] This is the case where their land territories are situated opposite each other or with the other. In both cases, Article 15 of the 1982 Convention applies, according to the United Nations Convention on the International Law of the Sea, under which, where there is no agreement establishing any other arrangement, neither of these two countries shall extend its territorial sea over a central line where each point is equally distant from the nearest points of the baselines. This Regulation shall not apply where, for reasons of historical address or other specific circumstances, delimitation is to be otherwise regulated, as the United Nations Convention states. And then, the middle line rule is dispositive, there are so many international experts here today, right now, that you know for sure what it means when it's said that the middle line rule is dispositive. The Convention specifically mentions the possibility that the States may, by agreement, arrange the border at sea in a different way. Equally important is the provision in the same Article 15 of this Convention not to apply the central line rule at all if a different solution is necessary due to historical address or other specific circumstances. So much for the United Nations Convention in International Law of the Sea and what the Professor of International Law, Dr. Danilo Türk, has said in his textbook and has literally taken over the provisions of the United Nations Convention on International Law of the Sea. Now, here we are, suddenly becoming a major problem that the principle of ex aeque et bono is not explicitly mentioned in the arbitration agreement, but is, in truth, lovingly described in terms of content, in the way that justice and the principle of good-neighbourly relations are stressed in order to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances. But now these arguments mean nothing either, because the opposition has come up with a new quasi argument, more precisely, once again misleading the public that an arbitration agreement should be interpreted in kind, such as the sorted articles or points in individual articles, somehow successful. Most perversely, however, the opposition refers to the Vienna Convention on International Contract Law, which provides for the opposite. For the Vienna Convention provides that an international treaty, and an arbitration agreement, must be interpreted in a well-intentioned manner, in its normal sense, in its context, i.e. comprehensively, and in the light of its object and purpose. You can also check this in the English original, and obviously you can also read the arbitration agreement in the English original when it was previously made clear why all the household received the arbitration agreement also in the English original. It is likely that, in order to avoid any subsequent instigation in our text, in the text ratified by the National Assembly, which will be published in the Official Journal, there is no mistrust that something has not been clayd, as it has been recently highlighted. So the opposition always invents new anti-args, even though they are based on lies and deception. Without a basis for international public law, it predicts how one can only interpret Croatia's unilateral declaration and what legal effects such a unilateral statement by Croatia would have. Yes, as I said in the introduction, the arbitration agreement is solid, even more, it's very good. I doubt that a better agreement could ever be reached later. We have always taken the view that in the border dispute it is necessary to judge the border on land and sea and all the time in Slovenia that it is a critical and starting date 25. 6. 1991. All this arbitration agreement ensures. The decision of the arbitration tribunal will be final and the State will also have to implement it. In accordance with Article 27 of the Vienna Convention, an individual Member may not invoke its domestic law in order to justify non-compliance with the Treaty. But what do you care about all this? Today we are dealing with all of this again at the request of the opposition, if there are some new circumstances that are supposed to speak against the arbitration agreement. And what's new here today? What is new is that in the opposition you have caused the Swedish Ambassador and the United States Embassy of America to respond to your insinuations as to what role these two countries or their representatives have played in the process of concluding an arbitration agreement. I have to admit, you don't have a couple in non-diplomatic conduct, and above all, it's a non-state attitude. The opposition says the arbitration agreement is weak, it is better to remain in force status quo. And what's the status quo? At least here we will be united that the current situation is to the detriment of Slovenia. If the arbitration agreement is not confirmed at the referendum, the opposition leaders will be able to take credit for the fact that Croatia will be able to wash its hands nicely, saying, "we were prepared to negotiate, we agreed on solutions that are not optimal for us, but we were unable to influence how they will implement and implement the arbitration agreement with us in Slovenia". Croatia will thus be able to wash its face against the EU as it acted Europeanly in the spirit of European good-neighbourly values. I think that especially the champions of the opposition parties will deserve the highest Croatian national medals for exceptional merits and a contribution to Croatia's international reputation and position. If you don't already deserve King Tomislav's medal with the Lenta, at least King Peter Kreshimir IV. with a Lento. For pre-election purposes, however, an additional incident in the Gulf of Piran will also be available in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Mr. Mag. Zerjav, do you want to come by as your proposer? You're the first to raise your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Of course, I thank you for the kind words of my predecessor. But as I have already announced in my opening statement, the fact is that we are still listening today to how unnecessary this meeting is, how the opposition should be silent and polite to the opinions and thinking of our government, so we should listen and, above all, obey and be silent. And I say to myself, thank God there's no "Gole Island" anymore, because they'd probably have packed us all there by then, and sealed us airtightly to keep quiet, and you'd be doing whatever you wanted. We are a democratic state, and everyone can express his or her opinion. Everyone can give their opinion. Everyone. By the way. Since it was quoted, I didn't want to, but because what was cited was appropriate for the coalition, I'm going to read something else that our president wrote in his textbook. You read from page 445, three pages forward, on page 448, below, writes the last sentence, "Slovenia is a typical example of a geographically disadvantaged country and belongs to 10 coastal countries whose coast is less than 100 kilometres". That's what our president wrote down, too. But no, I want to talk more argumentatively and substantively. Someone's been reading today. We're showing maps. Yes, and we will continue to show them because this is the only way to explain this complex situation to people in an accessible way. But you don't want to, and you don't want to show any maps. Why not? It is our responsibility to present to people what solutions are possible. and, of course, as a result, what are the risks or risks to that country. I don't accept this fact, the arbitrators will do what they will do, and we will look at it calmly like cripples and wait for them to take everything away from us. I have said a few times before, I am a chemist, and if we have two Mrs Lavtijar Bebler, I would ask you, I listened to you well when you spoke, I did not comment, be so observant as to listen to me. [[...]] I'm a chemist, and if you tell me two substances locked in a container at a certain pressure and reaction, I'll tell you what's gonna happen. I would expect our experts, our international lawyers, who are in favour of this arbitration agreement, to draw up what will be done on the basis of these frameworks that we have within this arbitration agreement. Article 15, quoted today, states that "for the division of the territorial sea between countries with opposite coasts bordering each other, the use of the equisistance method is envisaged. This shall not apply if the State otherwise agrees or if one of the States refers to a historical address or special circumstances." In my opening remarks, what are the chances of what the middle line is? We have three options. If we apply the historical principle or the historical Gulf, Croatia is entitled to a narrow sea lane along its coastline and this central line is only bent against the Saudi peninsula. That's one option. The second option is to divide these inland waters between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, meaning something similar so that the middle line can be shifted here or there. And the third option is the condominium, which, thank God, we're not talking about. But there is no other option that we have a line along the Gulf of Piran in one way or another that ends in Italian waters. She's not here. Let one of the international lawyers say that this does not hold that this is not true, given that we are setting a limit on the basis of international law. Find one international lawyer who will draw a border across the Gulf of Piranha differently than here, unless she's bent a little bit here or there. And in a situation like this, contact comes into play. Or, in other words, as Mr Mitja Gerbec wrote, it is only a corridor that will be taken into account. The only option is for the corridor. But the question is, what is this corridor? And here are four options, five, six. The joint exercise of sovereignty over this corridor, a type of condominium, a corridor where it would have had open sea status, as was the case with Drnovšek-Račan agreement, separate exercise of sovereignty over this corridor, that one country has sovereignty over the water tower, the other over the bottom, and then, I will say, two more options for the "service path" in the narratives. So the possibility of a non-injurious transition or a so-called transit regime. But this is the corridor. In no case is this corridor owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It's a contact. A trip across the sea, not a luft. And we don't talk about these things. Today we have asked some questions, but we have received virtually no answer. But we got the question of what the alternative is. Will the solution, or does international law allow such a solution, that, with the border, I underline with the border, we reach international waters, or does this exclusively international law, because of our geographical characteristics and a certain border with Italy, allow this? As far as I'm concerned, there's no way. I'm sorry. Let's face it. But no. We prefer to talk about political passwords and accusing each other. This is, of course, the easiest to understand or to do. What's the alternative? First, we need to evaluate the value of what we have on the table. I say, it's like standing in front of a child's river, before someone talked about the train, I say otherwise, we're standing in front of a child's river, and one suggests: let's jump, let's try to swim. There's no bridge, there's no boat. At the same time, it requires an alternative. I jump! I won't jump if I don't believe I'm going to swim across if it's too dangerous, so I won't say it's deadly, I'll drown in that river. [[The ad from the bench.]] I would ask you not to comment when we speak. Someone said, it was necessary to understand the other side, it was meant to understand Slovenia against Croatia. I would turn this understanding upside down and say, Croatia should understand us too. But he doesn't understand us. Due to prestige, image or, if you like, strategic positioning of the Croatian country in the Western Balkans. And this is why they simply challenge us, and they wrote this in their law, territorial access, territorial contact of Slovenia to international waters. Are these good neighbourly relations, please? Do you know what good neighbourly relations are? The case of France and Monaco. France acknowledged Monaco's 88km corridor, which is 3.1 kilometers wide. These are good neighbourly relations. They agreed, of course, bilaterally. But these are good neighbourly relations for me. However, it is not that you, along your neighbor’s thousands of miles of coast and sea, continue to water down those few miles and knowingly disable the window into the world. This, Your Honor, is not a good-neighbourly relationship. It's just not good-neighbourly relations for me. And as far as the alternative is concerned. I have already, not to say a hundred times, but twenty times, but thirty times I have certainly said that the arbitration agreement must first be rejected, then requested from the Republic of Croatia, and this should be required in this arbitration agreement already in order for Croatia to withdraw from the occupied territory. Thirdly, let us resolve the matter at a conference on Yugoslavia or a peace conference, whatever we call it. And Dr. France Bučar has such an attitude. We have the same attitude. And that's the only real alternative for us. Don't tell us we don't have an alternative. And you don't want to show us the maps or what the court's judgment will be, if possible, the options, because you can't draw them differently than we have drawn them, because simple international law, the geographical characteristics of our coast and the existing border with Italy do not allow other options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Yeah. I have now come forward and has a common advantage in procedural terms, and the previous president has not respected these business provisions, so I must now act procedurally. I want to protest, I will make a procedural proposal in the end, against Mrs Beblereva using the Ustak terminology and the opposition label. In fact, she spoke to the opposition leaders. In the morning, the President of Parliament, Mr Jelinčič, stopped just because he said that the Prime Minister was lying. And maybe he had some evidence, so he was stopped, and his word was taken. In this case, nothing happened from the President. And if within your option, Mrs Beblereva, who is not here now, you admire totalitarian criminal and dictatorial regimes and parties, which were also political ancestors of your party, then use these titles of the Ustasha regime, which was totalitarian, dictatorial, criminal, for the presidents and leaders of your party and options. But let us not allow these titles and qualifications to be used against the opposition, which consistently marks the institution of the Quezlin and the criminal regime. And, Mr President, I ask you to take action to reprimand your party member, your parliamentary group, for this outrageous grumbling. However, this association is, of course, particularly significant today in this debate. In view of this agreement, you also confirm some of the origins of the Ustak state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, you know that I did not hold a meeting at the time of Mrs Lovtišar Bebler's discussion. You are well aware that you have responded substantively in a somewhat equally offensive manner and I can only ask all of you, Members and Members, to speak as much arguments as possible during the debate and to insult each other as little as possible, but I have no hope that this will apply to everyone. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Good-bye to all of you! How nice and how good it would be for Slovenia if the President of the Government were more involved in measures for the benefit of the Slovenian economy and not with foreign policy. He gave his starting point that he had to first regulate the field of foreign policy in order to become more committed to the field of the Slovenian economy. This claim is, at the same time, tragically unrealistic. Tragicism, and this is also a new information, a new argument, because it is only 3 days old, you can find in an interview by Croatian journalist Željko Trkanc, when he said "Luka Koper has become the largest port in the northern Adriatic with an unresolved border issue." Luke Koper is obviously in no hurry, and the competition is confident. That this is also an unrealistic claim, and we all know why the blockade has been declared, the most damaging move in foreign policy that the Pahor government has ever made, which has given us all the reputation in the international community and which has caused us to lose virtually all our allies in the democratic world. They're all on the Croatian side now. In order to divert attention from the failure of the government in the field of economy, from its total economic failure of the current government, Mr Borut Pahor has declared the blockade of Croatia such a harmful wrong move. And by doing so, he has put the state of Slovenia as a hostage against the entire international community because of its ambitions. No one has this legimette. I hope that Mr Pahor will now listen to me because I want to ask him some direct questions to answer them. Not because of me, not because of the National Assembly, but because of the Slovenian public, which has the right to know the clear answers to these questions that I want to ask. In fact, today he has done something that can actually have great international consequences. What's this all about? Croatia published a law in its official paper stating that the Croatian and Slovenian sides jointly informed the Presidency of the European Union and the United States of America of the reservation, which reads: "Nothing in the arbitration agreement between the two governments can be considered as the landing of Croatia at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea." This is also a new information, published in our newspaper just two or three days ago. However, today Mr Pahor has argued that this is not true, that it is completely false and he has also proved this by two letters, by letter from the Ambassador of Sweden and by letter from the United States. Do you know what this has to do with constitutional law or international law? In fact, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accused the neighbouring country of ratifying the arbitration agreement with fraud, which, under the Vienna Convention, is the reason for its nullity in article 49. That's a serious accusation. This could have major consequences. Which is why I am asking him publicly whether he has considered in the future the consequences of such accusations, which he has apparently made to his defence. I can honestly say that I do not believe that Croatia would simply write the United States and the European Union into its law without any reason. It's probably a game of words that will just turn out to be one; we'll see what's really going on. Croatia is too smart and too good of work in the foreign policy area to be credited with anything like this. However, if Mr. Pahor insists on his accusation, then I ask him publicly: Will you now initiate a procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to declare this agreement null and void? For according to the Vienna Convention, this is the reason for the nullity of the agreement. And if they do nothing, is he aware of the responsibility of the Slovenian public? For he has a right to his fundamental principle: he that is silent agrees. This is not about the content to which it has already been negatively defined, but about what is stated in the Croatian law on this common information. Therefore, our government has been brought to the fore by this reservation, which also has international implications. If she has actually been informed, it is essentially some hidden annex; this will be decided at the end by the arbitrators. If it has only been designed as it may have been, then the question is, What status will the arbitrators attribute to it? However, if the President of the Government insists that this is an unrealistic claim and that this is not a new fact, as has been highlighted twice by the President of the Government and by the Foreign Minister, then I ask him publicly: Why have you not triggered any protest, no proceedings in the last seven months, in no way legally objected to the fact that, as the representatives of the Government now claim, in the Croatian law, in the very beginning of the ratification, an unrealistic claim has been written? This answer is precisely due to the principle of silence, agreed by the entire Slovenian public. Some other facts need to be pointed out. Mr Pahor keeps asking the question of alternatives. There have been even attempts at intimidation, if we find ourselves alone, isolated, there will be further conflicts. With this leap from extreme to extreme, the current Slovenian government, when it first declares that harmful blockade, then kneels with an agreement that is bad for Slovenia, then declares its neighbour, accuses the neighbour of ratifying this agreement with fraud. Believe me, the major initiators of the conflict, as you find in the Slovenian government, will not be found, it is in itself reasonable. But when it comes to loneliness, it's ridiculous. We are, however, a member of NATO and the European Union, how we will then find ourselves in isolation. That's obviously a ridiculous claim. But there is something else to be pointed out here. All these threats by what will then happen if the arbitration agreement is rejected, and I sincerely hope that Mrs Vesna Pusic, President of the HNS, will be well denied — this is also a new fact, only a week old — when they asked her what will happen if Slovenia rejects this arbitration agreement at the referendum, how Croatia will react, and they expected a violent reaction. She calmly replied, and I quote, "If the agreement is not confirmed at the referendum, we will have to return to the negotiating table and seek an alternative solution." Citation! So no one will say that these are not new facts. Where's that scarecrow? Croatia is very good in foreign policy, perfect! We could learn a lot from them. And of course they know exactly that they will go to the point where Slovenia will release them, and then they will look for an alternative solution for the negotiating table. It is perfectly logical and in line with international standards. Moreover, the rejection of an arbitration agreement at the referendum will mean improving Slovenia's negotiating position not only in front of neighbours, but before the entire democratic community, before the European Union. Take a look at the case of Ireland and France, where they used this democratic institution, which Europe respects far more than, unfortunately, many times, Slovenia. And at the referendums they rejected even the foundation of the European Union, the Constitution. All their demands were much more taken into account in the preparation of later documents, not only for these but also for all others. It is therefore essential, if we want to be taken into account, that we prove that we know how to use international arguments. One more thing, a lot of you were talking about the word "junction" today. In response to Professor Vukas' statement quoted by your former colleague Mark Pavliha, "the word "junction" means the possibility of a connection". In the Webster Society, the first two translations of the word "junction" are the connection and the state of connection. This word is more favourable for Croatia, etc. Those of you who did not believe these warnings that I gave at least 20 times in this Chamber can be sure of this. All the way to the end. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has exercised its jurisdiction and has ruled that the Basic Constitutional Charter is still alive, still sets limits and determines them, of course, exactly as it is on this sketch. That's why you don't want to show these sketches, but this is a sketch that exists right now, this is a sketch that comes out of the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Court's judgment. And no one gives you justice, you have no legitimacy to go beyond that framework. The qualifications I gave on the board yesterday are not mine. It was spoken by your former colleague, former Member and Minister of SD and LDS, Prof. Dr. Mark Pavlih two weeks ago, and then repeated several times, and he certainly knew what he was talking about when he spoke about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Mr Samuel Zbogar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think we have already cleared things up with regard to Croatia's unilateral statement. I think that it has been fully explained by the President of the Government, as on my part, that Slovenia has not given any consent either to the statement or to the content or has not jointly informed the European Union and the United States, and these two countries have also confirmed this. But obviously this is not enough, but it is a matter of repeating itself and I see that the idea is now that if a battle is already lost for this arbitration agreement or against it in Slovenia, it is an attempt to create some confusion in Croatia with what they wrote in their law. What is applicable to the arbitrators and the arbitral tribunal is an agreement signed, giving a mandate and giving instructions to the court on how, on the basis of what to decide. This shall apply to the arbitral tribunal, nothing else shall apply. The unilateral statements, I have explained earlier, have no legal effect. Slovenia also protested as soon as Croatia made a unilateral declaration, after signature and before ratification, and Slovenia did the same. I would like to remind or inform that the negotiators in the Drnovšek - Račan agreement have mainly supported the arbitration agreement. Since there was a lot of talk about contact before, I will also get there, I would like to inform you that of the four negotiators of the Drnovšek - Račan three today in Del expressed their support for this agreement. Only Dr. Pogačnik, who is unknown abroad, does not participate in the campaign, probably for his own reasons, opposes this agreement. However, there were three others, and in particular he would mention the former Secretary of State at the Office of the Prime Minister, who was the chief negotiator, to quote him as saying that, according to him, "it is unrealistic to expect that any further bilateral agreement could be reached after we jointly renounced the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and that, according to him, the third verdict is probably the only remaining way to resolve the border agreement and that the institution of ad hoc arbitration tribunal may be the most neutral and acceptable option in our case and that the court will certainly also have to take into account the solutions contained in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, and that the final solution is also dependent on the composition of the arbitral tribunal, on the preparation of the memorandum and other documents and on the credibility of our argument. This is something we talk little about, but it will be very important when it comes to making decisions. I'd like to clarify about the contact. The contact as a word is taken from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. I understood that Mr Janša, who has spoken about contact, is now having a problem with how Slovenia is defined. The Drnovšek-Račan agreement discusses the contact of the territorial sea with the open sea; this agreement discusses the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. What is Slovenia? If we make an equation, Slovenia is the same land and territorial sea, this is Slovenia. So it's the exact same thing. Finding the difference between Slovenia and the Slovenian territorial sea is an artificial attempt or not a real problem. Obviously, we now accept that this contact, which is also defined in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, connects the direct territorial sea and the open sea. Then I would react here to quoting Vukas and Croatian legal advisers and what they think means contact or not. I think we're very selectively quoting these legal experts. You will recall that almost all legal experts in Croatia have opposed the arbitral tribunal and that Rudolf has also stated that the solution that will come from this arbitral tribunal will be similar to or similar to Drnovšek-Racan, if we are already quoting Croatian legal experts. There was an earlier talk about alternatives. At the invitation of the President of the Government to offer alternatives, three alternatives have been repeated, but they are not alternatives, they are not good alternatives or they are not real alternatives, so the President of the Government repeats again and again, which are the real alternatives. Look, three alternatives were mentioned, and then another one. First, an alternative to the inclusion of ex aequo et bono, external justice. Why? I think that in these debates we have already found that ex aeguo et bono or external justice is an empty shell, a provision in the statute of the interstate court which is important for the functioning of the court, but has never before been decided by the court on this principle, so that it is not known what this principle is. And I would like to recall Dr Pogačnik's legal opinion, which advises the SDS, where before Bled himself expressed his principled concern about the apriority of ex aequo et bono judgment, that ex aequo et bono judgment does not have established practice in front of international judicial bodies, so any extrapolation in the case in question is, in our case, highly speculative, and that it is perfectly sufficient to have justice contained in law. Similarly, the then legal adviser to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advocated the Echoes after the near meeting. So we have an ex aequo et bono, which is a principle that is essentially an empty principle that judges should just add to it some content. It would depend on the judges of the International Court of Justice in The Hague to give him the content. Here, in an arbitration agreement that is not bound by the statute of the interstate court, we have defined ourselves what this substance is, which we see as justice, that it is a just solution, that it is a just and fair solution, that it must judge in fairness, that it must take into account good neighbourly relations, relevant circumstances and vital interests of the countries. All of these are principles that go specifically for the benefit of Slovenia. By insisting on ex aequo et bono in the agreement, not only does it not guarantee a better solution, but we think it poses an excessive risk because it leaves it to the judges to give content to this principle. apart from the agreement, where we have defined it ourselves, and each of these principles is of great benefit to Slovenia. Another alternative is that territorial contact should be discussed rather than contacting Slovenia with the open sea. I have already told you about this contact and how this contact is defined in the Drnovšek - Račan agreement, where there is no talk of territorial contact, even in the judgments that have been before, there is no talk of territorial contact, because contact is something that is called the territorial sea with the open sea. And that's contact. There can be no territorial contact or any other contact. Yesterday at the PDO, I already talked about that we all remember together that we were learning to contact Sava and Donava in Belgrade, so they're pouring into each other or Sava in Donovan, they're contacting directly, not over the bridge, not over some point, but they're pouring out directly. This is also an outpouring of the territorial sea, if you want, into the open sea, even though it's not the right term. The word "territorial" would not change Article 3b in any way. There is no dilemma, which is what Slovenia is talking about in contact with the open sea. We have also explained in detail what this means in our unilateral statement, where we said that the contact of Slovenia with the open sea means territorial contact of the Slovenian territorial sea with the open sea, as it was on 25 June 1991. We have written this in a unilateral statement and it is not true that we have never said what it means to contact Slovenia with the open sea. The third alternative presented is the return to the Drnovšek - Račan agreement, we know exactly when this agreement fell off the table like a dead letter on paper. I would point out that, after the arbitration agreement itself, it is possible at any time for the parties to return to the negotiating table, the bilateral negotiating table, and that the parties themselves reach an agreement. This is possible under international law, but it is particularly stated in this agreement. Whenever we consider that possible, we can return to the negotiating table and sign the Drnovšek - Račan agreement with Croatia, if we believe that this is possible. This is the alternative contained in the arbitration agreement itself. Today another alternative has been mentioned in the air, and this is because Croatia is in a hurry in the EU, and we are members of the EU, so that we are not in a hurry, and let them accept one of these options, although we do not think that the first and second are likely, is the true option of Drnovšek - Račan, otherwise we will not ratify the treaty with the EU. At the same time, it was said that this arbitration agreement is an unfair agreement towards Slovenia and that criminal solutions constitute a source of possible conflicts in the future, that they are not a guarantee of peace and stability in the future, and that the Commission's declaration of peace and justice was also cited yesterday. These two things are contradictory. For the first time, however, I see that the arbitration agreement will not be unfair, it cannot be because the task of the court is to determine a just and fair solution in the light of other cases. Secondly, if we force Croatia or think that we can do this to force it to sign the Drnovšek - Račan agreement, will it not be a criminal solution that will not guarantee peace and stability in the future? This option is certainly not a real alternative and we are therefore returning to what are essentially the right alternatives. And we think that when the agreement is rejected, it enters a completely empty, unknown space and we give up or we would give up a very good solution that is in favour of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! We will talk for 10 hours in Parliament today about clarifying some of the new circumstances. These new circumstances are in fact supposed to be Croatian unilateral statements and their unilateral documents. As far as I am concerned and as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we have heard several clear answers today to what unilateral statements and documents in international law mean and we do not really need further explanations anymore. This is also discussed by many lawyers who are definitely making clear that such unilateral statements are irrelevant, that these statements are, in fact, meaningless to the work of the arbitrators, so that the work of those who decide how to resolve this common problem will not have any impact. Such unilateral statements will not affect this decision. And, of course, what is relevant and what has been said several times, it is obvious that it is also necessary to repeat several times, only what we signed with Croatia in Stockholm. But anyway, maybe today we can talk about other things that are also needed to clarify these circumstances, not least we are somewhere in the middle of a referendum campaign that raises many questions for people. One of these questions people often ask is why it is actually a referendum. Here I think it is necessary to remind several times that it was threatened by the very opposition. Mr Jelinčič, Mr Žerjav, Mr Janša, in particular, was threatened with this. Finally, all the political parties we have in Parliament agreed to sign this referendum. Now some of this distances. And in some ways they're even trying to show that this was an option of a coalition that wants some sort of alibi for that decision. Here it seems to me that one such first step in manipulating the public is to move away from what you have recently asked for clearly and loudly. However, we have decided on this referendum and it may be right here that people have the opportunity to decide how to proceed. How to proceed after 20 years of failed political, failed international legal negotiations that have been conducted so far. Here people will have to decide primarily on the basis of two options: whether our future is being built on ongoing political disputes, incidents, unresolved and controversial problems that are only in the interest of political extremists, or whether it is decided that a dispute that has apparently not been ended and which has passed over and damaged everyone will be decided by a joint arbitration. To be decided by a group of international experts, a third party, some mediators who will try to find, as has been said many times today, an appropriate and fair solution. Let us say for the hundredth time and even a few hundredths clearly and loudly that Slovenia has, or is written in this agreement, that it will be sought or that it is worked out in an agreement, written between the starting points, to find a solution that will allow Slovenia to contact international waters. That's what he's actually so manipulated about. Whoever's behind this, he's going to make a reasonable decision in the arbitration. Just as it happens that neighbors sometimes fight, and when things cannot be settled between themselves, they find a solution to a third party. And this is certainly after 20 years of grueling negotiations, failed negotiations a good way and should be and should cheer up every well-intentioned positive person who does not want to live permanently in conflict, conflict, hatred, netting sparks, and from this many times, as many have found, especially forging such political capital, which is to the detriment of both nations, but is often very useful for the current needs of political objectives. Well, where are we today, when we're somewhere in the middle of this referendum campaign? If someone is watching the matter outside, I would probably think that there is a war in Slovenia, that we are in some war state, because the opposition has been able to confuse people completely and also to put them together. Why am I actually talking about war? Such military jargon is used, there are talk of betrayals, surrenders, emergency situations, occupied territory and so on, sales of Slovenian land and so on. What is this other than a militant expression that measures against the military situation? And here, in fact, Slovenia passed the exam, as was said today, precisely in this, and this guilt can be attributed peacefully to the opposition, which is the one who disputed, and the one who most often makes such statements, that in such a way it is spread out, that it appears to be some conspiracy to talk about some secret backgrounds and so forth. One hate speech of spreading emotions at the lowest level and a negative attitude towards everything, both to Prime Minister Pahor, to the coalition and also to every citizen and citizen expressing a positive attitude towards this agreement. And why is this the real thing where we passed the exam? Because in the neighbouring country of Croatia they are completely peaceful, united, in peace they are gathering documentation for arbitration - which we should be doing at this time, perhaps something about this has happened - and where they have shown one such secular face, because they are prepared to be resolved by someone third, which is actually a decision that I think most of our European fellow citizens welcome as appropriate. And I think it is right, and I hope that we will also give such a message in Slovenia after 6 June. What these opponents of arbitration are offering us and what we have to say in advance, we have heard today. We also heard the answer to these offers. I think we've found that none of these are relevant, not appropriate. How very double-minded it may be to call for us to go back to the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, if it is the same option and Mr Janez Janša has been quite vehemently rejected and distanced from it at some point. And lastly, the elements of this agreement, as the Foreign Minister has previously said sufficiently, are almost entirely contained in the arbitration agreement, which is, for us, a good achievement. But many times other aspects are not considered, and I must say that with great interest, as well as with some bad feeling, I have read with former European Ambassador Mojco Drčar Murko, who spoke so sincerely about how they see us in Brussels. And probably her assessment is not so out of the vine when it comes to the issue of our reputation, our demands, our positioning, our selfishness and many things, as they tell us in Brussels, and where, in particular, if we reject the arbitration agreement, we will show this bad side. However, I think that this is increasingly showing that it is no longer an arbitration agreement, but that it is an easy desire to win power and create the worst possible situation for the country as a whole and also create emergency situations. This is not a fight if I express myself with a military expression that is so relevant in recent days, for Slovenia and for the sea, but this is an unforgivable struggle for power. An unforgivable battle for power. Why Janša, why did Mr. Ruple, why did Mr. Pogačnik and others like him fail to do nothing for 20 years? And how can these same people today read the Levites to all those who have succeeded at some point? Indeed, man cannot get rid of the feeling of some jealous observation of this scene, and in fact all that has been achieved so far has been that famous Blah deal, which has agreed that this border dispute is being resolved before the Hague court, which is definitely a worse solution. This is the achievement of these gentlemen, except, of course, that some also have very full accounts and that their expertise has been very well paid for this. And today it is clear that they are obviously preferable abroad, for they should respond in many ways. And an arbitration agreement means a peaceful one, a meaningful one, a quality solution and leads to our international credibility, preserves our reputation and moves away from continuing to be viewed as healers, troublemakers, selfish and contentious. It leads to good-neighbourly relations, co-existence, as said by economists who almost fully support them, this time you do not quote them, as usual, the arbitration agreement also leads to economic cooperation between the two countries, which is very important. And maybe even for the end to think. The referendum will be just before the World Cup. And a while ago, I was reading the polls when Croats who didn't make it to the World Cup asked who they were going to be cheering for at this championship. The answers were very interesting. 28% of Croats will cheer for Serbs at this football championship. For Serbs who were in a state of war 15 years ago. And you won't believe it. Slovenia is only fourth. And only a third of those who cheer for Serbia will cheer for Slovenia. That's what I was worried about. In view of the relationship we have had at the time of self - conquest, which we often have in mind these days, this is a sad fact. It's a sad piece of data that tells us where we've brought our relationship. I have this kind of relationship with my neighbors, both at home in my own backyard and in my own country, I don't want to. I want good relations, and I am sure that this arbitration agreement is a good way to lead to such better relations. And if I say a little funny, maybe the percentage after June 6th will increase if we show our maturity and confirm the arbitration agreement, although probably Slovenia does not need these cheering votes, because there will be enough energy in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Dr. Patrick Wlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk a little bit about the political and a little bit about the legal aspects of this arbitration agreement. Legal first. Mr Janša began his debate by saying that the National Assembly had unlawfully ratified the agreement. It is easy to pronounce such words, but there must be some basis for it. There is the legal opinion of Dr. Cerar, who is referred to in other cases, on this same matter, which states that such a majority is not necessary for such a decision. And if someone thinks there's something illegal, then they should do something legal against it, and you probably didn't, so I'm taking it as a political position trying to discredit a decision. Citizens only need to be told what effect unilateral declarations that are not part of an agreement should be resolved on the basis of an international treaty. They don't have any effect. They just don't have any effect. It's so simple. And you don't have to make fog about it. Thus, if a unilateral declaration is not part of an arbitration agreement, it does not have a legal effect. And the thing is, in this case, it's over. Then it was said that the Prime Minister was lying that access would be territorial. I'll repeat what the Foreign Minister said before. The territory of the Republic of Slovenia consists of the land and territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia. If the contact of Slovenia with the high seas must be determined, then part of the territory is land, part of the territorial sea, so the contact must be determined with the territorial sea. These are just one of the basic things, and I can also quote a Slovenian regulation that speaks about this, is called the State Border Control Act. And this state border control law says the following. If you don't mind, I'd like to tell you what he's saying. It says: "The border line borders the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from the areas of neighbouring countries." It's a borderline. Then he goes on to say, "the state border under this law is the land and sea border" and then "airfield" and so on. So if you don't believe that the territorial sea is part of the national territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which saddens me very much, I think that the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia is part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, then at least we have to believe our regulations governing it. When we are talking about the territorial access of Slovenia to the open sea, and if the sea is the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, then contact can be nothing more than a contact between the territorial sea and the Republic of Slovenia. It's just one of the simplest equations, if A plus B is, because I probably don't have to explain it. I don't know what's not clear here. I also said the last time the citizens go to the referendum, I advised them, but I will, where possible, say, just please read point 3.b with common sense, and it will be clean enough., So you don't have to listen to me, not you, not anyone else, just read it yourself, and assess what it means, and it will be very easy for you to answer. Then it's the next thing. A few words about "ex aeque et bono." On one occasion, it was also said in this House that I defended the Hague court and "ex aeque et bono". And it's true, I wrote one legal opinion, along with another gentleman, Mr Mag. To the hunchbacks about whom the former government asked us, which forum would be most suitable to resolve this dispute. At that time, we assessed that it would be better to resolve politically, that was our proposal, but if we have to go to judgment, we have proposed to the Hague court, on the urgent use of ex aeque et bono. And then we suggested that as an extreme option, but this should be understood as an option if the Hague court is not to use arbitration. But then I wasn't hoping as a lawyer, not as a politician, because I wasn't, not even dreaming that an arbitration agreement could be as agreeable as it is today. Of the more than 40 arbitration agreements concluded so far in world history, not one of them has had contact with the open sea mentioned inside. I'm not. This one's got it. And I don't know why it bothers you so much. Why does this bother you that this is mentioned? For the last time, the President of the SDS Party, the President of the Council of Experts on Foreign Affairs, is sorry if I have not named correctly, but Mr Rupel said on television, should write in an arbitration agreement a distinction between the Republic of Slovenia or the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. That's all. People of God, if that's all it says, but we would really have contact, yes. We absolutely wouldn't have it. I'll tell you why. Because Mr Rupel, those who have helped him in this regard, those who advise you in this regard forget one very important fact that the country can declare a territorial sea no more than 12 nautical miles from the mainland. If it were written in an arbitration agreement to demarcate the territorial seas of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, we cannot possibly reach the open sea. It's so simple. Since it is more than 12 nautical miles from the mainland of the Republic of Slovenia to the open sea. That is why this provision on contact is so important. Because we're simply not going to make it to the open sea. All you have to do is keep that in mind. Why, once again, the Hague court and the ex aeque et bono after Mr Janša stepped in front of the cameras at Bled and said that they had in principle agreed on the Hague court. At least if I said so, we agreed, in principle, on ex aeque et bono, or at least discussions are under way. Of course, he didn't even mention it with a word. The Hague court without ex aeque et bono is not good enough. And why ex aeque et bono, although never in history was used in a haze court in an interstate court? It is important because it is necessary to find a solution that is beyond the rule of law. I repeat, because the territorial sea is no more than 12 nautical miles. If you'll excuse me when you're talking about your alternatives. You say that it is necessary to achieve an ex aeque et bono, that a different solution should therefore be reached for the Bay of Piran and more clearly for the open sea, although more clearly than it is written, I do not think it is necessary to reach an alternative agreement on Drnovšek - Račan. Yeah. But since Slovenia does not negotiate with itself, Slovenia has negotiators on the other side. If this negotiator, on the other hand, who is at this point in time, is in a position to reject an arbitration agreement, he will have in his hands all the assets to never negotiate with the Republic of Slovenia again, he will not feel this need. The international community will not stand for Slovenia, nor will we have any good or effective leverage to force them into what. But the most disturbing speculation is that a different agreement would bring a better solution. Yes, why, because we have all the evidence we have available within this agreement, the possibility to use. All the evidence before 1991, after 1991, which is available, we will be able to use all the evidence. After all, when you brought, when you ruled, this dispute from the diplomatic field to the legal area, you decided that there would be a legal or arbitral settlement to which we have now led. This is an area of argument; this is no longer the area of negotiations on what will be the solution. This is the area of argument. The arguments that Slovenia currently has and which it has before will be able to use. And those who don't will not be able to use them. Living in one of the polyllusions that the thing is best than it is blurring and is misleading Slovenian citizens and citizens. The current situation is bad for Slovenia. I don't know if you're talking to piranha fishermen. I'm out because I'm from there. And they're not hunting halfway across the Piran Bay. Of course, this is not of interest to you because you are interested in the sea only when you go on vacation or when you use it politically. Otherwise, of course, the sea does not represent any particular important category for you. Piranese fishermen hunt to the middle of the Bay of Piranhas. When you ruled, the police boat didn't cross half of the Bay of Piran. Now it's coming. The situation as it is now does not correspond to Slovenia. What is one of the greatest advantages of contacting the open sea of the arbitration agreement is that the predecessors are the right course of action after 21. 6. 1991 does not apply. So all unilateral behaviour will not have an effect. Now, legally, a few words about the arbitration agreement itself. The arbitral tribunal says: "The arbitration agreement determines the course of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea." You make a lot of reference to the Constitutional Court, which says what the Republic of Slovenia has. In a saying, don't say anything about it. Legally speaking, it's a relevant saying. The statement states that the arbitration agreement is in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The progress of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia will be determined on the basis of international law, but the saddest part is that here I have a feeling when I talk to the opponents of the arbitration agreement, as if I am struggling with Croatian arguments. Actually, I hear Croatian arguments all the time. I hear it's gonna be the middle of the Piran Bay. Yeah, why wouldn't a map like that be like that? Why not be like that if we're going to a war card, but maybe that's the best solution? Maybe this solution will be brought about by arbitration. Maybe so. Maybe those drawings that you're drawing will be funny to see what kind of solution arbitration will bring. Maybe that'll be a solution. I don't know if it's the right way to show each other with the cards. I don't think that's the right way. I think it's the right way to go about things the way the law determines. Progress of the border of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea. If you'll excuse me, there's no limit on the sea. And the limit shall be determined by demarcating, the right convention, on the basis of the same distance from both shores, unless historical or specific circumstances dictate otherwise. I mean, unless you think otherwise that the historical and special circumstances here dictate something else. Three cities are gravitated to the Bay of Piran, the catch of shoes in history, then the connection of salts with the entire system of the Bay of Piran, with warehouses, with salts, with sailing, with the displacement of the population to that part, all of which shows that the Bay of Piran was used on this side and that this part of the coast, that is, the northern part of the Bay of Piran, lived with the Gulf of Piran. These are the circumstances that will lead to more than half. I'm so sorry when you keep saying there's gonna be a line halfway through. As far as contact with the open sea is concerned. Why are they mentioned here - to list again how this will be determined. It says that "the principle of good-neighbourly relations in order to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances, will apply to point 3-B". Look at why this is important. Point B, if you ask an international lawyer, is actually paraphrasing ex aequo et bono. Since ex aequo et bono means external justice, it means some justice to give a solution that is not necessarily exactly the same as legal rules. And that's exactly what he says. So, not in the words ex aequo et bono, but - that I will not quote any famous poet that "the flower would smell the same, even if it were called otherwise". So here the name doesn't actually play a role. And why is that so important? Because the law says you can't get in touch. And that's why it's actually paraphrasing ex aequo et bono. Now, the third point you've reached, which says "it is necessary to establish regimes for the use of the relevant marine areas." Yes, thank God! Sea areas are an epicontinental zone, a purely economic zone, either a fishing zone or an ecological zone, or other possible zones. And, of course, traditional rights must also be in this area. Arbitration can also determine a traditional right in this area, for example, fishing; for example, if our fishermen have traditionally fished there. So this is also an added value in this agreement. The points are set to be resolved by bringing Slovenia, I can say that, at least if not a better solution such as the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement. But the most disturbing thing about this agreement is Drnovšek-Racan. That when it was concluded, you were very, very critical of it. And what's worse, you're the one who walked away from him. You have resigned from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, you have resigned from diplomatic discharge, you have pushed the country into a resolution before an international court or arbitration, and now, of course, everyone is smart about what should be written in the agreement. But an agreement is a mechanism. The agreement is a dispute resolution mechanism and the agreement does not resolve the dispute in substance, but rather as a mechanism to enable our country to use all that is relevant to its international interests, and, more importantly, to use all the evidence, without prejudice, that we had at our disposal on 25.6.1991, before that. Let me say again about those who speak of Savudrija and those who speak of the border of Mirna. Please don't fool the citizens! The Republic of Slovenia has several pillars of its statehood. Those who forget about them will have to look at them again. One pillar is a plebiscite, the other pillar is a constitution, the third pillar is a fundamental charter. The Basic Charter states one very important thing that the borders of the Republic of Slovenia are internationally recognised with Italy or under international treaties with Italy, Austria and Hungary and the administrative borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. And at the time of 25. 6. In 1991 Savudrija was not administratively in the Republic of Slovenia. Don't fool the citizens! Because it's a scam, and it's a fog sale. And you can't live in a fog. Only under the clear sky can you live.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! Slovenia is part of a Europe where there is a diligent and honest nation, which also has a rich history. To the people, to this part of Europe, where we were always proud and still called Slovenia, some would like to assume a responsibility that would separate the Slovenian people just so that someone from a high policy will be liked in Europe. More and more it is noted, and we are always aware in the opposition that those who run the country are always more inclined to solve the problems of Europe and the neighbours, but forget that they are responsible for the leadership and situation in the country where they received a mandate from the people for this responsible mission. No one has the right to consent on behalf of the nation to the alienation of land and sea, but there are also those who easily agree to decisions that are harmful and do not guarantee what has been obtained by blood through the history of the Slovenian people. In 2005, former President Kučan made a statement for the Croatian Globe, where he appointed arbitration as a break and capitulation for Slovenian politics. Today this same gentleman speaks differently and in favour of arbitration. I don't know what convinced him. However, it would be right to tell the facts to anyone else, because the current policy of me and many Slovenians has not convinced them that they are right and that the arbitration agreement is what Slovenia brings benefits in the maritime, fisheries, economy, market and co-existence of people with neighbouring Croatia and, lastly, a fair border. After each speech by the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, when explaining the arguments to journalists or in the National Assembly on an agreement with the Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, he is immediately denied by Croatian foreign policy and government, which speaks in the opposite direction. Of course, then, I wonder why the deception of my own nation, which would mean a great deal to the truth, even though it would hurt for whom. Why do our neighbors explain a different story to us, but it is not the content of the conversation that our government is explaining? Why are we negotiating what was always ours? Is the price for good-neighbourly relations a territory that is larger than a thousand hectares occupied by Croatia? The arbitration of Slovenia does not bring the return of the territory, because no one has convinced us to do so, but only the uncertainty and risk that is in the hands of the arbitrators. The Croats are always negotiating with us with a fig in their pocket. That is true, they also proved on June 22, 1991, when our government negotiated in Zagreb on the independence and defence of the republics. Even then, Croatia proved to be an unreliable partner in the agreements, as no results were sought on the agreement. We're talking a lot about 25. 6. 1991 that all subsequent interventions are irrelevant and that the situation on Day 25 applies. 6. 1991. That's not true either. Croatia set up a control point in Plovani in 1994 and pledged that it was only during the tourist season and later the facility would be moved away. However, this has not yet happened, and it will obviously remain so. Otherwise, we would not have exercised force and coercion against our citizens, including the parliamentarians, who have advocated a fair border without success, in the eyes of the police and the Slovenian public. The Slovenian National Party proposed a peace conference to resolve the border disputes of all the republics of the former Yugoslavia. But no, this is unacceptable to our policy. But it's the only way to go, and it's gonna turn out when this conference comes. The referendum, however, is a policy relationship that will take responsibility for citizens. Members have a mandate and could do so in Parliament with a two-thirds majority. I don't know where we're in a hurry. We are already in Europe, and it appears that this is of no use to us, because in addition to all denials, prior to joining Europe we will now pay the price of Croatia to enter Europe by giving up our own land and sea for Croatia's benefit. But it's never too late. We can still make a different decision. The alternative is certainly a bilateral agreement with Croatia before it enters the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Respectable associates, coworkers, other colleagues and colleagues! The task of the arbitral tribunal under the arbitration agreement is very clear and simple. It must set a limit, establish contact between Slovenia and international waters and establish a regime. At these three points, we've heard mostly five criticisms. The first is that the tasks, as we say, are divided into three points. Secondly, that contact does not mean territorial contact, thirdly - that there was no Croatian promise that Slovenia would be in contact, fourthly - that Luka Koper would have problems and fifthly - that Slovenia and Croatia jointly notified the international community of the Croatian declaration that it did not recognise the contact of Slovenia. What are the shortcomings of these five critics? The first is that the tasks are divided into three points. It is very clear and easy to answer: to make the agreement clear. However, the decision of the arbitral tribunal is only one, not three, so the points where the border is to be established shall be taken into account together. Point two, that contact is not a territorial contact. Well, we've looked at, what is the contact under the SSKJ - the contact is either the full approach of two or more objects or the place where something contacts. Let's look at it in English. The contact in English is Junction. Let's see what Junction means. And we went to Google and we wrote "define junction" and we find that the junction means, in any case, that two objects or territories contact each other. Anyone can write the definitions to describe the Junction. And he's gonna get that answer. And we're moving on, given that the answer is that we should have "territorial junciton," and we've looked at what territorial junciton means. And look at the fraction, the definition of "territorial junciton" is missing, because there is no concept of territorial junciton. And we went ahead and looked, given that Mr. Chernač also mentioned "territorial contact" several times, and we looked at Google as to what territorial contact meant. And look at the fraction, even territorial contact throughout the web doesn't exist because there is no concept of territorial centact. You know, saying that contact is not a territorial contact is like saying we should say plant tree or sweet candy. Contact already means territorial contact, like candy means it's sweet, and as a tree it means it's a plant. There's no animal tree, just like there's no non-territorial contact. Contact is a territorial contact and because there is no territorial contact, of course we can only have contact, which means, as critics say, territorial contact. Here we go, point three. Criticism that there were no Croatian promises for Slovenia to be contacted. Yes, because Croatia cannot promise this, because this promise is irrelevant, it can only be decided by an arbitral tribunal, not Slovenia or Croatia. Point four, Luke Koper's problem. This is forgotten that the arbitration agreement has nothing to do with sailing to the port of Koper, as it regulates the already signed and valid anconic agreement, which stipulates that it is heading north in the Adriatic by Croatian waters and south by Italian, as we see on this map. This is to avoid possible accidents and also rationality, because the current along the Adriatic is such that the sea is heading north on Croatian waters and south on Italian waters. Here we go, and we come to the fourth point, a criticism that the international public's joint information on the Croatian declaration was. Sweden has already clearly denied this as a witness to the agreement, it has literally said that the parties have not notified us together, and that is what the United States Department of Affairs later did. Now the question is to whom do we trust more: Croatian law or own Slovenian government, Sweden and the United States of America? So if we go through again, we can see that the lack of criticism is great. The first criticism that tasks are divided into three points is flawed. Another criticism that contact is not a territorial contact, we have proven that the concept of territorial contact is not and that there is only a concept of contact, as there is only the concept of "justice" and the concept of "territorial contact" or "territorial juction" is not. Google it and you won't find it. Without Croatia's promise of having a contact with Slovenia, we have already found out why. Because that promise is irrelevant. In the case of Luke Koper, we know it's ancononic. the agreement and this does not have any effect on the arbitration agreement. However, with regard to joint information, it was already a denial that this was not the case. Why is the arbitral tribunal better than the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which was defended by John Janš? First time. Because he also decides by the criterion of the principle of righteousness, Haag does not. Another time. Because it takes into account the cut-off date of 25 June 1991 and the historical circumstances, the Hague does not. Third time. Because it has to establish contact with Slovenia with the open sea, the Hague does not. Fourth time. Since one member of the court also appoints Slovenia, this does not apply to The Hague. Fifth. If the arbitral tribunal does not comply with the provisions of the arbitration agreement, so it does not determine the contact of Slovenia with international waters, Slovenia does not have to respect the decision of the court. What are the possible decisions of the arbitral tribunal? Here we need to be very careful, because maps can only be predictive, but the only one responsible for disposing the map is, of course, an arbitral tribunal. But this is one of the possible solutions. Why? Therefore, as we see, contact between Slovenian and international waters is determined. Another option is to establish a corridor where we have a smaller triangle of Croatian waters, but the arbitral tribunal is not obliged to draw that triangle, and in this case we also have contact between Slovenian waters and international waters. [[..]] Let's move on. What about the possibility of no contact being determined? This option is not provided for in the arbitration agreement. If it were to be determined, this is not in accordance with the arbitration agreement and therefore Slovenia does not have to take such a solution into account and is not bound by it at all. It's the same if you pull the middle line. Among other things, this is what The Hague would likely have decided if The Hague had been decided. If we make summaries and take into account that if the judgment fails to comply with the Arbitral Agreement, it is not binding under the Vienna Convention, these two options, where there is no contact, simply do not count, and we have only these three options, which, interestingly, are very similar to the Drnovšek - Račan Agreement, because they take into account the contact that these three options are better, because in the Drnovšek - Račan agreement we had to cancel the marriage during the negotiations. However, these solutions do not take into account any of the village’s solutions. Let's get this over with. The arbitration agreement is good because it is an opportunity to resolve this open issue. Let's get rid of the status quo. Here I would like to draw your attention to the status quo, where even Slovenian media in their maps write and draw, as if Slovenia had no contact with territorial waters. ‘You can find this on the top link, this map is still present. The status quo does not allow Slovenia to contact and therefore we need an arbitration agreement to get this contact. In order to ensure access to international waters, this arbitration agreement is the best solution we have ever had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. From a constitutional point of view, Parliament has also a supervisory function in addition to the legislative authority, and therefore Members can ask questions, thereby controlling the Government, of course, if we also get the appropriate answers from the Government. We have submitted or addressed a request to the Government or requested an explanation of when and where the President of the Croatian Government, Jadranka Kosor, has provided or promised territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea. What response did we receive from the government? The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Pahor, tried to present the background and so on in the face of the Polish television broadcast. That's a figure of speech. As we have seen on the screens, in a way, the previous images have been illustrated. But we didn't get an answer to the question where and when. To the question we asked. And this is a marked ignorance towards the MPs of the National Assembly. And we expect very little: an hour, a place, a date for this meeting. Was it Trakoscan or was it Ljubljana or was it somewhere else? As a journalist, for a quarter of a century, I asked similar questions: where, who, what, when, and why. In that case, only one, Borut Pahor, Jadranka Kosor. We know what - the promise of territorial contact, but we don't know where and when, but far away, how. Was it an oral, written promise, a promise with some goodwill, or a store? The arbitration agreement is too important to be addressed with some graphic words, with some decorative adjectives, with different word locks, because in this way we deceive our people. This is the way the government communicates brings into the people some political nihilism, because people say, "They're only joking, because they're not serious." Or they say we don't know what we're doing. On the other hand, the government is confusing and misleading the public by doing so. We just don't know what else is behind us, what else is ahead, but we know what's ahead. And I'm afraid there's a repeat of history ahead of us, and that's the history when we lost Koroška, Trieste and Gorica. In this reply or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not actually respond to this requested explanation, the Government also says that Slovenia cannot prevent unilateral acts of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you: What kind of neighbour is this Republic of Croatia to its neighbour, to us, to Slovenia, but if it introduces a policy of unilateral action, if it introduces a policy of ready facts?Oh, my God! Can we trust Croatia? I don't trust her. But to the politicians, the government should speak with so much more subtlely and carefully with its neighbours, because clearly Croatian politicians look Slovenian in the eyes and lie to them. The government will sign an agreement with Croatia and add a unilateral statement to its arbitration law, as we have seen, in agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. And in this way it actually completely cancels the demands or our expectations. Croatia simply cannot be trusted, but it is even more worrying that, with everything we hear in the last days, we cannot even trust our government. International law, especially in such treaties, requires extreme seriousness, not some kind of imagery and a variety of locksmiths, because here the commas count here even the spaces between words. And today we are always learning new facts, the government is apparently calling on embassies and embassies are sending messages that this government obviously wants. Today the issue of the media has already been mentioned here. I think we are witnessing some brutal media war against the opponents of the arbitration agreement. And this ratio of 1:11 is shocking, and I think it will go to Slovenian political and media history. Just as throughout history all the circumstances of the Koroan plebiscite were broken down into hundreds of books, hundreds of articles, professional articles. But nothing helps us. We lost Koroška 90 years ago once and for all. Even 90 years ago, we could have broken things down in a similar way. It was also a brutal unilateral media propaganda when Austria was drawn as a beautiful bride and SHS as an ugly and old lady. Today's media is drawing Mrs Kosor as a beautiful bride and Borut Pahor as a beautiful wife. Come in. The number of Serbs was then decisive in the outcome of the plebiscite. In the plebiscite zone was inhabited by new inhabitants, Germans. Veleselj set up such a plebiscite zone to extricate the Mežiški valley and the Jezersko valley, because it was clear that the conscious Slovenians in the Mežiški valley and in Jezersko could bend the scale in favour of Slovenia. And what is also interesting is that social democracy in Austria, whose members were many Slovenians, was very much agitated for the Republic of Austria. Once again, unfortunately, we don't know what's behind these arrangements. I think it's some cow deals, but we know what's in the front. A repeat of history awaits us when we lost Trst, Gorica and the most beautiful part of Slovenia, this is Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! There are no new circumstances on the basis of which an arbitration agreement should be discussed again in this High Council. We can only talk about the new insinuations of the opposition. The fact is that, as the Slovenian Press Agency today said to the Swedish Ambassador to Slovenia, it is not true that Croatia, together with Slovenia, the Swedish Presidency of the European Union and the United States of America, would take note of its unilateral statement. "The parties did not notify us together," the Ambassador said, stressing that Sweden was only a witness when the arbitration agreement was signed in Stockholm on 4 November 2009. The Ambassador also confirmed that Croatia's unilateral declaration was not part of the signed agreement. The United States Embassy's administrator also confirmed for the Slovenian Press Agency that the Croatian declaration was unilateral in all respects. So Mr. Pahor was telling the truth. I don't believe in the claims of Janez Janša, but even less I can believe the victory of Jelinčič. The fact is that the arbitration agreement for Slovenia is good because the arbitration decision provides greater protection of the border than the Interstate Court in The Hague, as proposed by the previous government. The Arbitration Agreement provides a way for a fair and fair settlement of the border dispute and also ensures peace and co-existence at the border. The agreement also allows for the establishment on the day of Slovenia's independence on 25.6.1991. The continuation of the status quo with each year weakens the negotiating possibilities of Slovenia, which will ultimately distance us from the direct exit to the open sea. In addition to establishing the border on land and sea, the main task of the arbitral tribunal is to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which means contact of the Slovenian territory with the open sea, which is more than the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. In addition to international law, the agreement will take into account the historical circumstances that favour Slovenia, taking into account the principle of fairness and all other relevant circumstances for a fair and just establishment of the border. Slovenia will protect its national interests by adopting an arbitration agreement. Slovenia will continue to develop as a maritime state and the port of Koper as the most important port in the North Adriatic. The resolution of the almost 20-year dispute between the countries will also open up new opportunities for the Slovenian economy, in particular strengthening Slovenia's reputation and influence throughout the region and the European Union. Public opinion polls show that the majority of voters and voters will vote in favour of the implementation of the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement. The Arbitration Agreement is supported by the countries of the European Union, the United States of America and Vatican diplomacy. Even the pope supports him. Cardinal Rode refused to define himself until the agreement at the request of Officer Dnevnik yesterday. However, in his conversation about the Evening Paper, he said a long time ago that an arbitration agreement was needed. The Commission's statement Justice and Peace, which usually brings the views of the Slovenian Catholic Church, also contains some elements that the Government also advocates, namely that a fair border can ensure co-existence and peace, so we have no feeling that the Commission would object to the agreement. And there's something else I'd like to say here. Mr Janez Janša has challenged the fourth or third paragraph of Article 11 of the Agreement, which states that all the procedural deadlines set out in this Agreement will begin to run from the date of signature of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union. This, of course, does not yet mean Croatia's final entry into the European Union. It will be necessary to translate the Treaty into the languages of the European Union and to implement all ratification procedures in the 27 countries of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union. Of course, then it will take at least another year and a half or even two years. This will actually start substantially before Croatia enters the European Union. So I am going to make peace with my neighbours, I am going to decide on a reasonable solution to the border issue and on Sunday, 6 June, I will vote in favour of the arbitration agreement. I invite you to join me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After June 6th, if the voters of Slovenia say that we will not lose the sea, we will not lose the land and we will not be on the same ground as we were when we lost Koroška. The fact that we lost Koroška, we all know, has been decided by the Koros themselves, under certain pressures, under certain circumstances, but it has been so. This agreement will bring Slovenia everything that has been slowly, safely and not precisely with the decisive steps of the governments so far has been lost in the last 18 years, 19 years. This allows for this agreement. And this agreement does not decide on the limit. That's why I don't agree with those, even in their kind that show maps, that seems irresponsible to me. The map will be drawn by an arbitral tribunal. While we are something else by profession, we are not international judges, lawyers and judges who will decide it., Every fear that Slovenia loses anything is completely superfluous. And that is what all those who know about it have justified today and all these months. I'd like to say that this extraordinary session makes no sense. I was against her, but then we'd be condemned members of the coalition again to prevent something and everything, and we said, okay, we'll talk about the old facts. Why are there old facts? Look, that statement you're talking so much about and which is the basis of your argument for today's session is an old, familiar fact. On the Foreign Policy Committee, we discussed the information that Croatia will make a statement on 3 November last year. Then another thing happened. Only a few days later came the text that I have before me, the then draft law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement, which we adopted in April this year, in which Slovenia is as its total disagreement, so the government made an effort to put into the law the article in which it distances itself. Dear colleagues Janš, Grims and everyone else, including Vice President Ziherl, you were all at these meetings at the time. I don't know what these new facts are. Look what we're talking about. The Republic of Slovenia declares that it did not agree with the declaration of the Republic of Croatia of 9 November 2009, nor with its content. In accordance with international law, the Republic of Slovenia has stated that the unilateral declaration made in respect of the arbitration agreement has no effect on its content and that the Republic of Croatia’s statement of 9 November has no effect on the arbitration procedure and so on. What new facts, please! Then today I heard that Slovenia has de facto and de jure all the territory that it had on 25 June 1991. Yeah, well, please, then why did you want to go to the Interstate Court in The Hague and talk? Yeah, well, if everything's so perfect, then everything's fine. Look, these are lies and deceptions that are incomprehensible to me. I would like to tell you that this inspires negative feelings among people in Slovenia and also in relations with Croatia. I've often wondered why. And then my light went off. It's very simple. Look, SDS is just mad because it failed to reach your client. You tried, I admit, but you failed, but that's why you don't have to break all the other things. The second thing is with the Slovenian People's Party and the SNS, who have already lived the entire period since independence until now only in a dispute with Croatia. Can you imagine what will happen when this conflict is resolved? There'll be no more material. What are we gonna do? And, my dears, you are unworthy. I don't understand you. But that's how I tell you that even the international community doesn't understand you. In many talks with ambassadors, accredited countries in Slovenia, I am talking and everyone is holding their head and saying: "This is such a favorable agreement for you, I do not understand your opposition." That's what the ambassador after the ambassador tells me. Your European party doesn't understand you either. Mr. Joseph Daul is an absolute consent to this agreement. You are not understood by international lawyers at home and abroad who know that this agreement is good for Slovenia. We do not understand you, Members of the coalition, that you do not support this agreement. And you know what this agreement is? The word agreement consists of two words: conflict and reason. We are not for conflict, we are for reason, and I hope that this reason will prevail with you too, because I am sure that in the electorate you so underestimate, it will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today I will try very, very hard to say about the indignation and protest against the lies and falsehoods and manipulations used by the opposition when it represents the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it is very nice that we have already heard today the denials of our or your opposition claims, statements that have proved to be unrealistic. Demanti has already come from the governments of the United States of America, the Swedish government, so there are no hidden agreements, as you claim, but there are only bare facts that are written within the agreement. If you start with the basic thing that pleases me, it means the state on the day of your independence. It is very appropriate that today we have also received on the table a fundamental constitutional charter signed by the first government, namely the Government of Demos, from which it is clear that the establishment of the situation on the day of independence is 25. 6. for Slovenia what enables us, of course, all or rejects all unilateral acts that Croatia or Slovenia can prepare. I am particularly pleased that the Demos government has signed this and, on the other hand, I am disappointed that some of Demos' actors at the time today say that this fundamental charter was mentally signed. I'm surprised, and sometimes I can't understand some things that people can become two-faced or they don't realize what they're saying. So, the first point, it is clear how it will be done on land, the second point at sea, a few minutes ago, Minister Vlačič spoke about the fact that this is based on historical facts, so that we have land and sea proportionally on hand. It is also clear from this agreement, as it states, that there is an undisputed exit to the open sea, which is clearly imposed on the arbitral tribunal to determine it, i.e. the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. And that's what the agreement says. The third thing that is very important to me is that the arbitration agreement also gives the Slovenian economy new opportunities and new opportunities, which is not negligible. And today I'm going to show you what the economists think. Economists believe that cooperation should not be hindered. This is a message from economists in Slovenia. From that tiniest craftsman to that biggest company. This is a message from the economists. It doesn't matter either. Everyone wants the trade to be bigger, at least as it was a few years ago. Of course, the following must be said. I'm coming from Pomurje. There are certain things, as we like to say, that are unresolved. And look what's written down. I quote: "The Slovenia on the day of independence supervised the left bank of the river Mura. Notwithstanding the cadastral border, an arbitration agreement setting out a cut-off date of 25. 6. 1991 is therefore the most favourable solution for Slovenia because it eliminates Croatian unilateral acts as well as those for Pomurje." Of course, another important point for me is peace and co-existence along the border. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have had many conversations with my colleagues from Pomurje, with the mayors and others who claim in one voice that at last all locals living at the border want positive solutions on the one hand and on the other. I have also received many messages that they will vote in favour of this agreement. But I can't help but wonder why so bitter a fight and why so many manipulations, where are the causes, what are the realities. I estimate the facts are clear. That it was true that, prior to the elections, border incidents took place on a permanent basis. Who staged them? Who were they responding to? I myself, not from the media, not from any other source, saw in my own eyes that various representatives or visible members of both the Slovenian People's Party and all others participated in these so-called border incidents. I am also convinced that, as my colleague said before the elections, some other arguments need to be drawn before the elections, and from now on, I am sure that the parties who have dealt with these things before the elections will have to take the elections a little more seriously and, of course, convince voters with the programmes, not to "meglaria" with such things as they have so far. But I agree with them that it is true and that everyone can say what they want today. After all, this is democracy. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Very serious discussions were under way and a lot of ink was spilled in the media about staged border incidents at sea as well. Talks have also been held between the former Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janš, and the then Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Sanader. Strange facts must have been that Mr Sanader had to leave the post of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia under strange circumstances. Mr Janša is also no longer President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but Mr Janša has lost his election in the Republic of Slovenia. So as you're all wondering, I'd ask. Is there anything Mr. Janša might have said about this? But we can certainly draw some parallels, which mean that everyone gets their own payment. I would almost hope to say that it is possible here to look for the reasons for leaving our colleagues of the National Assembly when they voted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly on an arbitration agreement. However, it is important to say that I will vote in favour of the agreement and that I also call on all those understandings in Slovenia, which are large enough to vote in favour of the agreement and that we can go hand in hand with the neighbor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives. I estimate that this session is still necessary, as it reminds me of the river, when it starts to shake the tree, it starts to fall fruit, first of all rot and damage.And already these 10 hours of violent debate, although limited, time-consuming, without some of the committee's discussers, shows that there is a lot of matter. First, I see a dilemma in this triangle. The Croatian law, article 3, then the statements of both US and Swedish ambassadors, and the silence or no defamation by the Slovenian Government. If someone's lying in this triangle, then this arbitration agreement is kind of dead. These three statements are diametrically opposite. Article 3, this is the law, this is something that has weight, which is legally valid internationally. The statements made by Sweden and the United States may rotate in 14 days as they are not signed anywhere, etc. The arbitration agreement on all these facts is barely valid and could be said to be dead. More importantly, however, Slovenia risks too much or goes too far into risky waters, where the results are very questionable. This may well have been said by the representatives themselves, whether they were willing or not. I'm also a little concerned about the government's responsibilities. At first, they wanted the opinion of the Constitutional Court, and let them say something, and now we go to the referendum, whatever comes out of it, let the nation then answer instead of the government. One bad possibility is that Slovenia will remain so small a sea that it will not be able to perform regattas in the Optimist class because it will have to perform part of the regatta in Croatian waters. How it suffers the reputation of Slovenia, for example, in the Croatian Morning List is a pretzel of "brave dull", and the image is, of course, from this comes Borut Pahor, so "a brave fool" into Slovenian translated. This is the reputation of Slovenia when we are talking about it today. It's about friendly relationships with our neighbor. These relationships are as friendly as their interests support them. They are very friendly during the tourist season, they are normally friendly in business relations, as both imports and exports increased in both directions until the crisis, and when the tourist season ended, at least in the long past, not so long ago, there was an incident there at sea. And then there was an agreement, and as far as I know, these incidents are gone. There are alternatives, they've already been listed today. This could be a bilateral agreement, it could be a peace-inheriting conference, and it would certainly be a better agreement by Drnovšek - Račan, in Article 4, which sets out the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea. These are all alternatives. Before Croatia, closing chapters and criminal borders or unresolved border issues with Croatia are certainly not a good path for further border relations. And there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. The outcome of the arbitration agreement will have consequences for all time. Any other matter, such as a catastrophic decline in competitiveness for 20 cities, can be corrected by another government, any law that has a negative impact on life in the country may be changed. However, the outcome or verdict of the arbitration agreement will be forever. The word "junction" was used so many times today. There's a chip here, and there's a few thousand PN of "junctions" on this chip in the process. And "junction" can also be so big, there are a few thousand "junctions", so many words "junction". And in the end, I would certainly urge voters and voters to think carefully, because it is a fateful decision and not to repeat the mistakes of another generation at the beginning of the previous century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It is nice and fun to sit in Parliament and listen to such debates. I am sure that many people in Slovenia will be better off this afternoon. And the facts are as follows. It is always good and positive in life to reach an agreement. It is always good to agree with someone that a conflict that has lasted for decades finally resolves that people live in peace, in a good neighbourhood, that [[...]] I think, Mr Petan, that you have been in this house for so long that you can understand what is decent and what is not decent. I never interrupt you, and I'm asking you to let me do the same. Thank you very much. It is always good, positive, if we agree and resolve the problem. The truth is that we have tried for 20 years, different governments, and that, as a policy, arguments and cards are turned and turned. It would be good to read the opinions of those who today praise the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, what they said about it at the time, and to reflect on their statements. There's a lot to tell us today. I'd ask them why the line didn't stay where it was when the war started. Why did they withdraw twice and do nothing other than big words? These are the key questions. If the border remained there as it had been before 1991, things would have been different from Saudi Cape towards the sea than they are today. I am glad that those who have been signatories to the first constitution have heard a confession from their mouths that we have made one great mistake with the first constitution. A border that was not the historical boundary at this point that we have signed, acknowledged and cemented. I'm sorry. I am convinced that this agreement gives Slovenia access to the open sea. Above all, I wish that participation in the referendum was good. That this subject, which has been imposed on us by part of the opposition policy, has not been decided in Parliament, but the referendum question has been asked that people decide, however anyone feels and experiences about us. I warn and ask for one thing: unity is essential and respect for the result, however it may be. It will be bad for this country if we have a problem that we have not solved in the 20s, whether we have the opportunity and the opportunity to resolve it in agreement if we continue to exploit this already exploited political theme in the day-to-day political needs. I will participate in the referendum myself, I will vote in favour of the agreement, because agreements are always good, desirable and necessary in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must say that after almost five hours of discussion I am a little confused at times because I do not know whether I am sitting in the Slovenian National Assembly or sitting in the Croatian Parliament. But of course that's my grip. Even though we can, and it is also so that we have different views and assessments on this arbitration agreement, of course it is not entirely right that those who oppose you simply exaggerate the use of very difficult judgements and judgements to both the President of the Government, the Government, the Foreign Minister and those who advocate this agreement. That is why I will focus on one of the words or one of which was used at the beginning of today by the proposer of this extraordinary meeting, who spoke on behalf of the proposer, is Mr Janez Janša. I think it is right that we in the National Assembly, in this temple, have devoted much time and time to discussing the difference between conversation and negotiation. We have our own judicata of the National Assembly, which we adopted in 2007. Let me just remind you of 2004, whether it's a so-called affair or talks between the then head of the opposition, Janez Janša, and the president of the neighbouring country, Mr Sanader. You will all remember that at the time the chief of the opposition denied that he was even talking, he remembered that he was talking in three days, but then we spent the whole year of 2007 discussing whether he was just talking or negotiating. It was your truth that wasn't supposed to be a lie, that he was talking about all the things, the incidents, the borders, the upcoming elections, but he didn't agree anything. And why don't you use these same vats today when you abuse foreign press, especially Croatian press. And you insult the President of the Government, and you want to extort from him what he was also talking to Mrs Jadranka Kosor about in this agreement, which is written down. They've been talking about a lot of things. However, they agreed on what was enshrined in the arbitration agreement. And that's it. That is why, in the end, I will remind my colleague Petko, who spoke about trade, of some of the backgrounds of these arrangements. There's no background. There's no store. However, there may be some kind of trade or background from the past, but those who talked intensively in 2004 and 2005 must say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that the purpose of today's session is, unfortunately, nothing more than to cast more doubts and mistrust among people, with one goal, and this is to reject the arbitration agreement at the referendum. Such a purpose would be to understand, on the one hand, if the opposition would at least try to operate on some arguments, but there are no such arguments. Even more so, when we reject everything you said at some point, you always find something new and try to convince the public that the arbitration agreement is not good. I'm going to point out five key points that were kind of a stumbling block through this whole process. Point one. You started by saying that the arbitration agreement was bad. This is how you wanted to convince the Slovenian public. Your party's president, Janez Janša, himself, said and acknowledged in Polemica that this is the best thing we have on the table, that we might have something better, but that is, if we agree, it is always possible to have something better. But a better agreement, and here we agree, in the history of Slovenia we did not have on the table. When this was denied, you came up with another claim that the arbitration agreement was bad because Slovenia did not allow contact with international waters. This has been proved not to hold that the arbitration agreement nicely records what the two sides agreed on — not in secret — because it is written down. And there is also a record of Slovenia's contact with international waters. When you heard that, you said that the contact would indeed be, so you admitted, but the question is, what will this contact be like?, again you wanted to raise doubts among people. When that wasn't enough, the populism on your side got worse. The Bay of Piran will be divided into half, you said, the port of Koper will be closed in the bay, into some pool, we'll lose the sea. All in all, you have been shown that this cannot happen in an arbitral tribunal or everything is better than the current situation. Today, dear colleagues, Slovenia controls only half of the Bay of Piran, and that is not good. With the Court of Arbitration, which will take account of the relevant circumstances, the historical circumstances, which is very important to us, will come to what was exceeded on 25 June 1991. Not because that's what we want, but because it's in the arbitration agreement. The port of Koper won't be closed in the bay, it won't be closed in some pool. If that were true, this would be happening today. However, it does not happen because ships do not sail after contact, but sail along the east coast up and down the west coast. Do not deceive the public that Luka Koper will be harmed in any way in this account and that we will lose the sea. Please, such demagogies have not been in the National Assembly for a long time. Fourth time. After we have processed all these arguments, we have come to the conclusion that the content of the arbitration agreement is no longer a problem. You are no longer interested in the content, but, beware, the new circumstances you are citing, some secret negotiation between the two countries, what is supposed to be happening in the backstage and so on. There was no secret arrangement. The unilateral declaration by Croatia was written in law, a public document ratified by the Croatian Parliament. So there was no secret arrangement. In response to this, Slovenia has stated nicely that it is the task of the arbitral tribunal to establish territorial contact between the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the open sea. So the preservation of Slovenia's right to contact the open sea, which it had on 25 June 1991 on the date of its independence. We denied everything Croatia had accepted. Today you also see a statement by the United States and Sweden. So that's not true either. And the last thing that matters. When all of this did not actually bring any desired result on the opposition side, you included the Church in the story. Yesterday, the Commission first stated that it was against the agreement and then, when the Commission was confronted with the argument, with Pope Benedict XVI's statement. [[Quote]] That "it is pleased between Croatia and Slovenia that an arbitration agreement has been concluded on their maritime and land borders," and I do not know what this means, other than that the Pope and the Vatican support this agreement. When they presented this statement to the Commission, they said they did not want to influence the opinion of citizens and citizens. They are against it first, and then they do not want to influence the opinion of citizens and citizens. Now I really don't know who's saying anything anymore, whether we're serious about the arguments or not. It's an important historical decision. I will be happy to vote in the "yes" referendum myself, and I hope that people will do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. When I read the request for an extraordinary meeting, I found that there were no concrete indications as to what the new facts would be from the time after the arbitration agreement, which should be specifically identified. So when I thought about why the opposition is calling for a meeting, I gave myself one possible answer: I would like another ten hours of time to be able to spread its views, its untruths, its disapprovals, my speeches to citizens and citizens not to support the arbitration agreement. There is no other reason, because today we have been reconfirmed that the arbitration agreement contains all the tasks that can solve the interests of Slovenia, the border, the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea and other important issues. We found that all of us who wanted to do so knew already in November that Croatia would make its separate declaration, and we knew that Slovenia had such a separate statement that it did not know that it would give it, and that it was therefore also in its Article 3 of the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement that it wrote: "Being aware of the sovereign right of each country to make unilateral declarations and that the Republic of Slovenia was aware of it," you may not, but the Republic of Slovenia was aware of it and all those who wished it, also, "with the intention of the Republic of Croatia to make a unilateral declaration to the arbitration agreement, Slovenia declares that it did not agree with Croatia's declaration of 9 November 2009 or its content." Also: "The Republic of Slovenia declares that the task of the arbitral tribunal is to establish territorial contact between the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the open sea." All things are indisputably clear, the question is whether you are willing to follow them as they are written, or whether you are constantly inventing and insinuating some behavior that is supposed to be in the back that is supposed to be specifically negotiated, not what is really written. My firm conviction is, therefore, the last attempt must be made, and you have done so, continue to speak half-truths and non-truths at this meeting of the National Assembly, to charge that the prepared arbitration agreement, which was also adopted by the National Assembly, is not ripe for a decision at the referendum and for a positive decision, which is extremely inappropriate. It is a pity that such an important issue is being politicised. It is a pity, dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition or three parliamentary parties, that it is more important for you to exercise your political interests today and in the coming months before the elections, but not how you will safeguard Slovenia's interests in relations with Croatia. And I only hope and I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians will also, on the basis of today's discussion, meet these goals, go to the referendum and vote for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Look, of course, we are concerned about how to protect Slovenia's interests when they appear in the last 14 days before the referendum such strong new facts. I have to deny the word on your part that there are no new facts. Is it not a very bad fact that our diplomacy and our government have not informed this Parliament that it is in Croatian law to ratify a clause that says that they have agreed together and have jointly informed the United States of America and the Presidency of the European Union? Does this not testify to the inability of Slovenian diplomacy and Slovenian ruling politics? Isn't this something dangerous for this country that the entire government, Owl, diplomacy and everyone else, doesn't see what they're dementing today? And they didn't send any diplomatic notes of protest. Mr. Secretary, did you agree to agree to this together? The Committee on Foreign Policy has not been informed of this. Mr. Minister, I've been asking you at the last meeting, I don't know, fourteen days or a month ago, about the hidden appendices of the agreement, about the secret annexes. And you denied that there was nothing we didn't know on the Foreign Policy Committee. This is where we found out yesterday. Who can deny that we knew earlier what this says about a joint agreement? And look, these denials that we're about to come, they're not very credible for a while. Because in the seven months, if we believe so bad about this site now, the abuse of Slovenia and the serious fraud introduced in the text of the law, no one reacts, then they have passed the examination of Slovenian diplomacy and the Slovenian intelligence agency, which must follow. The Committee on Foreign Policy and this Parliament should be informed of this. We've had enough closed sessions, so I'm afraid I can't trust you. I'm afraid I can't believe it. And even these denials are at such a level or in such circumstances, when we know that Sweden terminates this month's embassy, and it is not difficult to sacrifice an ambassador or ambassador for a statement, because it is still ending its mandate and will not be able to be hunted down by another word. However, we know of the strong interest of the Swedish Foreign Minister in doing everything in favour of Croatia. And look, this was agreed on October 27th, and the agreement was signed on November 4th. In the meantime, you would inform us what you have agreed with the Croats. That's when they'd inform us, but there was a hurry. And now I find that the government and the government coalition needed a postponement of the referendum, which was originally announced as an exploratory one, and was therefore sent to the Constitutional Court. Thank God that he has been sent to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court has found that, with the possible approval of the arbitration agreement, there will be consequences that will require a change of constitution, as our national territory will be amputated. And that national territory will be amputated, we can be done. At the same time, it is symptomatic to me that young SD invaders, I call them the so-called fruit group, show maps, and ask the Minister and the President of the Government to give a sketch of how they imagine, but they can't offer anything. You can see how purposefully this demagic has been done. And Levanic and I were on local television yesterday. He spoke sovereignly, as he did today Yuri, that the agreement would be annulled if there was no territorial contact. Why doesn't Vlačič, who once confessed, have been arrested by international lawyers and denied by Pahor that the agreement is binding because he knows that there will be no territorial links between the Slovenian sea and international waters. If it were that kind of contact, our ships would have to go through Shivanka's ear. That's physically impossible. I must say that the signatories to the Agreement of Understanding were also mentioned here. It is frantic for me that they are almost the same as the petitioners. Previously, the Minister was sitting here, which she even called unconstitutional. Today, you are glorifying people who practically want to end the army in every way, then the maritime status of Slovenia and consequently the destruction of Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways, the last coming with the petition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I also note that the very title of today's point is completely fictitious, if I may say so, because no new circumstances have been discovered or have occurred since Parliament adopted an arbitration agreement. I'm talking about our Parliament. However, the fact is that when we had to vote on this arbitration agreement, we voted in essence only by coalition Members, the opposition was not then, meaning that they could not make important decisions and that this decision should be in favour or against, they simply could not decide. That is why we are talking today about having a referendum in June. However, the decision that this instant opposition wishes to present is that it has not been able to express itself against this arbitration agreement, I repeat, in its vote. Why do you convince voters and voters to vote against it if you can't make that decision on your own? That's very unfair. I think that today's meeting is also another one of those that only contributes to trying to cloud certain clear facts, and these clear facts are that the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia have agreed on an arbitration agreement and that we are waiting only for this ratification at the referendum in Slovenia, otherwise these procedures for the establishment of an arbitration tribunal would have already taken place. This is how we look forward to this process actually starting when we make this clear at the referendum in Slovenia. However, it is important that this arbitration agreement is adopted for a simple reason, because in fact all unilateral decisions of the Republic of Croatia after 25.6.1991 will not be taken into account. It is clearly stated that there will be a certain contact with the high seas, it is clearly stated that any acts which have been submitted to the European Union in order for Croatia to join the European Union will not be taken into account in that part which sets the limit, whether it be an act or a map. This is very clearly stated in this agreement, and I think that any other representation and not least the attempt to mislead the public that this is a harmful arbitration agreement is, of course, a very large injustice that can happen to all those who believe these allegations. If anything is important, however, it is important that we resolve this conflict peacefully. Not to resolve this conflict in a way that would open up a number of new issues that would be significantly more serious than those that we are trying to talk about today in a peaceful way. It is therefore very important that we resolve this dispute in a peaceful manner and by means of this arbitration agreement we also ensure that all the vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia are enshrined in this agreement in a way that can also be achieved and realized. In these years alone, Slovenia has not been able to get anyone on paper, much less to the extent that both parliaments, both Croatian and Slovenian, have decided on it. No one has been able to bring this to this point. Today we have this document, which is certainly in the future, if it is not supported at the referendum, it will not be possible for anyone to draw it up again in such or even more favourable form for Slovenia. These are facts that suggest that if conditions remain the way they are now, without border regulation, this is bad for Slovenia, it is to the detriment of Slovenia. And to defend something that is to the detriment of Slovenia is true, at least I hope to say so, mildly, very unfair. I want all these clear positions, which are very important for the resolution of this dispute and for the further development of Slovenia, to be confirmed at the referendum and to put an end to all these debates in our Parliament and also to all those debates that should follow if this agreement were not adopted. We both need a new impetus in this region, we need a new dimension of cooperation, and I think that we are able to take the final decisions of the arbitral tribunal in fact to apply it. And these are the arguments on which I, and also all those with whom I speak, will try to convince them to vote in favour of the arbitration agreement at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Mrs Pečan has the word or, sorry, Mr Guido Kres is earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We must admit that all the parliamentary groups have already participated in various governments at this time of the independent Republic of Slovenia. But it is true that power was divided according to what we received in the elections. And the power of the Slovenian People's Party was never so great that we could put a decisive issue here and also take the matter forward and perhaps lead to the conclusion that we would not be talking today in the way that we are. However, your colleagues from the SD have received an important resource soon after this time of independence and you have not taken any decisive steps. And who is most responsible for such a situation? It is most likely that those politicians who then did not take the positions they should have taken and, of course, all of them are still a little behind. When I came to this Parliament, I particularly resented the fact that it did not want to take account of the specific historical circumstances, the historical facts and the principle of justice. They didn't accept it at all. And now tell me in what way I don't know any friendship. I can cultivate or strive for a fair relationship, a principled attitude, and more is needed for friendship. In my opinion, our relations are at a very low level. They were the best when we were lonely. We were just kind of in the middle of something back then. And in all this time, I have heard, and also later, how Slovenian policy helps Croatia. Now, whether she really helped or didn't help, I don't know. They probably see it differently in Croatia, we see it differently. And at the end of the day, we've all done that, now I could say, we've gambled on the imaginary friendship at this time, or maybe it's even real, I can't talk about it. Today, it was also said in the debate what rating we have among Croatian citizens, in which case it was the fans for whom they would cheer. They'll be cheering more for the Serbs. We're in fourth place. But why? Most likely because Serbs were able to stand up for their cause, they were defending it, tragic stories were happening, which is not exactly an appropriate comparison. But we should have taken our positions a long time ago and behaved according to that Slovenian logic that says it is better to be the first to resent than the second. And if we were to do so, we might not be talking today in the way we need to talk and defend ourselves today. Now for my decision. I have absolutely nothing else to say in this case than to worry about how this arbitration is going to end. That's why I'm worried, I'm a man who doesn't gamble, I don't gamble. And I have a feeling that in this case, we're putting too much on Slovenians. That is why I will decide against the arbitration agreement. But all the people who are following us, I urge them to decide after who has shown better arguments, to whom they believe more, and to make a choice of their own free will, in their own belief, after what we are talking about here. But I would very much like to see that we agree on this between us not to go to arbitration or referendum with these questions. As a quiet diplomacy took place in this case, if we had come to arbitration, a quiet agreement between us could have taken place in order to really have once a position none of us would have given up. Such views could then be as powerful a weapon as the one-stop shop of the policy of the Republic of Croatia, which certainly works very well in this area. However, I must say that we must not be equal between citizens, the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia and politics. With us in Slovenia, I have never observed that our people against Croatian citizens or Croatian fellow citizens living in our country would be negatively targeted. Unfortunately, this has happened in Croatia in the past. The truth is that, at this point in time, in Croatia, these things do not have the same potential as they have in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary has raised his hand. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. I apologize to Mrs. Pecan. There are some things I'd like to comment on. First of all, I would like to appeal to Mr Jerovska, but also to everyone else, that we do not involve other countries in this story in the way we involve them today, regarding the comments we have heard about Italy today, about its intentions against Slovenia, about the way Sweden behaves or the Swedish Foreign Minister. I think we need to leave the countries out of our internal affairs. Let us not harm Slovenia's external relations with these countries or Slovenia's positions in international relations by misusing these countries for internal purposes. A recent experience with the Slovenian minority in Koroška, how we harmed her when we involved her in internal stories, I think she is still alive. About the arbitration agreement, which is dead, I wanted to say a few words, as was said here today or that the arbitration agreement is null and void., I want to strongly reject any suggestion that the arbitration agreement was a fraud and that it is also null and void. On the contrary, all informal discussions held under the auspices of the European Commission and then bilaterally, with the presence of the European Commission or the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the Commissioner for Enlargement, took place openly and in good faith. The indications that the arbitration agreement is dead are based on ignorance of international law or on deliberate deception. The Vienna Convention on Contractual Law of 1969, in the second section, deals specifically with the nullity of contracts. Thus, Articles 46 to 53 set out justifiable and unjustified grounds for the annulment of international treaties. And it lists as legitimate reasons the error, fraud, bribery by a representative of the State, coercion by a representative of the State, coercion by a country with threats or by force. Therefore, none of the reasons to be taken into account in relation to the arbitration agreement. These are the reasons why the agreement is null and void if an agreement has been concluded under these conditions, as set out in the declaration. Article 49 of the Vienna Convention also defines the fraud that has been discussed here. The State, when it has been led to the conclusion of a contract by another State involved in the negotiations by means of fraud, may refer to fraud for which the consent to be bound by the treaty is null and void. Slovenia and Croatia negotiated an arbitration agreement in good faith. There are no hidden arrangements, Mr Jerovšek. I reiterate that there are no secret agreements, no joint agreements, no frauds. Both parties agreed to resolve the dispute in the manner set out in this and in this arbitration agreement, in order to resolve the dispute on the basis of an arbitration agreement. All unilateral declarations, or all cases relating to a unilateral declaration, also took place after the signing of an arbitration agreement, which is the only relevant decision of the arbitral tribunal. Mr Jerovšek, it is also not true that we did not inform the Committee on Foreign Policy. I mentioned earlier the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 3 November, where we have reported this, even in writing. In the report on the negotiations for the conclusion of the agreement, we stated that there is a possibility for Croatia to make a unilateral statement and then we would not repeat it because I had previously read this whole part of the report, but we have warned the Committee on Foreign Policy that there is a possibility that we could prevent it, so that there was no unilateral declaration before the signing, not at the time of the signing of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u79	Here's a replica, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Dear Minister, I don't know if you're having an argument with me or with the Slovenian public. I think we're asking very relevant questions here from the opposition. You'll probably tell me that I'm on every foreign policy committee, and I probably still have a pretty good memory of what was said, what wasn't said. If I start here at the end, November 3rd. I know. It was about a possible statement. But now I read in the Croatian law that there was an agreement on what would happen on October 27th. And not everything was said. I doubt that you have talked about this, because Croatians are citing a strategy on how to outsmart the Slovenian public. After the signature, it should be published. This is a system of overcrowding, a plan of overcrowding of the Slovenian public. And I don't accept your statement about the involvement of other countries. We have to tell the Slovenian public. Do you think that Swedish diplomacy had an equivalent to the interests of Slovenia and Croatia? I am sure that the Swedish ambassador in Zagreb has seen what is written in the Croatian law. And I'm sure. And he wrote it in the dispatch, and Sweden didn't deny it at the time. I don't know, Slovenian diplomacy probably covered it up here. Sweden, however, did not demente at the time. At that time, they would have been so demented as to be credible to me. They're much less today. I'm sorry. And I also reject because the incorrect mention of the Slovenian minority is in Austria. Who involved her? Whether it was involved by our House or by the Slovenian Democratic Party, then in the previous system, which was not, they swore that there would never be any party. And it was that clear plan to harm the people's world, and now the Foreign Minister is accusing democratic parties. That was the plan of destroying the nation's world and involving individual names, shamefully. I know they are hurt, but they must be excused by the Slovenian state on behalf of the work of the Owl, which even went to terrorism. And please, Mr Foreign Minister, in this way Slovenian interests in the international community will not be defended if you try to do what the Uda did to the opposition. Please! Let your diplomats follow what the Croats are doing and inform the Foreign Policy Committee. And there was no talk about that on November 3rd.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Mr Jerovšek, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u82	a late statement. [[...]] That's not how diplomacy turned out there, either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u84	They say he likes to go to third. At the same time, I'm happy, and I love reading science fiction and fiction. And today I witnessed a fantastic event in the National Assembly. In fact, I have found that Mr Janez Janša finally found that Croatia made a separate statement last November on its unwillingness to withdraw from Slovenia's territorial access to the open sea. And interestingly enough, he wasn't the only one who knew. It all shows that this discovery, which took place three or four days ago, was because we had to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in order for the universal Slovenia to know that Mr Janez Janša did not know until today that Croatia had adopted, in the framework of the ratification of the arbitration agreement, also Article 3 of the law itself, where she made this declaration, which she then forwarded to America and Sweden, while denying that Slovenia had also criticised, rejected, rejected such a declaration and said that it was not acceptable that it could simply not apply to the arbitration agreement. And we also have a law on an arbitration agreement which, of course, you did not wish to confirm or to vote on it, but you prefer to go out, only it does not oblige you to know what is stated in Article 3 of our Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement because it states precisely this, "taking into account the sovereign right of each State to make unilateral declarations and, in so far as the Republic of Slovenia was aware of the intention of the Republic of Croatia to make a unilateral declaration to the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed in Stockholm on 4 November, the Republic of Slovenia stated that it did not agree with the declaration of the Republic of Croatia on 9 November 2009 or its content. The Republic of Slovenia declares that, in accordance with international law, the unilateral declaration made in respect of the arbitration agreement has no effect on its content and that the Republic of Croatia’s declaration of 10 November 2009 has no effect on the arbitration procedure. The Republic of Slovenia declares that it is the task of the arbitral tribunal to establish territorial contact between the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the open sea, the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, that is, the maintenance of the right of Slovenia to contact the open sea, which it had on 25 June 1991 on the date of its independence. The Republic of Slovenia shall also declare that the arbitration agreement is interpreted in accordance with the normal meaning of the terms in the provisions of the Agreement itself." If you couldn't read it, then you didn't want it or you're illiterate. And the whole of Slovenia was informed several times by the Government through the media last November, by political parties, about what was happening with regard to the ratification of this arbitration agreement in the Croatian Parliament and what our reaction to it was. We have adopted such a law on ratification, so Article 3 of this law has this law and now you are moving around here and talking as if you have never heard before in your life that such a law was given into the parliamentary procedure of April, and we have also adopted such a law. Please, let's stop bickering and scare people by not being able to get in international waters with our and our foreign ships. If not, our ships are now driving across the Croatian sea to Kopra, the Croatian and Slovenian seas to Kopra and the Slovenian and Italian seas from Kopra, and nothing bad is happening in this regard. But you are awfully smart and you know the whole of Slovenia to talk about how our government screwed up all things. You wanted to dump them, only luckily you didn't make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right that today this debate or discussion has taken place when we influence the historical decision of Slovenia and the Slovenians in the future referendum. In today's debate, there have been quite a few strong, reasonable views that rightly arouse fear and discomfort in the context of the average Slovenian concern about the referendum. On the other hand, we can listen to the extremely irresponsible deception and the inadequacies that the government representatives and coalition MPs are spending. We have also heard such nebulosis, such as that the political existence of SNS and SLS should be based solely on the unresolved border issue with Croatia. This honourable Member is indeed a political analyst of top-notch metal. What would you think if one of us said that Slovenian Social Democracy was building its political foundations solely on the disastrous economic, social, financial and moral situation that has ruled Slovenia since the SD was in power. So much to think about. When we listen to thoughts and theories about all the wisdom of the content of this arbitration agreement, according to domestically, the usual creak to the detriment of Slovenia, you are unwittingly reminding me of the masterpiece of Slovenian literature, these are the Butals of Fran Milczynski. You can only guess twice which government, either Croatian or Slovenian, one impartially reasonable observer would assign to the Butals and which Tepanjčians. You have really brought us and all the Slovenian people into an incredible mess, and now you want to transfer with a referendum all responsibility to the Slovenian people and what we have heard today from the President of the Government, even with infinite cross-border or boundless responsibility. How should we comment on such a level of responsibility? Better not. This responsibility creates such a risk and a lack of confidence in Slovenian politics for the Slovenian people that I am not surprised by the confusion of the average Slovenian. And let me draw attention to the fact that approximately 80% of Slovenes and Slovenes do not really know what is true and what is not true of all the propaganda that the current Slovenian government is pursuing. And then you demand and expect their reasonable and for the Slovenian people a life decision. Indeed, the former government was smarter. If you can't solve the problem for your own good right now, you better wait, at least you won't do any harm to your own people. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not in any way agree that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia negotiates territories that are indisputably owned by the Republic of Slovenia and have been quietly occupied by Croatia in the years following its independence. The Arbitration Agreement does not allow us to have a direct territorial exit into international waters or gives us any assurance that we will maintain territorial contact with international waters upon the decision of the arbitrators. The decision will depend to the greatest extent on the negotiating capabilities of both countries. Maybe even more so than what's happening in the backroom. And that's what I'm worried about. History teaches us that Croatia is always more successful in this business than the Slovenians. This is proven and you can trust me. The submitted arbitration agreement is written only for the benefit of Croatia. That's why they accepted it so quickly, with such a large majority. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also been involved in the drafting of an arbitration agreement in favour of Croatia since the beginning, which has agreed to the pressures of the European Union’s masters, and even more from the United States, as we have heard today. What they've been doing, it'll only show history. Confirmation of the arbitration agreement at the referendum means the end and the collapse of the independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia in terms of territorial sovereignty and integrity. All the victims of the Slovenian nation in history, all the shed blood for the country will be given in some way. The fact is, in the last century, we Slovenians have lost almost half of their national territory. In 1920, Slovenia lost Koroška. After World War II, Slovenia also lost Trieste and Gorica. At that time, the border between Slovenia and Italy was determined by leaving more than 120 thousand Slovenians in Italy. At the same time, Croatia also received most of Istria, which has never been its own in history. So they have been very successful in the past in negotiating where to get something. Or will we now allow the seas and access to international waters to be taken away from us? We've already been occupied by about 800 hectares of land along the land border, which no one wants to talk about today. Go to the field, go to Prekmurje, ask the Hotizans, see how they feel about how they understand such a government policy. Slovenian citizens and citizens must not let the fate of our country, all of us are decided by people acting in accordance with the instructions of some large countries, such as the United States, for example, because of their own interests and only their own interests, lobby for the benefit of Croatia. It is the duty of all conscious Slovenians and Slovenes to vote against the agreement and thereby save and preserve our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize for my previous reaction. I must say that today I am disappointed, sad, in some way also confused when I listen to all these discussions from the opposition, when I hear all these conscious Slovenes, especially there on the left, when they do not choose the means when they are ready even in the middle of this hall to speak Croatian, but before they speak what the national people are. The victory of Jelinčič is ready even to speak Croatian in this Slovenian Parliament. I'm gonna say one thing. There was no basis for today's session. This has been proven several times today. Finally, Sweden and the Americans or embassies reported that there were no such or different arrangements between the governments of Slovenia and Croatia. That is why this is a purely pre-referendum meeting today, and I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens will be able to draw a picture and 6. 6. rescue this Gordy knot that's been wrapping us around our neck for 20 years. And it's going to be six. 6. know what's right and what's wrong. And by doing so, we will solve a real problem that has plagued Slovenia for 19 years. However, I would like to say that we are not saving Slovenia and Slovenia only because of the human relations of this problem, but also because of the economy. And when the members of the opposition say that this will cause Luke to suffer, I must remind you that as much damage as you did in the previous mandate of the coastal economy, no arbitration agreement can do, even if there were 15 articles in it. I believe that this arbitration agreement will be successful for Slovenia and that the arbitrators will fairly set all borders and thus resolve the dispute we have with the Slovenians and Croats due to unresolved problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Today's meeting is just another chapter in the very clear strategy of the opposition to introduce very confused and complicated circumstances or other fantasies about what the content of the arbitration agreement is, in fact, confuses the Slovenian people and it does not gain so much on its side, but turns them away from participating in the referendum on 6 June. I trust this nation, and I count that these vain attempts of the opposition will not convince it, and that people in the highest possible number will attend the referendum and decide on what ensures a just and good solution to the border between the two countries. We first saw an explanation of how it would be better to base the agreement on the ex aequo et bono principle, and later our diplomacy and also many international lawyers proved that this principle was already covered in the arbitration agreement, not by the name of the principle, but by describing that the principle of fairness and all other relevant circumstances, including historical circumstances, including on 25 June 1991 and our proof that we had jurisdiction over the entire Gulf of Piran. We have heard long and wide that the arbitration agreement will provide greater service and that contact is not a territorial contact. What can be the contact between territory and another entity if not territorial contact? I am convinced that Prime Minister Pahor has managed with great care and consistent respect for all that Slovenian policy has recognized over the past 20 years as vital national interests in the border issue, to conclude and achieve a good agreement that guarantees a fair border, and in particular what is set out in point 3 (b) of the agreement, that is to say the determination of Slovenia's contact with the open sea. There's a lot of interference in this intense referendum campaign. I am extremely disturbed by the abuse of General Maister's character by opponents of the arbitration agreement on T-shirts with the slogan "Maister would be vying". General Maister solved the problems, immediately joined the action, organized the conscious Slovenians and established the northern Slovenian border. And that is also our approach - we are solving problems! I think that, above all, the social and economic situation in our country should finally teach us that problems need to be solved. And I am proud to support the Government, which takes a confident and courageous approach to solving the problem. It's clear. Voters and voters don't need much propaganda material. They need the text of the agreement. And there is no need to be an international lawyer that you understand the very clear text of the arbitration agreement exactly as it is written. And just as it is written, it will be interpreted by the arbitral tribunal, including the statement that all unilateral acts are after 25. 6. 1991 is legally irrelevant to this arbitral tribunal. By the way, even unilateral declarations after the signing of the arbitration agreement. Finally, as a member of the fruit section, Mr Jerovšek, I am sure that the section of fruit in the National Assembly is also far more wise than the long debates that we sometimes have to listen to from a Member with as long an internship as you are personally. With all due respect, I think that, given this internship, we should learn a little political culture also in relation to our colleagues, colleagues and colleagues in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're supposed to be talking about new circumstances today. In fact, I don't know them, except for one, which belongs to the domain of civil society and not to government organisations — not to Croatian and not to Slovenian. And that is the fact that, after the Commission's communication yesterday, Justice and Peace, this informal speaker of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, this commission essentially rejected the arbitration agreement. This fact is perfectly legitimate and no one can challenge it. It is worth recalling, however, that in many public debates we have heard that an arbitration agreement should be rejected already because it is cheered on by the Vatican and the United States, and this would be in the light of future possible developments when the European Union breaks down or changes in order to establish a Central European Catholic Confederation under the leadership of the Catholic Croatia, Austria and in this light it would be good for Slovenia to be deprived of Slovenia because it would link it to this confederacy. Let's leave these things at the side, but the fact is, things have changed a lot now. And this thinking is in some ways correct, only that this coalition exists, but it exists in Slovenia, but it is against the arbitration agreement and not for it. It seems clear to me that, at this arbitration agreement, there is now much more to the second stage of the debate, not only the arbitration agreement, but the consolidation of certain political forces, let's say the Slovenian right, which is more important than the debate and question of the arbitration agreement and the resolution of the border. So much for broader circumstances. I'd like to say something about contact. It is clear that the arbitration agreement provides that only contact should be established. The arbitration agreement concerns territorial units. Slovenia, as it is said, has a land and a territorial sea. It's her territory. When it comes to territorial units, believe me, this contact is just physical, it's no different. This is the physical contact of the Slovenian territorial sea with the open sea. And why is that? Because if it wasn't. I wonder why Croatia has even adopted a special statement saying that this is not physical contact and so on. Croatia itself, by making this declaration, in some way recognises that this is a matter of such contact and from this in a separate, null and void statement of judgment before the arbitral tribunal is distanced. That's her problem, her internal political problem. However, the fact is that in some ways Croatia, by its separate statement without knowing it and wishing it, acknowledged that this is what the agreement is about, otherwise it would not have made any declaration, would have been safe, safe, and without any declaration. This is how Croatia denies it. He says in this agreement, about this contact or in this additional position "as agreed with the Slovenian side". Yeah, okay. Give me Samuel Žbogar's signature, Borut Pahor's signature on this agreement to give a separate statement and I'll give such a signature if it's a day, believe it, and ask some of the things those who would sign it. We didn't see it. Nobody brought it. When someone brings it in, we can talk about it. Come in. What's the alternative? My friend Janš said there were three alternatives. The first alternative is an agreement expressly stating that the court must set a limit on the principle of external justice, which was reached in 2007 by consensus or agreement between Slovenian parliamentary parties. Now I won't go into the interpretation of this consensus, I could write it, it would take too much time, but the fact is they didn't propose an ex aequo et bono trial. The special agreement that we have includes only a reference to a court ruling in a dispute primarily on the basis of Article 38(2) of the Statute is not mentioned ex aequo et bono. This second paragraph, however, allows for an ex aequo et bono judgment if both parties agree, but this is not necessary. The Court may decide if they both agree to judge by this principle, otherwise it may judge by the rules of international law. There are no signs that this principle will really be decided ex aequo et bono. This is in a document prepared by the previous government. Another time. The alternative is an agreement, which will undoubtedly state that the signatories agree that Slovenia has a Piran Bay and a territorial exit into international waters. Excellent alternative, I agree with her. But you have to ask the Croats, I'm sorry. The third alternative is the ratification of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, which is an acceptable compromise for Slovenia to establish the southern border, at least from the minimum that Slovenia could possibly agree to. Unfortunately, this agreement, Drnovšek-Račan, which could be ratified tomorrow in the National Assembly, appeared to have fallen or was thrown into Lake Bled, when a derogation was made from bilateral resolution to multilateral resolution before the third. And this solution before the third was even the International Court of Justice in The Hague. If Croatia's strategy was contrary to the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, then Slovenia's strategy must be away from the Hague court, because this court is a geographical court and would no doubt judge our harm if we are looking at our historical and other interests, real interests in this area. This transition to arbitration was possible and it happened only then, we need to know that when Sanader resigned, otherwise we were all blocked. Why Mr. Sanader resigned, we don't know. Probably not because of that. But since he had given up, for whatever reason, that path had been opened and had happened. There's one more thing I'd like to comment on, a massacre. My seat is just as far away from the fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Mag. Radovana Žerjava, from colleague Ivan Grill, as his seat is far from my seat. When we speak of this slaughter, let us be at least fair enough to say that we have contributed to the slaughter of all, one and the other, that it is not just one side that causes the slaughter. At least at this fair level we must say this and not accuse the other party of sharing the Slovenian public if the opinion of the opposite party is exactly the same as that of the public. At least let us be so patient and ask ourselves why we do so. I'd just like to mention the following. I must say, after that meeting in Bled in 2008, I was at a meeting with the then Prime Minister of the Government. I was terribly disappointed, and there were some things I said. However, it occurred to me that I would go out and criticize the President of the Government or the Government, because I felt that he would do even more harm, and that we would already agree with each other during the negotiation that we would come from The Hague at least to an arbitration tribunal or tribunal. I can't find this position right now. Here is now the arbitration agreement another point in other divisions and fights, and this worries me. It is therefore right to go back to what this agreement really is, what is not, what makes possible, what risks it entails, whether these risks are reasonable. I myself think that the risks are reasonable within this arbitration agreement, less than anything else I have heard so far. I hope that at least the debate is going this way. That's what I have to say next. Frankly, until now, the Slovenian Democratic Party has never voted against this version of the arbitration agreement, not yet. She only voted once for the referendum. There has never been such a vote in all the votes so far. This is also significant in its own way, after all, it can be promising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Unlike the coalition Members and Members who say that this meeting is not necessary, I must say that there is still a need for a decision before the referendum on 6 June. Today, we have the opportunity to speak about some conflicting statements, the obvious lies that have arisen from individuals, the perversions and talk about new facts, now known, even with the deception of the fake arbitration agreement, which is now much more favourable for the Croatian side than for Slovenia. Why am I saying this? Croatia adopted a specific declaration at the time of ratification in which it recorded [[Quote]] : "Nothing in the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be considered to be the landing of Croatia at the request of Slovenia after territorial contact with the open sea". This is what Croatia wrote in the law. Today, this statement, which is enshrined in the law, is denied by the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. This statement was also denied by the Swedish Embassy, saying that Croatia, together with Slovenia, would have taken any note of this unilateral statement. And of course, today we can rightly wonder who is actually lying here. Who's lying about this? If Sweden is not lying, it is obvious that Croatia is lying, which has adopted this agreement with fraud. At this point, alarms should start to ring not only to the President of the Government, but also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the whole Government, the entire Slovenian space, if they do not want the international public simply to have them as slippers, as once expressed by the associate Prime Minister of the Government after his last name, Mr Boris Pahor. So, at this point, in my opinion, given these new facts, Slovenia should clearly say no to this arbitration agreement and declare it null and void. Why am I saying this? The Vienna Convention on Contractual Law, in its 49th Article, clearly states: "The State which was led to the conclusion of another State which has participated in the negotiations with fraud may refer to fraud, which is why the consent to be bound by the treaty is null and void." I believe that this should be enough for those working on this arbitration agreement to start thinking more realistically and more healthyly. Of course, more different contradictory statements were made and unclear. Mr Pahor repeatedly claimed that Prime Minister Kosor had promised him the territorial contact of the Slovenian sea with international waters, although he could never explain when this had happened, where it had happened. Then, of course, Croatia's strong denial of this declaration followed. Prime Minister Kosor also lied to the president of the Slovenian government. It is more than obvious that we have too much uncertainty here to go into such a risky story as this arbitration agreement. Why should we be in a hurry to sell out some territory that belongs to us? Why should we agree as a full member of the European Union to blackmail Croatia? Why can't we value our own territory at least half as much as they value their own territory? I'm sorry, I'll never understand. For Slovenia, the arbitration agreement is weak because it threatens the state's maritime status, threatens the territorial link between the Republic of Slovenia and international waters and threatens the economic interests of Luka Koper. And these are certainly not irrelevant facts. Let me get this straight. I stand alone in the position that a country with an exit to the open sea is a large country, even if it has only two million inhabitants. However, a country that does not have an exit to the open sea, although it has it and belongs to it at the moment, would only get a swimming pool after the arbitration agreement has been adopted, but it is a small country. And it's not just territorial, it's also in the head. That is why I am against this arbitration agreement, and I also believe that Slovenians and Slovenians will be able to overestimate it and vote against it on 6 June.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Foreign Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to call for a start on two messages. One came from the SDS Group and bears the title The Arbitration Agreement is dead. From my point of view, the arbitration agreement will be dead if we reject it at the referendum on 6 June. However, the second communication was published at the STA and says that the International Law Society supports the arbitration agreement. I'm only going to read one piece from this text, a little piece. The members expressed concern, I state, "for the legally unprofessionally reasoned views which appear in public and do not have support in international law. They also note that the current situation, the status quo in disputed areas of Slovenia is not beneficial. They are convinced that the agreement is good and will also contribute to the further consolidation of the friendly relations between Slovenia and Croatia". Such an expert association of international lawyers and I have no reason not to believe them. But I cannot trust those who constantly change their views. Today it was possible to hear that the policy was incompetent and has now decided to postpone the decision to the people at the referendum. These same people from the same parliamentary groups who had long ago warned or even threatened to call for an arbitration agreement. Why should I believe now that their purposes are clear and clear? And they voted in favour of the referendum. This is so important. Interestingly, they did not vote on an arbitration agreement. When we adopted the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement at the April session, some remained outside and probably now feel this as a missed opportunity to express their views and therefore requested that this meeting be convened, which would reveal the new circumstances. Yes, what are these new circumstances? I am already ashamed that the Foreign Minister had to remind the members of the Foreign Policy Committee that they had been informed on 3 November of the possibility of a unilateral Croatian declaration concerning an arbitration agreement. It's like we have amnesia and we don't realize it. And last but not least, look, there's a lot of talk about the constitutional right to information. When households received the text of the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement, this would not be good and right now. But I call on citizens and citizens to take this notice into their hands and to see that the ratification law has six articles and this is the framework in which the arbitration agreement is put into place. In three languages, the arbitration agreement has been written, three heads of government have signed it, and there you have everything you need to know about the arbitration agreement in eleven articles. And Slovenian and Croatian ratification laws have each of their 3rd articles, in which Croatia made its declaration, and we have written in this 3rd article that we do not agree with such a unilateral declaration. Who's been hiding something? What new circumstances? I am very sorry if some colleagues and colleagues consider what they later read to be new circumstances. I would really like to know the new circumstances, but from what I have heard so far, I have not found them. However, I have also become convinced that today's session of some kind is before the referendum campaign, at which each of us seems to have to say how he will vote. And I'm gonna get it over with. I will vote in favour of the arbitration agreement because it regulates what bilaterally could not be regulated and because I trust that in the arbitral tribunal they will be trained, fair lawyers who will be able to read the memorandum that Slovenia will prepare and this memorandum will be a good basis for the judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much and very much! It doesn't matter what we think, what the arbitrators will be capable of, what the lawyers will be capable of. However, from this legal point of view, it is important what our constitutional courts think, because here it is only a peak, a flower, or at least it should be, Slovenian law. Articles 62 and 63 of the Explanation on this Arbitration Agreement stated that the Constitutional Court had warned the National Assembly that it would make sense to amend the Constitution in order not to result in unconstitutional domestic law precisely for the purpose of implementing the Arbitration Agreement. Well, that's important. It doesn't matter what we think in politics. Those who are not lawyers do well to read a legal opinion, including Dr. Toneta Jerovšek, Dr. You know, the important thing is that we politicians are not supposed to do this so hard to break up and separate the Slovenian nation. This has never happened in Slovenian politics after independence, except now that this flower, which was in power 50 years ago, is once again in bloom. He disintegrated us with power, not with a power argument. Well, for them, there's a strong argument. Before voting on the Arbitration Agreement Act, some of you mentioned that we remained outside. No, you pushed us out of this hall because you gave us one minute of discussion. This is cynical — and you had the power of the majority. The Constitutional Court stated that the decision of the arbitral tribunal would have constitutional consequences. This means: it is unfair, unfair and unusual to make decisions by a simple majority. The one responsible for this anarchy that is happening, for this referendum, is the government coalition, which for the first time in Slovenian history has allowed itself to do something like this, i.e. to intervene into the constitutional, terrestrial and maritime integrity of our country by unilateral decision of the left government coalition. And you have no right, colleagues and colleagues, even though you have the opportunity and the power to run this country, but you have no right to waste this country, you have no right to trample on what we are 23. On 12th 1990, we voted in a referendum - that we want a state of our own. And what we voted on that day is ours, mine, and I believe the Slovenian people will keep it at 6. 6. and went to the referendum and voted against the arbitration agreement. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, would like to enter Slovenian history as well as some or, say, as General Rudolf Maister. And you know he did it! The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, will be recorded in Slovenian history. Even in 100 or 200 years, they'll remember him, and most of us, of course, won't remember him. Maistra remembers Slovenian history in the light part of Slovenian history, that we who come from Styerska are in the Slovenian Parliament, we can thank him, even though he was ridiculed by the Ljubljana Summit at the time. So he kept part of Slovenia. Pahor will be the one who will be remembered by Slovenian history at the dump of Slovenian history. He is the only president, the only one, the first, I believe, and I hope that the last president of the Slovenian government, who hoped to sign a capitulation that he hoped to co-operate with Croatia in an area where Croatia undisputedly occupied Slovenian territories. And by the constitution and by the laws and by the voices that he has received, he should not have allowed himself to do so. The President of the Government today referred to the words of the pope in the Slovenian Parliament to his satisfaction that the pope supports this agreement. The President of Parliament previously called and spoke of the Škofov Conference of Justice and Peace that he disagreed and was against the agreement. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Of course, the pope was not talking about an agreement, but he was talking about honesty and justice. The promise is that people too [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, time's up. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I think it would be good to listen carefully to what Members are saying, to have the opportunity of those who use very difficult words, to accuse the Prime Minister of being a collaborator, to sell the land and so on. I think that goes beyond anything and that no one in this room has the right to talk about any of us being a collaborator.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. Well, I think you've all heard that, even on my left, and we'll be more careful with the words. Mr. Verlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! However we are facing an arbitration agreement today, the question is whether Slovenia will have or will not have territory at sea after the referendum. It's simple. Today, ships, also in accordance with a separate shipping scheme signed by all three countries, if we look closely, drive to Luka Koper on the Slovenian territorial sea. From international waters comes every ship on the Slovenian territorial sea, lands in Luka Koper and then turns back on the Italian side; this is actually today's situation. Well, and as provided for in the arbitration agreement, the border at sea and land, as provided for in Article 3, shall be determined in accordance with international law, it is clear that Slovenia will belong to this piece. Which means that if we do not vote against it, the ships that will sail to the port of Cyprus will have to sail through the Croatian territorial sea to the Slovenian territorial sea and then back to the Italian side. Look, this is the whole philosophy of today's debate. We are warming it up very politically, of course, but the legal profession has also warned about this. Certainly acknowledge the authority of the former MP who sat in your ranks, this is Prof. Dr. Marko Pavliha, who is today the head of the Faculty of Law at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport and also the teacher of the current Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič. And he said on his website on his blog how he felt about the arbitration agreement. No SDS, not SLS! A lawyer with authority has references, and you know him very well because he is your former fellow Member. He's against the arbitration agreement. And he wrote beautifully, "stick is less than territorial access." The Arbitration Agreement speaks only of the contact of Slovenia with the territorial sea. Colleagues and colleagues, why didn't we write a territorial contact? Why didn't we say bob beans? We can read it exactly as Dr. Mark Pavlich wrote. Why? Why, if you're speaking territorially, why isn't it written? Contact Slovenia with the territorial sea. Why are we talking about the principle of external justice ex aequo et bono, that in that article, the contact of Slovenia with the high seas will be determined in accordance with the relevant circumstances - in short, we repeat the Convention on the Law of the Sea - why have we not written that a limit will be set at sea and land under international law and in accordance with the principle of external justice? Why not? Why does external justice revolve around certain sentences? Why? Why is the diagnosis written in Latin? Exactly! You don't write kidney stones, I don't know, pain in the left side of the back, but it's written exactly in Latin. Therefore, ex aequo et bono is also an international legal standard whereby everyone would know how to decide. But no. Because, as you say, colleagues and colleagues on the side of the arbitration agreement, because you well know that contacting Slovenia with the high seas can also mean a harmless service crossing and please read international law or ask Dr. Patrick Vlačič what the Convention on the Law of the Sea says about the service crossing. The country that is sovereign in its territory, and Croatia will be indisputable, has the right to designate all ships that travel on this service route of the regime, as prescribed by it. And one more thing. It must also take account of the density of traffic. So, why are we saying that Luca Koper won't have a problem? Oh, yes, she will, because ships will have to drive through the Croatian territorial sea and, if the density of traffic is to be taken into account, of course, the Croatian side will do so and enforce it, as the Convention on the Law of the Sea allows her to do so. Therefore, look at this, and we will be on the safe side if we vote against the arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you. So today we are supposed to talk about clarifying the new circumstances in which the public was informed after the call for a legislative referendum on the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement. Today, of course, I expected a debate in this direction, and in particular an indication of the new circumstances that would actually be new circumstances. Unfortunately, we are witnessing exactly the opposite today, because today's debate should help make it easier for the people at the referendum to decide. It's easier to decide on the basis of arguments. When we are listening here today to the arguments of those who proposed today's debate, and if we divide the agreement into two words, into "spore" and "reason," I was sure that today in this house he would say "reason". Unfortunately, today he says "slow." I am therefore sorry that certain Members in this house are able to talk about the unilateral behaviour of important institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, where the President of the Republic, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is asked about a large part of the Slovenian legal profession, and if I continue to ask the question of the relationship to this issue is also raised by those who have participated as witnesses in the signing of the arbitration agreement. Thus, statements by both the Swedish Embassy and the United States Embassy's business manager are now placed here in the light, as if they were speaking maliciously. And of course such a relationship does not serve the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia and does not serve as a confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia, for which we expect a memorandum, which will be one of the key elements of the arbitration procedure, to be prepared so that we have a credible position of the Republic of Slovenia. How can we go into these discussions, arguing our views if we let the public know that we do not trust our institutions? It makes me sad. I am convinced that Slovenia is right; that this one will also be able to prove by argument in the arbitration process. In a way that will ensure the vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia. If we only compare what happened in the events of the previous government. Today, as a third alternative, you offer us the acceptance of the Račan-Drnovšek Agreement. How could the former government have allowed a derogation from this, a derogation from the bilateral settlement, agreed to the Hague court, today when we are talking about an arbitration agreement which I understand as being significantly more, so the way to resolve the border dispute, of course, and then return to that position that was on the table, and not able to defend it? When we talk about difficult words when we talk about capitulation, I don't want to talk about it here, but then if we want to talk about these issues properly, of course, the question is, who allowed the bridge over Mura to be built in the previous term, which was a derogation from state 25. Six? Who allowed the Croats to build a dam along the border of Hotiz, far from the middle line? Who authorized the transfer of border stones in the Murski Forest? So these are the issues for which events took place within the mandate of the previous government. I therefore expect the wisdom of the Slovenian people to resolve such an important issue as the determination of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, to settle this on a friendly basis and to settle it with arguments that will, of course, be crucial in determining the border in the arbitration process. And here, of course, reason should be the one who will unify Slovenian politics in these efforts and who would offer Slovenians and Slovenians a proper and fair solution. That is why I am going to vote for such a way of resolving outstanding border issues, because I estimate that after 19 years it is time for both sides of the border to show that we are available to deal with this issue. And if this is the moment in which both countries can exercise their interests also through this process, Slovenia is in a position to regulate the vital interest of contact with the open sea, i.e. its territorial waters with the high seas, and the Republic of Croatia as a desire to join the European Union. I expect that understanding will be sufficient to support this agreement in the interest, in the vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia, to settle this long-standing open question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u105	Mr. Jelinčich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. True, you are a true master in demands of extraordinary meetings and efforts to bring about chaos in this country and to change things. The referendum is, in fact, today's decision on the President of the Government and the Government, but not on this border issue. I have to say, I live at a border where countless wars have been fought. I. World War II, 25 years of Fascism, II. global and something else. And you don't believe what people mean today because it's not there or the Schengen border because it's a free flow. This is more to them than Slovenia's entry into the European Union or NATO or the acquisition of the euro. And that's the limit people want at the Croatian-Slovenian border. Good-neighbourly relations contribute to many things and Gorica and Trieste have been mentioned many times today and I do not know what. More than Gorica today is Slovenian -_ Gorica, not Nova Gorica - Gorica was never Slovenian, even because of good neighbourly relations, because we have our university there because we have many Italian friends who are learning Slovenian and more. They're borderline relations! We didn't care what Rome and Ljubljana think, but how we live our borders. But I'm not gonna talk about content because it doesn't matter. If Minister Žbogar did not convince you with the facts today and Minister Vlačič did not convince you by means of the school way of teaching, if Luka Juri, who had a remarkable performance here, did not achieve this in order to change his opinion, then do not tell us that we are stubborn and that we do not see the reality. Yesterday, on the radio, I heard that in Justice and Peace, they just said they wouldn't influence the electorate and the electorate, and they wouldn't advise on how to vote in the referendum, but they said they were against it. Let them go to confession at once, because this is the first of their sins as far as arbitration is concerned. I will vote in favour of the referendum and in the environment where I live, I see that there are a lot of those who know the border, living by the border, are for the referendum to succeed, and I am sure that this will not lose anything, but gain Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Brulc, if these appearances of your ministers, your fellow Members, and especially Mr Žbogar and Mr Pahor were indeed so convincing, indeed so unequivocal, then we would not need any arbitration agreement. Why, Mr Žbogar, did you not reach a conclusion with Croatia if they agreed with all of these in the arbitration agreement, and today we would have a border problem solved. If only it were what you say it is, but you know it's not. That way, I will make an interesting statement from a Croatian colleague, a friend, a Croatian citizen. When we discussed it 14 days ago, he told me the following. If the Croatian Members were not 100% confident that this arbitration agreement would not bring them what Croatia is asking of Slovenia at all times, they would never confirm it. And at the time, I was asking myself where this could have been assured. Today or those days ago, I read our arbitration agreement or the law that we adopted in our Parliament and the one that was adopted in Croatia. When I fully compared this matter, I found that unfortunately things differ significantly where the Croatian Members apparently had a sufficiently convincing assurance that what they were expecting or taking from Slovenia would also be ensured in this arbitration agreement. And where is this key purpose? Croatia wrote in Article 3 of this Act that I should read again: "The Republic of Croatia gives the following statement, which Croatia and Slovenia are party to on 27 October 2009" – Mr Žbogar, this is written in their current law – "collectively informed the Presidency of the Council of the EU and the United States". Nothing in the agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be regarded as Croatia's landing on Slovenia's request for territorial contact with the open sea. As agreed with the Slovenian side, the Republic of Croatia made such a declaration immediately after the signing of the arbitration agreement, but before the ratification of the arbitration agreement in the Republic of Croatia and of course Slovenia. Here is obviously the assurance that 129 members of the Croatian Parliament were convinced and only six voted against. I think this evidence is more than convincing. Apparently, the Slovenian Prime Minister, you're probably giving him support here, not telling the truth, or you're covering up an important fact. Covering up the facts can often be much more crucial to decision-making than some non-truth, as we can respond to the untruth, to concealing the facts that may appear in public in months or years, and unfortunately nothing will be done here in fact. There will be irreparable damage. Now I wonder why, if this was a public hearing in the Croatian Parliament, why is it not such a statement that we agreed together, Slovenia and Croatia, why did Sweden not respond, why did America not respond, why did you not respond? This was not a press conference of Minister Kosareva or Prime Minister Kosarjevo. This was the law - and none of it was! Since Mr President of the Government was a signatory in 1994 to the requirement that we have borders on the Mirna River, it is now surprising to me how he is now capitulating, everything we have ever had in Slovenia, we are now leaving Croatia. That's beyond doubt! And all those statements by Mr. Vlačič or those deceptions like that - they just don't! Mr Pavliha, an internationally recognised lawyer, is not a member of the SDS - and many of them are -, clearly states what and how it was here. And since you're telling us this is a pre-election or pre-referendum session. If that's what you think it is, I'm going to talk our constituents and voters into the next thought. It is not true that we, as signatories to this referendum, are now trying to take responsibility for the electorate and the electorate. We call on them that now is the historic opportunity to go to the referendum and reject this unwise, stupid and damaging move of the Slovenian government and you, the ruling coalition. So go, you have a historic opportunity, to a referendum and vote against. This will benefit your grandchildren and all future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. So today we were able to hear how good, desirable and how it is necessary to have an agreement with the neighbouring country. I agree with that. At the same time, however, I would add not by selling your own country. Oh, no. Such an agreement is neither good nor desirable nor necessary. But today's session is necessary because of new facts that we did not know in the opposition. If you knew them and said it was nothing new, then it's even sadder because you've been hiding things. It is also necessary to make it clear that you knew and that you have hidden the fact that Croatia has accepted an addition to the arbitration agreement, and this is now part of the arbitration agreement, which talks about it, with the knowledge of the Slovenian authorities, as they also wrote in this appendix, that nothing in the arbitration agreement between the two republics is considered to be the consent of Croatia to Slovenia's requests for territorial contact with the open sea. That's what it says, you knew it and you were hiding it. This is what is necessary to discuss, which is necessary because it is extremely dangerous and harmful for Slovenia – to give up contact with our territorial sea with the international. This means that in the end we really only have a service path. And dear colleagues, Mr Minister, what this looks like in practice, I would like to give you just one example. Some – among other things, one of our colleagues wanted to convince Slovenian fishermen not to fish more than half of the Bay of Piran. That was denied. More. The team of commercial television, Slovenian, wanted to be sure on the spot and went on a fishing boat with fishermen on the hunt and found that, of course, fishermen were fishing all over the Bay of Piran and never had any problems unless someone wanted an incident. Since this was presented, this colleague of ours - I will just call him Franco Juri - said on the same day in front of the camera that this is not true and that fishermen do not hunt in the entire Bay of Piran. He probably knows more where fishermen hunt than fishermen do! And the answer to that: The next day this team goes back to sea, there they meet a fishing inspector, and this one confirms that fishermen have always been fishing all over the Bay of Piran. And this man here today again explains to us that it is not true that he knows more where the fishermen are hunting than the fishermen themselves. Yeah, I'm sorry, but she probably didn't do something about it. And if advocates of the arbitration agreement in this way, with such arguments you convince us, all Slovenians that this arbitration agreement is good and what is the current situation, then something really doesn't count. Because who knows more where the fishermen are hunting than they do? And that's out of all the categories, and I can say, thank God, there's a television crew on the scene who's checked what's true and what's not true. Not only through newspapers and words, but the Slovenian government does not even hope to draw a map of what will happen under this agreement. I'm sorry. I've never seen him before. Now there is something else, and this is true for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr Minister, with all due respect, there is no dilemma here, but an hour ago you were giving us a lesson in how we must behave so that we do not harm the reputation of Slovenia. You gave some very strange comparison of what the Ascension was doing, and then if someone says it was happening, then we're muddling Slovenia. No, Mr. Secretary, it's not like that! I would like to remind you of the reputation of Slovenia. A few years ago, you were in Washington, when Slovenia chaired the European Union, there was this famous Washington dispatch when secret information on some agreements between countries came to the public. It was in your area, I'm not going to say that you put it in public, but there was a very big international scandal about it. And here's your responsibility. But I didn't say you did it. I didn't say that, but it's your responsibility. Even with your help, one way or another or indirectly, the matter has come to the public and a great international scandal has arisen. This has shed a very strange light on the reputation of Slovenia. And we can't play with that reputation. I say again, I didn't say you did it, but indirectly you were responsible for it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I mean, you weren't directly involved, but you were indirectly responsible. [[...]] Thank you very much. It is therefore necessary to reject this agreement because these facts that have come out today speak more than enough that an agreement that is harmful and dangerous to Slovenia should be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Chappich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Today, many words have already been said that advocate or oppose an arbitration agreement. Unfortunately, opponents of the agreement simply forget or deliberately deny certain facts that speak in favour of an arbitration agreement and establish normal relations between neighbouring countries. Arbitration is an emergency exit when two partners cannot agree on a matter bilaterally. The dispute over the border of Slovenia and Croatia has always been the point between neighbours, which has been used most often for internal political stories, especially before elections in one or another country. It used to look like it was a handy tool to pick up political points at the time of the elections. Let us remember all the incidents that took place at the border: either on one side or on the other, or with fishermen. Since its term of office, the border incidents have almost completely shifted, and this is extremely good for peace along the border. Today we are primarily talking about the silence of the work of the negotiating positions that the Slovenian government is supposed to have done. In particular, the Government or its President and the current Minister should remain silent that they have given their consent to a unilateral declaration at the time of the adoption of the ratification law of the Republic of Slovenia on an arbitration agreement. She didn't give anything! It's proven and confirmed. At the same time, they forget Article 3 of our Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement adopted by this National Assembly, and this has already been said in today's debate. In particular, it is important to point out to the opponents of the arbitration agreement that everything recorded by the Republic of Croatia in its public ratification law, the Republic of Slovenia denies and this is clearly stated in Article 3 of its law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement. And which of these is silenced? Nothing. If we were here at that time and read this law, we'd probably notice that, but not much time after that. Unfortunately, needlessly, because new facts are being searched for and found all the time. But there's a lot of talk from the opposition when they're looking for these new facts. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. For good economic and business contacts, mutual respect for policy is certainly important. Today, with the exception of Luke Koper, we have not yet talked about economic cooperation between countries. Croatia is an important economic partner of Slovenia. Whether we are theirs, I don't know, according to GDP and according to the exports they make in Slovenia, probably not as big as they are for us. Let us look at some figures that illustrate Croatia's position in Slovenian economic cooperation. According to Banka Slovenije, January 2010: total exports in 2008 amounted to EUR 20 billion. Imports were made in the amount of EUR 23 billion. And in 2009, due to the economic and financial crisis, in other countries, a good €16 billion in exports and a good €17 billion in imports. Croatia was third in 2008, with little than a billion EUR 700 of Slovenia's exports to Croatia and 6th in import with an import value of 835 million. About once we export more to Croatia than we import. And that was the ratio in 2009. So Slovenia has a large external trade surplus. All advocates, but also opponents of the arbitration agreement, must always take into account this economic cooperation, which is not insignificant for Croatia or Slovenia. I believe that this is the first problem for all of us who live at an undetermined border, but for all of us, it is also important when the border is resolved. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The participation of two neighbouring countries that will, whether we want to or not, for the permanent neighbours who will cooperate in one way or another, and it would be good for them to be neighbours who have resolved all the disputes that limit good-neighbourly relations - even though through the intervention of a third country [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Although I may have been skeptical from the outset until this agreement, I am certainly not anymore. Two reasons convinced me: I have read what the proposal says, and secondly, I am listening to the arguments of the opponents of this agreement. There are virtually no arguments, mainly about the loss of the sea, about the sale of the country, what was happening in Koroška. Around the Internet they send for example a sketch [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a unilateral decision by Slovenia showing how many seas we have, but we know that after 1990 the arbitration commission will not take into account, but will take into account point 3b which states: [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj, she's not here. Mr. Anderlich, there's not much time, but you have something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u116	Time is always enough if you know what you represent, and if you have very clear and noble goals. And in this case, it's just one thing. Today we have heard that this debate is intended primarily for those who did not want to decide on the agreement in Parliament and those who had four years to make the best agreement for the Republic of Slovenia, now so to speak, scaring people that the greatest disaster could happen and that only they should be given a new opportunity and everything will be different. That's not gonna happen. The time we're saving this is right. The agreement is a good basis for reaching an agreement with the Republic of Croatia and therefore these arguments must be rejected by the proposer of the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor. Yes, and then, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues. The President of the Government said in the introduction that he was taking responsibility for this arbitration agreement and that he had not been in this hearing room for more or less the whole day to answer and say anything about this responsibility. Whether it is an objective responsibility here or perhaps an subjective responsibility, if the consequences of this agreement are what no one is likely to want. I would like to say that today we have this meeting mainly as a result of the so-called silent diplomacy, when a lot has been going on in the drafting process, and only on the Slovenian side, beyond all those responsible for deciding on such acts. Half of the National Assembly was ignored, neither the President of the Government nor the Foreign Minister informed members of the National Assembly nor were the party presidents informed. This process was completely different from that of Croatia. Even in the National Assembly, when anything was required, we had a closed session, but if the meeting had already opened, we had a markedly restrictive discussion. This is said, with a solution that is not in the Rules of Procedure, a minute per Member. We even have two minutes to explain our vote, and only half of it is discussed here. And perhaps the problem is that the Government does not really want to openly disclose all matters relating to this arbitration agreement. The result is that we have a fragmented domestic policy. As a result, the Slovenian public has also been massacred. The accession of a more southern country was significantly different. There they were able to carry out the procedure through their congregation so that they could have a quality conversation, a quality coordination, and a proper majority of them. In any event, if this arbitration agreement at the referendum is to be confirmed, we will have to decide with two-thirds when, if not, we decide to amend the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has also announced. The problem is also that it has not yet been explained what it holds; or what was presented to us in the National Assembly and what is written in the Slovenian version of the arbitration agreement, or what was the basis for the adoption of the arbitration agreement in the Croatian Parliament. This was not adequately explained today by the President of the Government, even less so by the Foreign Minister. And that's where these problems come in. Was this agreement of the Slovenian government actually given that this arbitration agreement in the Croatian Parliament was then confirmed, or not? Has information actually occurred in the way it was written there, or has it not? Whether the Croatian government is lying or is lying to the Slovenian government, it is impossible to imagine that two such eminent countries as the United States of America and Sweden would overlook the negligence of one of the partners in this coalition agreement. That's impossible. It is impossible that in seven months none of these countries would have responded to the fact that none of these countries would have protested or warned the parties in the procedure that what was the basis of the arbitration agreement in Croatia was not the case. If we have two different versions of the text and the basis for admission in one and the other parliamentary body before us, it is said, in Slovenia and in Croatia, then perhaps we can no longer talk about the agreement, although fellow Members talk much about it. It is no longer possible to talk about the agreement because there is a second and not what the agreement is supposed to be. I think we should talk about whether those who represented the act in the Slovenian Parliament and those who represented it in the Croatian Parliament are sincere. It is said that one of these two political representatives, government representatives, does not speak the truth and is not honest with his parliamentary body, to his high house. Either the Slovenian government is not telling the truth and has agreed to publish it, or the Croatian government is not speaking. In any case, there is a very serious conflict here and that is why it is difficult to speak and we cannot agree that we have an agreement here. In particular, some matters are important. We have given a map on which we have drawn the existing situation and this is probably true because the Slovenian government has not denied it; neither has the Slovenian government, the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister and anyone who has not responded. It is said that this map, which is now in public for quite some time now, has been standing. We have also done a simulation of the future situation, which we can show where we see what the middle line means and on a third of the cut into Italian territorial waters, and we have two thirds of the way to get to the international sea, in the meantime it is possible only to map the corridor as a service path. Neither did these simulations of the future situation followed by the arbitration agreement, nor did the Government deny. And what is at all a problem is that, on the basis of an agreement, the Government has not prepared its own view or its assessment of what will be the future state of the arbitration agreement. Dear Minister, the map resulting from the arbitration agreement, with all the capacities you have at your Ministry, with all the external colleagues, advisors to international law, the Government could easily prepare and deal with these arguments in this area. Easy! And we would figure out what it means to set a border, so to speak, side pages and the intersection of the Slovenian border in the Gulf of Piran, and what it means to touch or contact the open sea. This could easily be drawn by the Government with all the capacities in the field of international law that are supporting you. This would be a credible fact, and only when the government did so when they could compare could they talk about how the government was actually capable of taking responsibility. Because if the government isn't able to draw a future state on a map, then there's a very big problem. Surely there are problems in other areas too, because if Slovenia had sovereign access to the open sea, that is to say territorial access to the open sea, it would not need anyone to arbitrate over that part, over that property in the sea, over that property in the sea, about what the ecological zones, fishing zones and other regimes can do in this area. Why? Each owner declares sovereign everything related to belts which can be declared in such an area. Only if someone has no territorial contact with the open sea, if he does not have his own way, not his connection to the main road, but in this case someone must do so or agree with a neighbour to allow him to use these matters. I guess I'll eventually have access to international waters with ships that will have up to two metres. This can happen in the end. And in a completely different way, it can interfere with our only seaport, which connects us to international waters or to the open sea, which allows for a lot of activity and good economic potential and development in this area. In short, much of the dilemma stems from this period following the unilateral adoption of the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly. For the way you have afforded it is no different. Unfortunately, only the coalition was the one that accepted the arbitration agreement means an extremely large fiasco for the one considered to be the great interlocutor of Slovenian politics. And as far as responsibility is concerned. If the government were actually going to take this responsibility, then the timeline wouldn't change. The timetable would then be such as to have the consequences of this arbitration in this mandate before Croatia enters the European Union and, if possible, within this mandate. In short, the government has done everything to prolong, to shift these consequences or the consequences of this decision far into the future, into future generations and into future policies. Those of you who have decided so vehemently this year on the arbitration agreement and have accepted it with such enthusiasm will not assume this responsibility. It would be necessary for this ruling policy to actually think a little bit about this debate, with these warnings, and perhaps it would be that you sometimes take a step back to allow for a somewhat more sober judgment, rather than doing everything in some euphoria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the government's representative, Foreign Minister? Mr. Samuel Zbogar, Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u120	I'll answer a few questions. Thank you very much, President. First of all, there were a few things here that needed an answer. First of all, with regard to the Vienna Convention on Zeroity as a result of fraud, as Mrs Irgle had previously quoted. I myself have previously quoted the Vienna Convention and have justified why it is not a matter of nullity in this agreement or, in this case, that what is said about the Vienna Convention does not refer to the example we have before us. A declaration which has been adopted, which is part of an agreement or law on the ratification of an agreement, is not part of an agreement. The agreement is what the Slovenian government has signed, the agreement is because the Slovenian government has coordinated with the Croatian government, and this is what is valid. This is the only thing the arbitrators will have before them and deal with. The declaration adopted in the ratification law in the Croatian Parliament is not part of an arbitration agreement and can be considered as part of a memorandum submitted by Croatia to the arbitral tribunal. Thus, by its argument, how it interprets the arbitration agreement, as we will explain, as we have explained in our unilateral statement. Mr Jerovšek said earlier that we did not inform about this unilateral statement. I would like to recall once again that on 3 November we had the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is after 27 October, where we notified the possibility of a unilateral statement by Croatia, and also the options we will do if a statement is made before the signature, at the time of signature, and that there will be no signature if the statement is later, we will make a unilateral statement. This is all contained in the report adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. The committee was fully informed of what we were talking about. But speaking of nullity and the Vienna Convention, I would just like to remind you that once we have made possible the nullity of the agreements – and I have mentioned earlier, in which cases there may be nullity, the agreement will be nullified even when the state is forced into some agreement with the threat. I think that maybe we can link this to one of the options that is to force Croatia into a bilateral agreement with the threat that otherwise we will not ratify its agreement with the European Union. Maybe I should just give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u121	Well, I'll give the word. The word is given by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Government and the political majority, who have taken a decision to support the arbitration agreement and to establish a border on land and sea between countries, have rejected the findings or doubts of those who oppose it. These doubts turned out to be unnecessary and unwarranted. We have before us an agreement ratified in both parliaments, which has never happened before, and it is only for Slovenian people to decide on it. This decision will, of course, have to be respected. I hope they make a "yes" decision. The referendum will be a decision for the future, for a fair border, for an orderly relationship between neighbours and in the region. Slovenia will be able to fully address its development challenges. It will preserve the reputation of a country that plays a single leader and role in the region. There is a possibility that people will reject this agreement. This decision will also have to be respected, and today from the opposition's colleagues, except my colleague Jelinčič, and I admit to him that he has been consistent in this regard for many years, he has advocated the position of the international conference on the division of borders that the opposition has not served with alternatives to what we should do if the agreement is refused. We will block Croatia immediately because the question of the predecessors will not be resolved; on 11 September, we will accept the statement sent by Prime Minister Kosorje as sufficient - it is a statement on Croatia's non-rejudication in the accession documents with the European Commission - as enough to end the negotiations, but will then be blocked in the accession treaty? We will renegotiate and with what mandate if this agreement for the Slovenian public is not good? These are all questions that we haven't received any answers to. And people have the opportunity to decide not only between the future, which means voting for the agreement, and the past, which means going back to the incidents and going back to the irregular situation, but they have the opportunity to vote to know what the consequences will be if the arbitration agreement is adopted so far as the border is concerned, as we know it will be, but also as regards relations in the region and in particular between the countries. The question of what we will do at home and what we will do with the mandate regarding Croatia and its negotiations with the European Commission will remain entirely open. Finally, our interest is that on all four sides we are surrounded by neighbours who are in the same club, the Euro-Atlantic Club, to share with them the same rules of responsibility and also rights and duties. I didn't hear that answer. It is my great pleasure that the government or their representations, the United States and the Kingdom of Sweden, have felt so much responsibility that they have come forward in view of the claims that Slovenia and Croatia have jointly made a statement or an understanding of a unilateral statement. This was rejected by both sides as witnesses. This argument is therefore null and void. I now understand that the argument against the agreement has turned to the head and the opposition believes that the agreement is null and void because the negotiation or adoption of legislation on the other side of the border has yet to be determined, at least at sea, in bad faith. That's not true. As the main negotiator, I am obliged to say that Prime Minister Kosorje and I have led negotiations in good faith, in the desire to find a mutual solution: Slovenians have their interest that before Croatia's entry into the European Union we will find a way to establish a fair border and thus the possibilities for lasting peace and security and cooperation, while Croatia continues and a successful end of negotiations with the European Union. The negotiations were difficult, they were excruciating, but they were led with great honesty and were often dependent solely on the trust between Prime Minister Kosor and me. None of my statements by the end of the referendum campaign will attempt in any way to hurt the desire that with all the leaders of the countries, including the leader of the neighbouring country, the government of the neighbouring country, – in any way lose the credibility or credibility of his words. I would like the Slovenian public to understand the value of this document that we have before us. It will be difficult to reach a different, better agreement in a short time. The international public, who now clearly sees this with great hope, has, last but not least, welcomed the decision made by the Vatican for this agreement, looking confidently at the resolution of this dispute on a peaceful path. In this way, we can probably expect an agreement to be rejected that Slovenia will be in a rather lonely position when it wants to force another agreement in order to achieve its interests prior to Croatia's entry into the European Union. Once again, we have a precious opportunity. I have no doubt about the legitimacy of doubts, questions or even objections against them. I believe that we are not competing in patriotism here, but in assessing what is possible and what is useful. As one of you, in this case most responsible, I feel it is my duty to say that this is according to my experience - for 20 years in one way or another, I am involved in the resolution and exacerbation of relations with Croatia - this agreement which could be accepted by both nations as a reasonable solution to border disputes, so that we can live at this border even when Croatia's entry into the European Union makes this less important and will be determined. And with this, Slovenia will round up the self-reliance project, because practically with all attributes our statehood will be determined. Let's not miss this opportunity. Let's decide the future, let's leave the past behind, because it didn't bring us much good, and we could.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proponents? Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble as a proposalr, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, a few facts about the arbitration agreement. This agreement, which should be called an arbitration agreement, provides that the establishment of the land and sea borders between Slovenia and Croatia will be adopted by an international arbitration tribunal. The Agreement provides for the object and method of decision-making of arbitrators. The decision-making area is the maritime border and the land border. The Tribunal may decide on the entire border, taking into account the basic rule that it shall judge on the basis of international law. At the same time, the Tribunal must decide on the contact of the Slovenian territory with the open sea and the regime in the area, while also taking into account the principle of fairness, proportionality and good neighbourly relations. That's all it says about it. It means that Slovenia must show all the facts and arguments that correspond to the required criterion of international law. This criterion is clearly not in line with the Republic border, municipal borders, administrative areas, statistical data, self-government arrangements, police surveillance areas, commercial practices and procedures, which is the full white book of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2006. They shall also have no meaning and effect of the agreements which have been concluded unilaterally with regard to point 5. After 25 June 1991, no unilateral act at all, this also applies to agreements concluded or adopted by the Government of Demos in relation to the neighbouring Yugoslav Republic of Croatia. Since Croatia was not then subject to international law, such acts are of no importance anyway. The arbitration agreement also provides, inter alia, that the arbitrators of the international arbitral tribunal, subject to international law, will first establish a border line between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia and will then determine the contact of Slovenian territorial waters with international waters. Arbitrators will not decide on a territorial exit, but simply on contact. The agreement does not give us direct territorial access to international waters or gives us any assurance that we will maintain territorial contact with international waters upon the decision of the arbitrators. The decision will depend to the greatest extent on the negotiating capabilities of both countries, and perhaps even more on what is happening in the backstage. And history teaches us that Croatia is always more successful in this business than the Slovenians. Let us not forget, however, that at the time of the signing of the arbitration agreement Croatia has adopted a special declaration stating that nothing in the arbitration agreement between the Slovenian Government and the Croatian Government will be considered to be the landing of Croatia at the request of Slovenia after territorial contact with the open sea. The decision of the International Court of Arbitration will be final or binding on both countries and will also have to be taken within 6 months of the decision. In no way do we agree in the SNS that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia negotiates territories that indisputably belong to the Republic of Slovenia and have been occupied by Croatia over the years following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. We do not oppose Croatia entering the EU, but not at the price of Slovenian territory and sea. Slovenia has gained 25. 6. In 1991, it declared and exercised state sovereignty and thus became subject to international law. After the declaration of independence, Slovenian politicians of a quiet soul talked and negotiated and adopted under the constitutional title of a key undertaking with Croatia, although on the other side of the table there was a private company of a certain Tudjman, since Croatia was a part of Yugoslavia until 8 October 1991, when it declared and established its independence. Croatia gained its independence more than three months later than Slovenia, and during these three months until independence, it participated in an attack by Yugoslav People's Army units on Slovenia. It is interesting why Croatia did not exercise its sovereignty at the same time as Slovenia. Somehow she secretly and shyly accepted a poorly copied copy of the Slovenian declaration and then hid it all in the drawer. Tudjman knew that if Zagreb declared independence and then fulfilled the agreement and did not interfere, so let the Yugoslav People's Army out of its territory into sovereign Slovenia, he is an automatic aggressor. Croatia could not avoid the consequences, would be an aggressor and would be responsible for its actions. This did not fit Croatia in any way. However, they did not expect a British moratorium to take place, and this took place in the state of the Yugoslav Republic and Slovenia in the status of the subject of international law. The salami of a special kind is, of course, that the Slovenian statesmen of these facts did not know whether they wanted to or should have noticed. Therefore, Zagreb managed to advance the moratorium months without any damage. Thus the documents accepted remained invalid, non-existent - but again the Slovenians did not notice this. They preferred to complain about the Bay of Piran, and neighbors for the money of Slovenian taxpayers were building illegal embankments in Mura. Our country's officials and experts have not seen this today, and, of course, they are not even trying to understand that no agreement is in such a defective, illegal and illegal way, and at this level nothing is good, nor does it exist. So much less, since no such document has been ratified since the establishment of the normal state – that is, when the relevant entity has appeared on the other side of the table – is subsequently ratified as is appropriate and is customary. Therefore, all agreements between Slovenia and Croatia are not valid because they have been signed by a non-existent country. Status on day 25. 6. 1991 is yet to be determined. Actual state of law relevant at the date of 25. 6. is that on the Slovenian side of the border the State of the Republic of Slovenia was unspecified and, for the purposes of international recognition, declared by unilateral documents of the border was SFRJ. So, on day 25. 6. There was no Croatian state on that side of the border in 1991. However, the arbitration tribunal should not be after 8 October 1991, when Zagreb unilaterally declared independence under Article 5 of the arbitration agreement. The agreement itself clearly and definitively excludes the Republic of Croatia as a participant in the arbitration procedure, as it excludes any unilateral act or document after 25. 6. 1991. This also raises questions about the legality of Croatia's participation in the arbitration procedure. In the exercise of sovereignty and jurisdiction, the criterion of "uterine posidetis" should apply. The literal meaning of the principle of "outie possidetis" is that what someone had in possession of, the jurisdiction, it remains in possession. In international law, this principle means that the new countries will become independent of the same borders as they had when administrative units were still within the territory of colonial authorities. In international law, the application of this principle constitutes a legalized possession of a de facto proprietor. Thus, the newly created State, which, at the time of its creation, exercises its sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction in a particular area, continues to exercise its sovereignty in the same area, in accordance with international law. However, it should be pointed out here that what anyone has done on one side or the other of an indefinite limit on the day 25. 6., this was Croatia, it was doing it on behalf of the SFRJ and not on its own, given that Croatia had only become independent 8. Ten. 1991. At first glance, the decision of the arbitrators may also have a bearing on Badinteri's arbitral decision that the inter-ministerial border should become an inter-State border. Badinteri's decision, which is so honored and admired by the Slovenian profession, would have been valid if they had stayed on both sides of the Republic's borders. There was only Slovenia and on the other hand SFRJ, only part of which was still the Socialist Republic of Croatia. Among other things, Badinteri’s arbitral decision also has at least two beautiful mistakes. The Helsinki Charter refers to the invariability of interstate borders in Europe and sets out the procedures necessary for possible changes. In the Slovenian-Croatian case, none of this was respected. To talk about the Republic border within a single common country, when the Republic – the geographical concept is one, but to talk about the Republic border when it comes to the border between two state entities, is another. Within a single common country, administrative exchanges are arbitrary and have no other effects other than administrative ones. However, when inter-Republical delimitation is to become inter-State, all other components are to be found: territorial integrity, historical heritage, the will of the population and so on. It is evident, therefore, that Badinteri's decision does not automatically imply an interstate line-by-line delimitation between two local administrations within Yugoslavia. So much more certain, if there is and there is a thousand-year interstate border on the river, the plans of the River-Kotorib, which even the invaders respected during World War II and did not allow their Nazi Ustarian allies to reach the Independent State of Croatia with their authority across this border. Therefore, during the war its armed gangs, Croats, fell across the border and killed the Slovenian population. For example, the mass murder of all men in Mountain, Gorjanci, that we do not talk about killings in Croatian concentration camps and even postwar seas in Istria and between Drava and Mura. This must be said that it will not be forgotten that the Slovenians sealed the Slovenianness of the matter in those places with blood. Therefore, even Badinteri's arbitral decision does not comply with the criterion set out in point 4/1/A, as far as it interferes with the actual interstate border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. The agreement also provides, inter alia, that the arbitrators of the International Arbitration Court, subject to international law, will first establish a border line between Slovenia and Croatia and then determine the contact of Slovenian territorial waters with international waters. Arbitrators will not decide on a territorial exit, but simply on contact. The agreement does not give us direct territorial access to international waters or gives us any assurance that we will maintain territorial contact with international waters upon the decision of the arbitrators. The decision will depend to the greatest extent on the negotiating capabilities of one country and another, and even more so on the backstage developments. As I said before, history teaches us that Croatia in this business is always more successful than the Slovenians. The agreement is very bad for Slovenia, since, like the independent and sovereign countries, it also takes up the right to use the already officially declared sovereign belts in the northern Adriatic and prevents us from accessing international waters both in the Adriatic and in the Mediterranean. As a result, Slovenia is threatened with losing its status as a maritime state and is threatened by our sovereignty at sea. This, however, threatens the Slovenian national interest. As a result of this, economic cooperation is prevented, resulting in the closure of the port of Koper and the collapse of the coastal economy and the deterioration of the entire Slovenian economy. If an arbitration agreement had been adopted, we would have been allowed, at the best of times, to go through Croatian territorial waters to international waters. We have too often witnessed the dilettarianism and inequities of our legal experts and consequently politicians who say that Slovenians have our country for the first time in history. Such statements are a result of ignorance and are very harmful for today's country, one might say: criminal. We Slovenians have had our country from time to time and continuously, from the Quarantine, which is hidden in old records and today stands proudly in Koroška, via dukedoms and landscapes, the hereditary countries of the Habsburg dynasty to today's republic. The state of the Slovenian countries of the Habsburg Dynasty is the subject of facts. Slovenia entered the former common country, first in the Kingdom of SHS and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in 1918 with Slovenian Crohnian countries which had the status of countries under the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. So the whole of Istria was ours within Primorska as well as the islands of Cres, Krk and Losinj. In Medmurje, the whole part was above the left bank of Drava Slovenia and also the town of Čakovec. The Istria was part of the Slovenian country until 1920, when the Rapal Agreement was concluded, and the territory on the left bank of Drava together with the Čakovec was Slovenian until 1929, when the internal division of Yugoslavia changed and bananas were created. The only argument that has all the elements of an interstate character is the interstate line between the Slovenian countries that entered the SHS on 1 December 1918 and the province so far within the Kingdom of Zagreb, Croatia. This limit is a thousand years and more of a direct and indisputable international legal fact with all attributes, precisely defined and marked on the ground. In 1918, with the entry of Slovenian countries into Yugoslavia _– after Trianon, they were joined by Prekmurje do Drava, until then part of the Hungarian Republic _– this border remained intact but outside the function. During the occupation of World War II, there was once again a valid border between NDH and the occupied Slovenian countries: Prekmurje with Medmur, Styria, Kranjska and Primorska do River. The latter was returned in the framework of Primorska under Venetia Giulio. Even after World War II, this border was not altered by any international legal act and thus remained intact until the collapse of the country, which was created by the merger of Slovenian countries and other provinces. Catastrophe, but quite in line with the customs and conduct of Slovenian quasi-politicians and pseudo-staters, the fact that none of the authorised in the Slovenian Government has simply seen this, is a very important fact that has not fallen into the eyes. It is not possible to awaken the multitude of fallen and killed, it is not possible to undo the boundless damage and replace lost existences, but before the tribunal we can put here a simple but definitive and only truth that must be taken into account; only this truth, because none of what the Croatian side will put before it, has the international characteristics required by point 4/1/A. It may not be far from the truth that point 4/1/B, in addition to international law, provides for the consideration of justice, proportionality and good neighbourliness, in particular in order for the pre-potential neighbours who imagine that everything they detract from is automatically theirs, would not suffer a stroke when the tribunal declares its final and binding decision. Only the international peace conference on Yugoslavia, at which Slovenia should base its request on the nationality of Slovenian Crohnian countries, Koroška, Stajerska, Slovenian landscapes, namely Pomurje, Kranjska and Primorska, could ensure respect for the true, uncontaminated historical facts. The principle of justice can only be ensured by the international community at an international peace conference, where the Adriatic Sea must also be discussed, which has never been Croatia. Even during World War II, neither Italians nor Germans gave it to them, even though they were joint Nazi allies. Certain bribed circles in the European Union support the arbitration agreement only because of inter-war criminal alliances or because of their own benefit; as our government policy and so-called experts show. Also in the proposal for an agreement, there is no longer a time limit within which the arbitrators must decide on the border. From the primary one-year deadline, Croatia has chosen a reasonable time limit that each side can interpret in its own way. Undoubtedly, this deadline will be extended far into the future after Croatia's entry into the EU, should this decision ever occur. It is, however, the fact that the arbitration agreement stipulates that the International Court of Arbitration will start by deciding only after Croatia has signed an accession treaty with the EU, when all EU members agree to its entry into the EU and no one else will be able to do so – that is, after Croatia's entry into the EU. The so-called arbitration agreement presented is written only for the benefit of Croatia. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also been involved in the drafting of this Agreement in favour of Croatia since its inception, which has agreed to the pressures of the European Union’s masters, even more so from America, who have been blackmailing our policies. What they've done is history. While those involved in the preparation and signing of this Agreement seem to already know how the arbitration tribunal will decide, they only disclose with their views that they do not know what arbitration is or what the agreement says, since they have never shown a willingness to fill the points of the arbitration agreement with a content that corresponds to the facts and interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed an arbitration agreement without harmonising and consulting Slovenian legal experts and without taking into account the opposition's views and observations. However, the Coalition in the National Assembly has achieved that the agreement has only been ratified by a simple majority of the votes of all Members. The approval of the arbitration agreement at the referendum means the end and the collapse of Slovenia's independent and sovereign republic or country. All the victims of the Slovenian nation in history — all the blood spilled for the country — will be released. The fact is that in the last century alone, Slovenians have lost almost half of their national territory. In 1920, Slovenia lost Koroška, and after World War II Trst and Gorica, the border between Slovenia and Italy was determined by leaving more than 120,000 Slovenians in Italy. At the same time, Croatia also received a large part of Istria, which has never been its own in history. It is interesting that since 2009, all Croatian courts have unduly rejected the entry of ownership rights into land and facilities, i.e. the property of the Republic of Slovenia in Croatia. Their argument is that it is only an unresolved hereditary issue. I think it would be good if this was also highlighted in these agreements. Slovenia has kneeled in front of Croatia and is not interested in the interests of property and the protection of Slovenian interests and Slovenian property. As I am aware, there are more than 100 buildings owned by the Republic of Slovenia in Croatia, as well as Slovenian state companies in Croatia cannot register property: Slovenian Development Company, Health Insurance Institute, Health Care Institute, Public Services, DSU, Slovenian Railways, Holiday Community Krško, Telekom and so on. Everyone's not allowed to enter property. It's terrible damage. Will we now be allowed to take away the sea and access to international waters? By the way, this important fact must also be said. Territorial access is also the only way to ensure the sovereign right to fly planes across the Slovenian territorial sea without restrictions on international airspace. It is therefore not only the use of waterways and seabeds, but also the airspace over them. Slovenian citizens and citizens must not allow the fate of our country, all of us are decided by people acting in accordance with the instructions of some large countries and associations, because they are lobbying for Croatia because of their own interests, so it is the duty of all conscious Slovenes and Slovenes to vote against the agreement and thus save and preserve their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. As a proponent, please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. But today we have experienced for the first time that someone from the coalition has also drawn what he thinks on a piece of paper, that what he was talking about has also been drawn on a map. In fact, today we have been discussing for several hours, talking a lot about solutions, about our views, many even — if we should not do so to pour it on a sheet of paper and to people who are separated by the complexity of things — have shown in a more plastic way what this is really about. Interestingly, the slides were "very fast to fly", as it is called, there is not much difference between the maps shown on this side and the maps shown on the other side. Anyway, we're going to divide the Bay of Piran into a midline that's likely to be tilted against the Sauvardian peninsula. This was also painted on those slides. But something has to be confessed. This borderline under international law cannot be turned against international waters, it cannot be reversed. Also in the light of Article 3 of the Convention, which states that the maximum permissible width is 12 nautical miles. To point T5, to the international waters, as far as I know, this distance is longer, larger. So in my first performance, I mentioned that the only solution was the corridor. The corridors were also drawn on the slides shown by the opposition. So the only solution to getting to international waters is the corridor. But it must be said that this corridor will not be Slovenian property, this corridor will not be Slovenian territorial water because we set the border solely by the principles and rules of international law. I told you what the odds are for this corridor. There are many: it can be in joint management, it can have open sea status, it can be a separate exercise of sovereignty in this corridor and we can have two types of service, a harmless transition or a transit regime. There's no other way. I'm gonna open up another matter. Today practically there was no talk about Hotize's problem. It's 800 hectares of land, 90% owned by Prekmurk and Prekmurk. For your information, we are talking 113 hectares on the Slovenian coast of Dragonji. Here's the 800-acre question. The Catastrophe border reaches G1/3. If you are going to fly off the road in Hotiza on the bend with your car, you will fly to Croatia, there is a cadastral border, on the G1/3 highway. And 90% of these lands are owned by Prekmurk and Prekmurk. The question of smell is asked. What about the hamlet where Slovenians and Slovenians live, which is on the Croatian cadastral? And if, I don't mind, it's one of the basic principles of international law – and I stress, the border, the flow of borders will be determined solely by the rules and principles of international law – and the basic or key principle in establishing the border on land is the cadastra. And at the border, unfortunately, we have no justice in this arbitration agreement, no good-neighbourliness, no good-neighbourly relations; in short, nothing. Just international law. So, from this point of view, I will not say that we will, but that we will probably lose these 800 hectares of virtually all Slovenian land. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the proponent, Janez Janša? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u128	Thanks again for saying that. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not here again. He may even occasionally stop by and repeat what he said in the morning, ask questions that he had already answered several times, and of course he did not hear or have not been answered. I think this is how this hall turns into a mill, where it has to be told many times, and no one hears. Half an hour ago, the Prime Minister kept asking questions from this morning, and we answered them in the middle, as if no one had said anything. Now we wanted to give him written answers, but he's gone. I hope that he will not say on TV again tomorrow that there is no alternative to this agreement and that no one has presented it, then it will limit it to a particular state. We expected the President of the Government not to ask questions, but to answer the questions that led to this meeting being convened and not answered. And we haven't heard these answers in the morning or now. And I'll do it again. So, we ask the President of the Government, publicly and for the tenth time, once again: When did the President of the Croatian Government promise Slovenia territorial contact with international waters? In what form, in writing or orally? Is there any proof of that? Is there a witness for that? The President of the Government cannot give any information on such serious matters on television, and the neighbouring state denies it, and then he has no answer. It would be fair for Slovenian citizens and citizens to receive these answers before voting at the referendum on 6 June. But if there are no such answers, let it be said honestly. The government has another half hour, and I ask you very honestly once again for the answers to these questions. Dear Mr. President Borut Pahor: When did Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor promise you a territorial contact or territorial exit of Slovenia into international waters, as you publicly stated on television, and then on a specific issue once again confirmed? That's not in the government's written response. There are no answers to these statements following from the Slovenian Foreign Ministry. Croatia denied it and put you on a lie. If these relations you have established are so sincere and so kind, so well-intentioned, then it will probably not be difficult to say this together to the Slovenian and Croatian public, unless you have deceived one or the other; in this case it is a fraud, and it is a very important matter. We also ask: Why, after this ratification law has been passed in the Croatian Parliament, which states that with the Croatian view that this agreement does not, in any case, guarantee or allow for territorial contact with international waters, that the European Union or its Presidency and the United States of America have been informed of this Croatian position together. And today these diplomatic representatives of both countries have denied it. So: I wonder what the Slovenian government will do now? And above all, why did the Slovenian Government not react last November when this law was passed? The interesting question is also why the Swedish government or the American government did not react at the time, since all embassies there knew what was written in this law. If it wasn't true or if there wasn't some kind of trade in the back, we'd deny it right away. No one can quote the position of the United States if the matter is not correct. No one can get the United States government involved in some bilateral story if that's not true. The Croatian Prime Minister is visiting the White House today, and we will see if there is any protest. If so, then we will believe that there is nothing in the back and that Croatia has lied in the law, which, of course, tells everything about the partner with whom you signed the arbitration agreement. However, if there is no such protest, then we will consider that the statement made by the US Embassy in Ljubljana is a statement for the Slovenian public, helping the Slovenian government to bring through an agreement which, because of the various interests of some countries in the Western Balkans, is, of course, something for them that is the realization of these interests. Whether or not Slovenian interests are taken into account. So we cannot directly ask the American and Swedish governments, but we can ask the well-known minister, because our Prime Minister is not here, why you did not react in any way to the admission of the Croatian Parliament by this statement, which directly involves Slovenian consent to informing them of their statement last November. We have an embassy in Zagreb that may have notified you. It would be difficult to say that you did not know that Croatia not only accepted this statement, which would have been unilateral if it had been, as you said, but that it had written down that the Slovenian and Croatian governments had shared this statement with the witnesses of this agreement. So: Why did you not react in November but now after many months? I also ask the Minister: Who does he trust? Does the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament refer to the partner country in this agreement or to the other party in this agreement or to the statements made by the Swedish Presidency? They're both wrong, and whoever they trust, there's a problem on one side. This is a complete contradiction in an important matter, and it does not claim that this will have any effect on arbitration. If Croatia adds this law, the material that it will send to the arbitral tribunal will be dealt with and read by the court as it does in the law, not as the Swedish Minister states in her statement, because no one will know. This is only for the Slovenian public 10 days before the referendum. Mr Vlačič said something earlier because it would be worth remembering. He said that the contact of Slovenia with international waters could, of course, only be territorial. However, the President of the Government had already said, and despite my quotation from the original document, he had not previously replied that this same formulation was also used in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. I hope that they have divided this agreement for you at this time and that you can see for yourself what the Drnovšek-Račan agreement says. There you will not find any form of contact such as in this arbitration agreement that you have signed. There are consistently two cities talking about the territorial exit of Slovenia into international waters. This statement by the President of the Government this morning was unrealistic, not for the first time, it was repeated several times during the referendum campaign. There's evidence here today that she's not real, but the Prime Minister is simply ignoring her. I think I should apologize to the Slovenian public for being misled at a point that is very important. That what Mr Vlačič said about territorial contact does not stem from what is already enshrined in the Croatian law on ratification, because Croatia interprets this contact with international waters completely differently or 180 degrees differently. Mr Vlačič says that this contact can only be territorial and the Croatian law states that anything can be done except that it is territorial. Therefore, it does not claim to be just one solution, and this is confirmed by the practice of international law. Finally, in 2007, Mr Vlačič wrote something that denies his statement today. Mr Vlačič, in his study for the Foreign Ministry in early August 2007, explicitly stated that the establishment of the border under international law in Slovenia could not bring territorial contact with international waters. Then I'll quote. Moreover, he wrote that even if the principle of "equity" is applied to the principles of international law, as you have now stated in the agreement, the border line between Slovenia and Croatia cannot end in international waters, but it can only be some shift. The exact quote reads as follows: "The fact is that the practice of international courts in resolving similar disputes does not favour us solely on the basis of international law, as it favours the application of the central line principle. The application of the principle of justice within the law, equality, may lead to an even greater departure from the central line of one or another country.".. It is said that this line would get a little closer either to the Slovenian coast or to Savudrija, which Croatia considers to be its own, but would still not end in territorial waters in this case. And, of course, by setting limits, this agreement provides for exclusively international law. In addition to international law, the "equty" is also defined to determine the contact, the possibility is to draw slightly closer to one or the other coast, not to end up in international waters. Since Mr Vlačič wrote this opinion in 2007, international law has changed nothing; it is exactly the same; only Mr Vlačič has changed his opinion or adapted it to political circumstances. At this point, it is also worth underlining what Comrade Jelinčič said earlier. The territorial exit of Slovenia into international waters is not only due to the sea. It is also important because of the exit to international airspace, because only if Slovenia has a territorial exit into international waters is the airspace above these territorial waters of our territory, our property and only there can aircraft from Slovenian airspace come into international airspace without going through any other country's airspace. We must not forget this because it is also an important part of sovereignty and, of course, has practical implications. Something else about justice, history and international law. That was a lot of talk today. In order to really understand why the principle of justice outside international law in our case is so important, some historical facts. I have here a copy of the material prepared for the Paris Peace Conference. I think 15 copies have been made, and they're mostly rolling around in different antiques. This is a material collected by the National Liberation Committee for the Julian Region with Istria. This material contains a series of extremely important maps and data that are also relevant for today’s use. In this building, for example, you have a map of the Julian landscape with Istria from 1921, which accurately divides nationality, not only according to national borders, but also according to the internal borders. And here you can also see the inner border, which then became a cadastral border and goes halfway through the Savudrian peninsula. Here is also a map showing the settlement of the Slovenians, here says from the 7th and 8th centuries that it is also quite clear where the national or national border is, when it comes to Savudrija, the Piran Bay and Istria. Just for comparison, which does not have a direct connection to the delimitation with Croatia, but in a broader context, this is, this is the national composition in Trieste, in the districts or in the streets. For each congregation in Trieste, for each district is written exactly how many Slovenians, Italians, Croats and others there are and also in Trieste. This is information for 1910, here you can see that Trieste with a narrower surroundings was mostly Slovenia. This material also accurately describes the ownership structure of the land and the major properties in the Julian landscape and Istria, and in point 15, it says: "Istrian land is almost all in Slovenian hands." And then it's worked out in 15 isolation congregations. This material also contains precise figures on the population in the Julian landscape and Istria. And these figures are for administrative districts: Gorica — 157 thousand 81 Slovenes, Trbiz — 3 thousand Slovenians, Venice Slovenia — 36 thousand 178 Slovenes, Trieste — 62 thousand Slovenes, Istria — 55 thousand 522 Slovenians, River — 4 thousand 535 Slovenians. Where are these Slovenians today who lived in Istria at the time? This material did not help Slovenians much, Yugoslavia is something because the border after the Second World War between Yugoslavia and Italy was drawn by the mathematical formula, at least so they said, by the formula that the border is drawn so that so many Italians will remain in Yugoslavia as Yugoslavs in Italy. And that's about how the border was drawn. And after such a demarcating, of course, there were 135 thousand Yugoslavs in Italy, all of whom were Slovenians. Beneška Slovenija, Trieste, Gorica with backs, this is all that is left in Italy. In Yugoslavia, there were about so many Italians, who then moved out or were mostly expelled, very few left. And that's also important to see how the internal division went. Earlier it must be said that at this external division, on account of what Slovenia left in Italy, Croatia received back Dalmatia, islands, River and the whole Istria, which was never fully Croatia in history; and after the Italians had moved out of the coastal cities, their property and everything else. Then there was an attempt at internal administrative division between the new republics in the current Yugoslavia. And as if this damage to the external delimitation would not be enough, there has also been a very strange setting of this administrative boundary. There are stories of how the border stood at Strig's, how then the secret political police killed people who did not agree with the demarcating and wanted to be under Slovenia, and then there was an unusual decision, which part of the Saudi peninsula, which was always inhabited by Slovenians and parts of Slovenian cadastral municipalities, suddenly surrendered to Croatia. There are conclusions of the war bodies that have done so; as if this external injury would not be large enough and as if Slovenia would not pay enough tax in doing so. They say that this border between Slovenia and Croatia was discussed by Kardelj and Bakarić at a lunch and that Kardelj replaced Mirna for Draganja. I don't even believe it. However, I believe that the Slovenian policy at the time did not take into account the real facts and that they spoke roughly as some of our colleagues have today expressed themselves on the border, on the European Union and on how the border in Europe means nothing. Even then, the then ruling Slovenian single-party policy claimed that this interior was not important, that Yugoslavia would be eternal, whether certain things were being done in Croatian or Slovenian municipalities; and accordingly they acted. Well, Yugoslavia wasn't forever, it was falling apart, and it has to be learned. Borders are extremely important, borders are also important in the European Union. I said this morning that the Netherlands and Belgium are still addressing the border issue from a point where the land border is supposed to blend with the sea and have not yet agreed, but have been in the European Union for 50 years or more and are one of six founding members. Well, the border is of course important. Yugoslavia is falling apart. And at the end of Yugoslavia, two new countries, Slovenia and Croatia, were created, first. And this fact is not something that would have nothing to do with this distinction between Italy and Yugoslavia after World War II. It would be more than unfair for Slovenia to be deprived for the third time. First in determining the external border of Yugoslavia-Italy after World War II, then in determining the administrative boundaries within the then Yugoslavia and now, for the third time, in demarcating Slovenia and Croatia after independence. This would be a historical absurdity, which, if this arbitration agreement went through a referendum, would be compared to the Kori plebiscite. It is not true that today we do not know where the limit is; of course, it is not true that we do not know where the border was at the time of independence. We've heard some debaters say that the map on our flyers is just so drawn. That's not true. This is an official map of the Geodetic Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and this is exactly the picture that is also on our flyers. This is an official map for the official bodies of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the situation today, according to the Basic Constitutional Charter, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and by legislation adopted by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of independence. All that will come from this arbitration agreement, if ratified, and will be less than what is on this map today, is a huge defeat for Slovenia. And of course it is necessary to be aware of this, especially because there is no need for Slovenia to rush into something that does not guarantee it to retain the rights it had at the time of its independence. Croatia today has more than 5,000 400 kilometres of coastline, half of the coast has received it after World War II – when Slovenia lost very much. Half of the coastline was won by Croatia after World War II. In Slovenia there are jumbo posters on which tourist agencies are invited to the Croatian sea. These posters show that Croatia has 1244 islands. So it has a lot of this wealth, which it did not get without someone else paying something; and this price was paid by Slovenia. I have explained this situation to many interlocutors when I was still Prime Minister, colleagues of the European governments, even more broadly, and when they heard this, they all understood why Slovenia insists on applying the principle of external justice outside international law in determining it. No! No! Because this is damage to Slovenia and this Croatian acquisition – this did not happen 1,000 years ago, this did not happen 500 years ago, this happened in the life of a generation that is still alive today and cannot be separated. And this right can be maintained by Slovenia without Croatia being harmed in any way. Croatia has 6 large ports, by recognising Slovenia's borders, as it had at the time of its independence, no Croatian port will be closed, no port in internal waters will become a competitive problem here. 62 of these Croatian islands are large and populated. None of these islands loses Croatia, no residents loses, nothing loses. It's just a couple of miles of sea that's questionable. Croatia has this sea as much as you want. There is no risk for Croatia in this so-called dispute. Croatia doesn't lose anything here, it doesn't lose anything. Slovenia, however, can lose an essential part of its sovereignty, an essential element of its sovereignty. This is why this issue is so important. I am very sorry that this awareness in Slovenia in circles where their knowledge or expected knowledge should be the most present is not. This morning, there was some controversy about what the term geographically disadvantaged country is, which appears in the President of the country's textbook, and how this affects the current situation. We've heard some pretty unfortunate attempts at apology. There is an official document in the constitution of the National Assembly, which leaves no doubt at all, and this official document is summarized from the point of view prepared by the Department of International Law of the University of Ljubljana, which is now intended to be the main support or main verification of the competence of the arbitration agreement. This is the material that was prepared when the proposal for a maritime code was prepared. In the material, dated 25 May 2000, but also in previous versions of the maritime code, these masters of international law wrote the following: "The law follows from the fact that the Republic of Slovenia, according to its geographical position, has the so-called geographically disadvantaged state, that is, a country without its own epicontinental belt or sovereign rights on this belt and that, according to its position, the Republic of Slovenia does not have the opportunity to declare other sea zones outside its territory of national sovereignty in the open sea", which is surrounded by "external sea belt, exclusive economic zone". So it's not about the fish, and it's not about the lengths of the coast, as some of you have tried to justify the president of the country who wrote something similar in his textbook. It is that this so-called profession from Ljubljana University, the Department of International Law of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, says that Slovenia does not have the right to declare sovereign belts at sea, so there is no territorial exit into international waters. The President of the State wrote such an opinion in his textbook in 2007, despite the fact that two years earlier Slovenia had declared these rights by law. Slovenia declared the Epicontinent Belt by law adopted in October 2005. And what the student writes is contrary to still applicable Slovenian legislation. Here is the very obvious contradiction and professional verification of those who do not believe themselves and who have written their textbooks that Slovenia does not have these rights, does not comfort me. If an arbitration agreement is adopted and if one of you negotiates or writes a memorandum or tries to clear with the Croatian side any matters relating to this arbitration agreement, this quotation will be heard many times because it will be used by the Croatian party. And he's already done it! When we negotiated with them, they quoted us as saying so. So, don't believe it. Do not believe as those who wrote themselves that we do not have the right to a territorial exit to the open sea, which now ensures that this agreement will give us this right. These are really good lawyers. Croatia couldn't have gotten better. Finally, something else about the so-called fair border or the importance it has for coexistence in this part of Europe, especially for coexistence between the Slovenian and Croatian people. Justice is extremely important in setting limits. There have been many wars in the world so far because one country or another has felt that the boundaries of what they are are are not just and have been justified for various reasons. There are also many conflict situations that are not wars, but conflicts of war. And within the European Union, there are quite a few such problems that are open. Many of these problems have also been solved in recent years after many decades or centuries. Many of the foreign interlocutors with whom we discussed the problem warned us against making a decision that would lead to a quick - moving solution that either one country or another would consider unfair. And here we ask with all responsibility those who support the arbitration agreement: Are they aware of the possible situation that will arise if the arbitral tribunal does not determine the territorial exit of Slovenia into international waters? If over these territorial waters it will not be possible to fly directly from our airspace to international airspace and if this connection is in any way limited or our ownership will not be recognised or relativised. This will, of course, de facto mean that the situation is worse than it was at the time of independence, that Slovenia has agreed to something that substantially detracts from it. And it will be difficult to explain to those voters you are telling today that this will certainly be a territorial exit into international waters if this does not happen. You should think about it. But that's not the main problem. These are political implications that are likely to fall on the shoulders of that government, which will only come when that decision comes. Mr Pahor is not afraid of this, of course, because he knows that this hot bone from the crane will be picked up by someone else; arbitration will only begin after the signature of the Croatian accession treaty and the matter is deliberately written to stall. We asked the President of the Government this morning to list those points which are indeed the same between this agreement and the Rehn 2 Agreement, because they are not the same text because they are essential substantive differences. In his reply, he did not list one; in fact, he avoided that question, as did everyone else, where something had to be answered. We have listened again to words about how important the future is. We all know the future is important. A solution that most Slovenians do not consider fair will result in consequences that are at least partially predictable in advance for smart politics. The Constitutional Court has said that it may be necessary to amend the Constitution. A change of constitution requires a two-thirds majority, unless we have a similar coalition in power at the time, such as one that is more or less involved in such a majority. Either way, there's gonna be a complication. I do not believe that at any time in the Slovenian Parliament a two-thirds majority will be able to implement a solution that Slovenia will take any of what it has today and what it has gained through independence. I doubt there will ever be a two-thirds majority for such a solution. In this case, there will be a situation where international pressure is, on the one hand, a ratified international agreement, when it is implemented or when the arbitral tribunal is judged, is mandatory. On the other hand, a two-thirds majority is required for this realization. This is going to be an extremely interesting situation. It should also be said that we have some in the programme that we respect and have presented to the voters before the last elections, written down certain things that we will stick to. Our programme states that the border issue with Croatia must be resolved before Croatia enters the European Union. This is what we have openly told the voters before the elections, and we will keep this promise. So there can be a complication because there will simply be no two-thirds majority in the Slovenian Parliament for steps to be taken on Croatia's path to the European Union. Don't blame us then. You knew in advance what the situation was. It's been in our program for years, and we've warned you about that. And here the Prime Minister has no right to ask how it will be handled because he knows. We said it in advance, and whoever wanted it heard it. After what we have learned today, and even after what has not been answered today, and this is crucial, there are increasing legal and political concerns about this agreement. When the diplomatic missions of Sweden, which was then in the Presidency of the European Union and the United States, denied some of the essential points of the law adopted by Croatia at the time of the ratification of this arbitration agreement, circumstances arose when Slovenia could derogate without prejudice from this agreement. We once again call on the government and the government coalition to do so and the Slovenians to resolve this decision on June 6th. A much better solution can be found. And if we go into that solution united, there will also be significantly greater opportunities for success. In fact, in a way, a happy opportunity was smiled when things were cleared up; and this was achieved by reference to this meeting of the National Assembly. I suggest that this opportunity be taken advantage of, and I think that it will be us or that you will be very, very sorry if this does not happen. I know that some public research shows that this arbitration agreement will be adopted. I wouldn't look forward to it in my position, because it's not the end, but it's the beginning of trouble. Anyone who can count one and one should know how to anticipate these consequences. And even if he can't count, we've listed the consequences. So, things are pretty clear before this decision is made, and no one will be able to hide their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate on the proposal for a decision. No amendments were tabled to the amended proposal for a decision. The assembly will decide on the completion of the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We'll continue the session at 1850.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on clarifying the new circumstances in which the public was informed after the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a decision is as follows: The National Assembly has reacquainted itself with information on the circumstances of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As the amendments to the amended proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home working body would have made the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u131	Thanks again for saying that. This Decision cannot be supported. We have not been informed here of the answers that have been requested or the answers that are also required at this time when people will have to decide on an arbitration agreement at the referendum. We asked the President of the Government at least ten times when the President of the Croatian Government had promised him territorial access to international waters; in what form; what evidence exists; whether he is a witness; whether it is written or oral. We have not received an answer to any of these questions. We repeated them several times, although the Prime Minister was not here, he asked us a question and we answered everything, including where the alternatives are. We wanted to give it to him in writing. I'm glad he came to the vote at least. I would ask my colleagues to bring him these answers now so that we will not then hear for the next ten days that we have not presented any alternatives. They're clearly written, and they've been told here many times today. We asked the Foreign Minister why Slovenia did not formally protest the Croatian law on ratification of the arbitration agreement, which states that the Slovenian and Croatian government jointly informed the witnesses of this agreement, says the Presidency of the European Union and the United States of America, of Croatia's statement that nothing in this agreement can be explained as if Slovenia had a territorial exit into international waters. The answer to why the Slovenian government did not protest when this was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, why it did not request explanations from Croatia, was not received. Nor did we get an answer to the question why the diplomatic representations of the United States and Sweden only responded today to the Croatian law adopted in June. In short, we have not received any answer to the key questions and, of course, it is not possible to vote in favour of the conclusion that we are familiar with the relevant circumstances in which we have requested clarification here. So we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Let me stress that the President of the Government, in the context of his explanations of vote, is no longer in a position to answer questions. Since there is still an interest in explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups, please apply. Mr Janja Klasinc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u133	Dear Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government and the ministers! Of course, the Group of Social Democrats will adopt this decision because we were not familiar with any new facts today. This was explained by both the President of the Government and the Foreign Minister, as well as Minister Vlačič and all members of the coalition that we discussed. It is not true that the statement made by the Croatian Parliament today was new. We presented it twice in the National Assembly; for the first time, the government presented the intention of the Croatian government to make such a statement, as early as 3 November last year, then we learned this a few more days later, one week later, we spoke again on the Committee on Foreign Policy and after all, the disagreement of the Slovenian government with this declaration was also published in Article 3 of the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement. Things are clear, there are no new facts, and the explanation given by Mrs Kosorjevo, the Prime Minister of Croatia, about her statement said only that she did not say anything else in the arbitration agreement. So it's completely unnecessary for us to talk about any new facts. That's why we're going to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group. Fanco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. The Zares Group will support the decision because it considers that there have been no relevant new facts today and that it has once again proved to be empty arguments by the opponents of the arbitration agreement. We will also vote in favour because we cannot accept the immediate threats we have heard at the end of the applicant's argument that, even if most citizens and citizens decide on an arbitration agreement, problems will only begin. This is a grave threat that our country's democracy has nothing to do with democracy. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of this decision and thereby support the arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u136	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Anton Anderlič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u137	You could say: masks fell. It was to create the impression that everything was wrong, that some dramatic complication had led to new circumstances. Such scenarios have been seen in recent years, and we can say something in the last two decades. It is a pity that we have not made better use of this time to tell citizens and citizens that it is our decision to put this decision on their conscience and responsibility, just another way, an additional way to join forces and together tell us that it is up to us to deal with issues with the neighbouring country; that no government has been able to do this in 20 years, not the previous one, nor those of those of those parties that are most opposed today, including those who have given their consent silently to the neighbours of Croatia, that they have made the bridge over Mura, that they have worked on the left bank of Mura and so on. This opportunity has been partly delayed here, but it will certainly be a great opportunity in these fourteen days to say that once we support the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement, we will define one that, on the basis of international experience and on the basis of the manner in which open issues and disputes are addressed, will do so for us, for Croatia and perhaps also for some other countries. It is undeniable that in the Liberal Democracy we are convinced that, by what is enshrined in the Arbitration Agreement, we will maintain, at the very least: contact with the open sea and the Slovenian sea, which Slovenia has always had and will have, that we will regulate borders both on land and at sea and that we have so many arguments - both historical and those that are created and formed within a group organised within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and within the Government and where all those who can contribute in any way to Slovenia's better arguments for achieving what is the purpose of this arbitration and which will undoubtedly benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Deception, misrepresentation, misrepresentation - these were the answers to the so-called new circumstances that we soon got back to the table. The government has shown a lack of understanding of the subject and has not answered any questions raised by the opposition. Only new issues, new uncertainties, new complex data and new facts were raised with government speakers, indicating that it was somehow agreed that Slovenia would lose its sovereignty over a large part of Slovenian territory when the Slovenian coalition government was thirsty. When it was said to say an alternative, we said an alternative. This is an international peace conference, which can only resolve this Gordi knot, because after every war there must be a peace conference, otherwise, although the de facto war does not last longer, it takes de jure. Probably our legal experts don't know where South Korea is or where North Korea is so we can learn from this case. Still, it would be wise to look at a map at times. Politics, of course coalition, is trying to abuse citizens and citizens to justify treason. I hope this doesn't work. And it is precisely because we do not agree to the issue of our own country that we will not agree to vote in favour of this decision and we will vote against this decision. The fact is, we didn't get to know anything. The fact is that the Government has not answered the whole range of questions that we have asked. The fact is that it has only been shown that the Government speaks one thing, but in fact it does not even speak or understands and does not know if it speaks that right, because on the one hand it is lied to either the Americans and Sweden, on the other hand Croatia, on the third hand, the President of the Government himself and the entire Slovenian public – and I do not know what to do about it. The fact is that we must not support this decision, the fact is that the opposition must withdraw its powers and achieve that Slovenian citizens and citizens will not issue their own country and vote against this so-called arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. In his own name, did he respond to the explanation of the vote? [[...]] Do you want to do it in your own name? Excuse me? Then on behalf of the Mag Group of Members. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. So if we come from good-neighbourly relations, which we are supposed to be, one would expect us, of course, to be outspoken among countries. It's very strange that one of the partners writes in her marriage that we made a deal together, and that's not true, that's not true. That doesn't say good-neighbourhood. That doesn't indicate trust. In such circumstances and in such a spirit it is very difficult to solve such difficult problems, so we will vote against the decision proposed in the Slovenian People's Party. However, I would like to say that in the Slovenian People's Party we have never given a silent landing to build a bridge in Hotiz. We have always been very loud and have repeatedly appealed to every government to ask the Republic of Croatia to withdraw from the occupied territories and seas. We have been consistent and principled in this regard for years and years. We have proposed a resolution on the border with the Republic of Croatia three times. First in 2001, second in 2006 and third in 2008. In 2008, the resolution changed into a landmark decision of the National Assembly, which was confirmed by us Members of the Assembly with great consensus in this reference. We've been bullied many times because we've been alerting ourselves to border issues. You know, at this arbitration you're going to use the painting material with your adjectives, and a lot of what was going on at the border near Dragonja. I am sure that you will also use Joško Joras to justify what was Slovenian on many occasions. I'm sure of it. And a lot of them were making a fool of him. Let us be right, and let us acknowledge those who constantly advocate the same thing in the same way and are consistent and principled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Renata Brunskole. Before you begin, I would like to remind you once again: without direct controversy and reference to positions or people from opposite groups. Please, Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. For those who live on the border with the Republic of Croatia at the Schengen border, I live 500 metres from this border alone, there is no dilemma at all, how and how to vote. Even for today’s decision, because I think that people who have the opportunity to listen to me today expect me to do the same. It will also be next Sunday when we vote in favour of the arbitration agreement. However, because I want us to live a normal life, under the same conditions as people at the Schengen border, like those in the interior of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not think there is a dilemma in this direction. We have this right, and we want the situation to be resolved as soon as possible or not, the situation is fine, but the open issues are resolved as soon as possible. I do not wish to politicise, as Mr President has pointed out, but here matters are clear and all those who are aware of the importance of this agreement will be voted in favour of an arbitration agreement. Today, I will certainly support this decision for the benefit of all those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have trusted me to be a member of the National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u145	Thank you. Nothing lowers the country's reputation and credibility abroad than jumping from one extreme to the extreme. And we have witnessed that this government, first of all to divert attention from its economic failure, has declared a blockade, which I have repeatedly warned that is a harmful and fatal mistake for Slovenia's reputation. Then, under pressure from abroad, she knelt down and adopted the text of an arbitration agreement which is harmful to Slovenia and is worse than many who have already been on the table, for example, than the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. Finally, today, the President of the Government said that what was written in article 3 of the Croatian Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement was not true, and he therefore accused our neighbour of ratifying the agreement with fraud, which is a serious accusation. But at the same time, we haven't received an answer from the Government all day long, whether it will at least now protest whether it will take legal action if it is a lie, as this government claims. Not even the answer to why she did not act for seven months when it was time and opportunity. All we have heard is the claim that every term is a contact – and look, we have listened to this allegation by those who, as government negotiators to us at the closed and then at the open meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, have said themselves that the proposed proper expression "territorial access to the high sea" was first proposed and then, under pressure from abroad, agreed to the term "junction". Anyone who goes to a referendum should be asked if all expressions are truly equivalent. Then why the Slovenian negotiators first proposed one term that is internationally correct according to Webster's dictionary and then agreed to another, which by Webster's dictionary means only a connection. Of course I'll vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Miro Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I will vote against it myself, because it is very important that we have not received an answer to the essential question in these 10 hours, where and when Mrs Kosor has provided territorial contact with the open sea. We did not get a short simple answer to one very simple question. Apparently, this government is in big trouble. Who's lying? Whether the Croatian side is lying or lying to the Slovenian side, the Slovenian government – as far as possible. For the government of Mr Borut Pahor has achieved some important achievements in this mandate. We have dropped significantly on the corruption index, media freedom has decreased, but unemployment in Slovenia has increased. And what else is getting stronger in this country? A culture of lies and fraud and fraud is established. What is fraud? That's if someone with a scam gets a benefit at the expense of someone else. And that will obviously be Croatia, but with the assistance of our government or current policy, perhaps even because of their incompetence, it does not know. And for Slovenia, the arbitration agreement will be a disaster, and Slovenia will be defrauded; and you, colleagues and colleagues will be entering history.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote against such a decision because it does not reflect the situation or today's debate. We have been given a lot of deliberation, including deception, and I am particularly concerned that we have not received the right answers and that there are still many silent facts both by the President of the Government and, I am sure, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I am sure that in today's debate, those who have watched us have had the opportunity to find out about new facts, despite the fact that there have also been interruptions in certain areas, it was probably just an accident, but, however, I am sure that people have recognized that there is now a third historic opportunity in them, which can positively decide on such important fates as the Slovenian territory. For the first time, when they decided for Koroška on the plebiscite, we lost Koroška to the fights. Secondly, when we decided on such matters in 1990, we were so united that we voted in favour of Slovenia alone and succeeded. Now, the third historic opportunity is once again, which we must not lose, and I hope that voters and voters will recognize that this is not a political prestige of one party or another, but that it is an opportunity to reject such an agreement, to negotiate again, to get what Slovenia has always had, and not to let go, I repeat, let us leave Croatia to what it never had. She has no right, and neither do we have the right to leave it to her — for the sake of our grandchildren and our craftsmen. As I said, I will vote against such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his name Victory Jelinčič Trinitarian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. One of the arguments was that, of course, if Slovenia did not accept this agreement, it would be lonely, rejected, punished and not know what else. One more lie and stupidity. Because we are comparing Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament has not yet ratified the border with the country of Croatia because it is disputed territories, because the question of the former Hungarian port of Rijeka and Hungary is based on its requirements in 1918. Hungarians can't, Slovenians can't! And yet Hungary is in the European Union, and so am I, but no one tells Hungary what they can and what they can't do. Slovenia itself renounces certain rights, and you can be sure that these rights will not be waived by either Bosnians, nor Montenegrins, or Serbs, or Hungarians, we only voluntarily agree that we are willing to give someone a piece of Slovenian land. A terrible thing is how little patriotism is in the Slovenian government and how little patriotism is in certain political parties that are supposed to be left-handed, I would say, nationalistly conscious – it is not. And that is why I will also personally vote against this terrible decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I will also vote against it, because in today’s debate or if it takes longer, I might find out something else because some of the answers were very unfortunate and when we went to check, even if they were not in line with the legislation. However, I am certainly coming from this fact, which is here in Article 3 of the Croatian law, which speaks of the fact that the countries have notified together. Now in a new light, I am looking at all the Foreign Policy Committee meetings where some of the things we are threatening to leave the meeting are finally just getting out. If the state has been notified together, i.e. if this Croatian separate statement went with the consent of Slovenia, why did we not get to the Foreign Policy Committee meeting to look at, comment on and identify ourselves? Why did we have to force this matter? Then I'd like to remind you of the circus of secrecy. After some super controls we finally got an arbitration agreement, first in a quiet room, then in a meeting and earlier than 24 hours it was published on hr.net and then the Slovenian government withdrew the secret code. A new question was certainly raised, who lied in this triangle, Slovenia, Croatia, and then America and Sweden. If Croats claim something by law, the Swedes, Americans deny it, and from Slovenia even now in this house and I have not officially heard any denial, no argument, no statement. I will vote against it at the end of the referendum itself, because it is harmful to Slovenia and may in fact be as dangerous as Koroski plebiscite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Since there is still a desire to explain the voices, I am reopening the debate. Voice explanation, mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I will support this decision because there has been no concrete new facts or just the opposite that what we want to do with the arbitration agreement must be done to get what we do not have, and this is the way out to the open sea, contact with territorial waters, good neighbourly relations and exemplary economic cooperation. The more this story is buried, the more the other truth is revealed. That those at the forefront of the military's defence aspect are functioning poorly in peace and want constant tensions and incidents. And it's a shame that in 1991 we didn't stay at the points that we had before the war, because then the relationship, the border on the other side of Dragonje, on the top of the hill, and the line against Savudrija, would still be a meaningful argument. The historical facts and participation of Slovenes and Slovenians in Istria are indisputable. Unfortunately, in 1991, we succeeded, unfortunately, in squeezing and cementing something that is certainly not good for us today. I will support the agreement and the proposal for a decision before us, because it is always better to agree and agree than to argue and be in conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm guessing that the blockade we backed wasn't a mistake. Members of the Slovenian People's Party unanimously supported this as well as a large part of this Parliament. But there was a deblocking error. The blockade was a mistake because, in our view, we have not endured anything or very little or the result of what we have endured, these deblocks, this agreement, which puts me in great doubt, is a great doubt of success. By nature, I think of myself as an optimist and a positiveist. But I have to admit, I can't see that this glass of water is half full, but it's half empty. I'm just saying that I'm very pessimistic right now. And because that's what I'm worried about, because I think we're putting too much on the line, I'm going to vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and Minister! Of course, I will vote against this decision because the question of the answers given has simply not been asked. First time. Secondly, I will also vote against agreement 6. 6. 2010 at the referendum. And I believe that the vast majority will decide plebiscitely at referendum 6. 6. 2010 against this agreement, as the plebiscite decided on 23 December 1990 for the independence of Slovenia. Those who voted in favour of this agreement would undermine the decision on Slovenia's independence, indivisibility, integrity, which we voted on 23 December 1990. Let's go in one order. How are countries – Croatia, Slovenia, Italy? Then how can territorial waters – Croatian, Slovenian and Italian – be followed? How can Croatian and Italian territorial waters be followed? How would Slovenia skip? You know this is even possible, but only if someone has in mind that from this country, Slovenia, they will become the county of Podalpa Croatia. At that time we could also skip territorial waters, Croatian and Italian, if of course Slovenia were no longer. But you have no right to waste this and, thank God, you do not have this option because the Slovenian nation will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour because today it has been proven that there are no new circumstances. On the part of the opposition, in addition to the arguments that have already been rejected several times, we today received a new table, i.e. that there was some secret agreement between Slovenia and Croatia on a unilateral statement that Slovenia knew about this and, of course, also informed the Swedish Presidency together. This was denied today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; not only by the Government, but also by the Swedish ambassador and also by the United States Attorney of Affairs. I think that's clear evidence and an answer to your question after a 10-hour discussion. Today’s demagogies, populism, falsehoods, and lies go beyond all bounds of good taste. No wonder people are really confused about what and how. However, it is necessary to say that no one in this Chamber, and I believe that no one in this Slovenia wants to sell this territory, to surrender this territory, in any way to betray our country, but to ensure that the solution to the border is fair. And this arbitration agreement ensures that this border will be fairly resolved. The key points are provided in the arbitration agreement required by policy through history: from setting the maritime and land borders to getting in contact with the open sea, to the regime, to all the conditions that will be established within the arbitration agreement that the arbitral tribunal must take into account and, crucially, all policies also required a cut-off date on 25 June 1991. This is contained in an agreement that is simple. Dear colleagues and colleagues, read it again to see what the arbitral tribunal will decide, and on this basis you will also judge and, of course, doubt whatever you wish. However, it seems important to me that citizens and citizens do not consent to deep populistism and to what has happened here today and is happening throughout the campaign, and I hope that we will indeed prevail over reason and that we will vote in favour of the arbitration agreement on 6 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Janja Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u163	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, vote in favour of this decision. The decision to re-examine the facts that have also strengthened me today is that this arbitration agreement is good because Slovenia provides a peaceful and fair solution to the disputed border issue with Croatia because it ensures territorial contact with the open sea and ensures that we can finally normalise our relations with neighbouring Croatia. The arbitration solution has proved to be a very good solution for Slovenia since our independence, when the Badinter Arbitration Court ruled on the borders between the republics of the former Yugoslavia and at that time the Slovenians were pleased with the arbitral tribunal. I'm sure we'll do it this time. I am confident that we will finally be able to experience the return of all the territories and all the sea that has been slowly disappearing in the last 19 years. Those who do not hear or understand these arguments today insist on the recipe for the Balkan solution of these problems of the previous century. I will vote in favour today and June 6th because I do not want to cultivate bad relations and new blockades, but I am counting on the understanding of all our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u165	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour because I come from a border area and I want peace and good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries. This, I believe, is also the opinion of the majority of the people of the border areas, but I will also vote in favour of this decision, because we are already on the way to the other international arbitration tribunal, which will help us to resolve all open issues, as the Badinter Arbitration Commission then encouraged the international recognition of the Republic of Slovenia and also our fundamental constitutional charter. On the basis of that basic constitutional charter, we are now prepared to settle the situation with neighbouring Croatia definitively after 19 years of border and already territorial conflict. Arbitration is a place where we finally have the opportunity to present all the arguments, all the documentation, all the evidence, justifiably, and, if we are right, we must not doubt that arbitration will give us what is ours. However, if there is no self-confidence and the opponents of arbitration prove this, unfortunately, we do ourselves a bear service and we are now helping a certain prejudice to the other party in the dispute. I do not understand you, but I understand the efforts for peace, for the European quality of life - both in Slovenia and especially in border areas. So I'll support the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 31. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the draft law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 27. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 32. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 46. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the bill would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm hearing advice for a SDS break. How much do you suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u168	Mr. Kontic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u169	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I request or propose a suspension of 30 minutes for consultation before the decision is taken in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u170	Yeah, we'll take that into account. Is there any interest or desire to explain to the vote, to explain the vote on behalf of the groups? It's not. Is there a desire to explain your voice in your own name? It's not. So, I'm closing in on a moment of attention. [[...]] I conclude by explaining my voice and assigning a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 8:05.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u171	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and the vote on the bill. Would you like a word, Mr. Kontic? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have consulted in the Group of Social Democrats, as I have announced, and have decided to support the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 30. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 1st item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public funds is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to announce, as I have pointed out at the time of the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, that we will abstain from voting on this law. In the parliamentary group, we support the principles and objectives of the law. We support the introduction of order in the field of social benefits in particular, as the Minister said, among other things, it is an assessment that between 18% and 20% of these funds are being spent in an inappropriate manner. However, we have not received any clarification on many of the details of this law, particularly in the identification of assets and on some matters which are extremely important in determining social transfers. Although, of course, we agree that we have one entry point, that we have a central register of rights, that the Ministry develops criteria for the duration of social threats and so on. What is the greatest dilemma in this regard and, above all, we will refrain from believing that both of these two laws today and pension reform should be dealt with approximately parallel. We stress that all the time. And yet the greatest stumbling block is with us, literally the abolition of the state pension. In our view, it must remain, even though we are introducing it in this social work, i.e. the transfer to social measures, i.e. from the cash register to social measures, but it must be taken into account that it is literally a status category, that it is a category, whether someone has a pension – someone who will not receive it on other principles – or whether it is occasionally determined whether he is suitable or entitled to some social assistance. Above all, this is why we will abstain from the first consideration of this law. In the event that the second reading is properly explained that the Government will come with the appropriate amendments, it is not said that even then, of course, given that there are sufficient solutions for the good, that we will support or not support the future if all the solutions remain as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, just allow an amendment to the vote at agenda item 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I said 46 by mistake. 45 voted in favour of the previous 6th item of the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in a second reading to the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and to persons with disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Social Security Benefits. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on social security benefits is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group Jakob Presectnik. May I have peace in the hall, please? Each parliamentary group shall have the right to explain its vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure my explanation won't last half an hour and that's why the excitement and what I've just said is in my time to explain my voice. [[...]] Mr President and Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the same will be done by the parliamentary group in this case, in the case of the Social Security Benefits Act, because I reiterate that we believe that this law and the previous law on the enforcement of rights from public funds and the pension reform should be considered in parallel. So, of course, we will definitely decide to support this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group when we find that this law does not create additional injustices; I think we have already explained in the opinion of the Group. The Group of Members will abstain in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in second reading to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 3rd item of the agenda - first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their Areas, EPA 1031. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Do you want to do it on a case-by-case basis? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u178	Mr President, if you will explain on the basis of which Article of the Rules of Procedure you requested an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service at this stage on these municipalities. The legislative and legal service has no authority to interpret the rules of procedure or the procedures for the adoption of laws, as you yourself declared at one session, I have a magnetogram here at one session earlier. He just doesn't give an opinion at this stage. You answered Mr. Tank, "they don't give opinions." But I see this as pressure before decision-making, because this part also lists a number of things that have also been published in the means of public information, when your professional colleagues, externally paid professionals, explain the procedures that they do not agree with it and, of course, they think that it is also legally wrong and appropriate. It's too much and it's not right to do it that way. Since last spring we have witnessed a number of complications, from trying to disable the invitation to tender with the help of all services, both in the National Assembly and in the Government, trying to prevent the call for referendums. When the National Assembly decided that the envisaged areas met the conditions and when the referendums were carried out, the results were also announced in the National Assembly. And when the law was to come, it came to me now that I know the reasons why - until we were supposed to miss the hands that you yourself have called and interpreted, that it is no longer meaningful that what now repeats the Law-Legal Service also in its conclusion, in the meantime, to get an explanation from the Government that says – and everything gathered here will not be an opportunity to debate here, but to prove that it is intentional abuse and prevention, that these procedures, where the Government clearly states that the 3-month deadline, as you have set here before the end of the mandates in the municipalities, is not a binding one, is an instructional deadline. The 2006 experience also says that the local elections were only announced on 8 August, which is far less than three months, and at the end of May, one, two, three, or I do not know how many municipalities were established at the request of the court. In short, I ask you only on what basis, on which basis did we get this at this stage on the table and just before deciding on this issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. I'm glad you asked. I am pleased that, in fact, when I received the proposal to send both laws into the legislative procedure, I have faced the concerns of the professional services in the National Assembly and, in fact, with proposals that I should reject both laws and not allow them to enter into the legislative procedure. After thorough weighing, I myself have assessed that it is never before the President of the National Assembly who formally fulfils the conditions that I have rejected, but this decision actually always leaves, clearly, the National Assembly. Even the laws that remain without articles, for example, and are not capable of further consideration, we present them here and find here that they are not capable of further consideration. We also met with these concerns at the College. After discussion at the College, we decided, however, to present an opinion on both topics by law and the legal opinions were not written for the purpose of second reading of the draft laws, because of this, of course, we would have prejudged that the second treatment would be at all, but we have not yet voted on the first reading. For the first reading of the Rules of Procedure, it does not provide for mandatory or legal opinions, not at all, so I did not base this opinion on a commercial provision, but this opinion was based on a discussion in the College and, of course, is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure, since the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit the obtaining of a legal opinion before that in the National Assembly. It doesn't prohibit it, and that's why it's possible. I would like to add one more thing, namely that after this vote, when a legal opinion came to second reading, when Members and Members faced this opinion, they would know that I had already been aware of these facts and that I had not presented them to you, in fact, I could have come across the obvious that I have not presented to you all the circumstances concerning the decision on these two laws. That's why I think this is the right decision, and you're going to decide what you want. Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Voice explanation, please. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the members of the groups, please apply. I apologize, there was a procedural proposal and I must first read, you are right, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, EPA 1031, is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'll file another report. In your own name, Anton Anderlich. There are more, I'm sorry, Mr. Anderlich. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this decision. I am one of the signatories to this bill. The environment in question was more than serious at the referendum, decided to set up a congregation and the result of the referendum in this environment was so high that it was not possible to ignore it and it was necessary to fulfil the will of the countries of the Mirna Valley to set up the Mirna Congregation. That's why I can't support this. I'm worried about what's been said. In view of the fact that the law comes into effect without prior treatment under the procedure laid down by law, in the hope that the decision will still be in force and that, in the course of the procedure, this law will still be adopted and realized the wish of the people there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u181	Explanation of Franco Juri's voice. Please, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u182	I will vote in favour of this decision because, in accordance with my position and with my principles, I support the democratically expressed will of the countries of the local community, and I hope for future congregations, Mirna. For if we listen now, I demand that the procedure begin from the very beginning and we wait again for a new referendum, another additional act of human will should be performed. However, I think we are obliged as Members to decide on this. You yourself said that the procedure was justified, now we have an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, of course, I respect, is relevant, but I am also surprised by the way it appeared and we got it just before the vote, not before the debate. And methodologically, I don't think that's the right thing to do. And that makes me even more convinced that it is necessary to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u184	The National Assembly had already confirmed the congregation of Ankaran and the congregation of Mirna, and then the Council of State voted veto to that law, but at the meeting itself, he did not mention the congregation of Mirna or that area. The President of the Council of State also informed the local community of Mirna that he regretted that the package did not bring Mirna through, and after the vote was re-voted, Mirna fell out despite more than 88% of the people's will at the referendum. The municipality of Mirna was proposed by the Government and the coalition in order to then unite the three municipalities, which, of course, the coalition supports. Here before the National Assembly, Mr President, you had their representatives and the mayors of the two neighbouring municipalities to explain to you what their intention was, but they were not accepted. These municipalities and the National Community of Mirna have joint projects in the protection of the environment where the local community cannot participate or participate with its resources because it does not get enough from the municipality, so they intend to join themselves in the next elections and realize the desire of the complete Miren Valley. That is why we are only correcting the injustice that we have already done to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. An explanation for Anton Anderlich's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u186	In these days, I have heard many things, thoughts, even incredible imaginations. From making a municipality to running for mayor, from doing business with certain specific people, to doing anything else. Can you, however, not believe that someone can do something out of conviction and in accordance with the Constitution and according to law and human will?Oh, my God! Is it really possible to believe that when we put the initiative through the back door, in opposition to the Legislative and Legal Service, in opposition to Mr Plevelja and others, that we have even called for a referendum for this area? That the referendum was voted by more than two-thirds of all. That the National Assembly confirmed the results of the referendum. That the National Assembly had set up a congregation and then failed to confirm the veto once again. And that the natives are once again — and I have heard this observation that they are supposed to be putting pressure on these people, they are supposed to be being pressured here. No! No! More than a two-thirds majority of signatories. I regret that the President did not wish to accept the representatives of the National Assembly to tell him that they had expressed more than two-thirds will with signatures. And because I believe in democracy and because I believe that people are right and that there is no legal hindrance and instillation and excuse for some things that don't exist are in place, so I will vote, and also my fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy, for the fact that the law is appropriate and that where there is will [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] "is also the way, because also with law and legal standards, everything is reinforced. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Only a technical explanation concerning the admission of a delegation from Mirna. I must say that after the complaint of the suspicion of corruption, including me, concerning the establishment of municipalities, particularly Ankaran, I have decided that I will not communicate this matter with any of the actors involved in this matter until the rejection or confirmation has been made. Certainly with no actors involved in the establishment of municipalities. I will be very happy to meet the natives of the Peace after these procedures have been completed. Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I have always supported efforts to establish new congregations, but on condition that all have equal conditions, that all are equal before the law. This is the case when this did not happen when an arbitral decision was made. And the administrative courts in Celje and Maribor were twice, I don't know how many cases there were, found that the decision was arbitrary and so we had to meet again and decide again. The procedure we started last year ran as it did, and you have decided that only two proposals are the ones that satisfy the conditions; and those that have worse conditions. The proposal that I proposed, which was the best in the population, had the largest population, so that people could not even decide at the referendum whether they wanted to have their own congregation or not. The procedure was concluded by veto and then by re-voting in the National Assembly. You and I have all voted together, as we have voted, the procedure is closed. Now, at the back door, you've started a new procedure, and it's once again arbitrary, just those two proposals that you think are appropriate. We should start over, but that's another story now. In this case, I will not support, even for this simple reason, because the people who had the best conditions to establish the municipality of Loče had the best conditions, could not get the opportunity to set up their municipality, because 4 thousand and 200 people do not have the condition of 5,000, but we have an example of a congregation proposal with 2 thousand and 400 inhabitants, and you said, "They can have a congregation." However, this is arbitrary, and so it cannot be and, worst of all, we would now like to bring these two proposals through, which do not have 5,000 inhabitants, and now you announce that you will change the law, where exceptions will no longer be possible. Ah, our suggestions, our two proposals go through, and then it's over. This is not right, gentlemen, and I cannot therefore support this or the next proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. As ever before, I will support this proposal, so I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. That was very modeling. Just so everyone can follow your lead. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič. Examples are drawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! This is a dance of witches and witches, which has been re-enacted by the government coalition in this mandate. The Law on Local Self-Government deals with the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, and also states when it departs from certain conditions, but the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities does not provide for the establishment of municipalities where applicants are government Members. Well, that's a mistake. So this should be written in the Law on the Establishment of Communities and it would be perfectly clear. So what you've been doing, colleagues and colleagues of the government coalition, in other cases where you haven't even given them the opportunity to call for a referendum to be defined for or against, is unacceptable and morally controversial. Otherwise, for this government coalition, what did it have to do? Have you ever heard of - probably never. Well, I'm sure you need some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u193	No food dispute, and so are you, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u194	You're leaving because you need them because that's how you do it because you're making an arbitrary decision. [[...]] I will vote for the establishment of the congregation of Mirna as well as for Ankaran. I just hope you don't have anything to vote for Mirna and you're against Ankaran. I hope you don't play double morals here, and twice have a left and twice have a right hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The work in the Government and the National Assembly in this mandate is extremely confused. There are many contradictions between the government and the government coalition and within the government coalition in the National Assembly. And it also shows up on every scale we can get. The impudence of the coalition has also been demonstrated in this case of the establishment of municipalities, since the opposition's proposals, although they met the conditions more effectively, have been rejected by all in a row, without exception. And that only indicates the duality of the coalition and the hard division of ours and yours. That is why only Anderlich's proposal and Yuri's proposal were brought together. It happened that the veto was voted on and the coalition voted again in the National Assembly to lose 22 votes, which it did not give to proposals that would thus confirm the law. After the veto, the government introduced a new Law on Local Self-Government, which substantially changes the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. And then came two other coalition proposals, which are in total contradiction to the government's proposed amendment to the law. And the fact that the coalition allowed this bypass to outrun government law is actually some sort of weird act. For we cannot deal with simultaneously with laws governing a similar or related social relationship, but in particular government law cannot be preceded. And by putting these two marriages on the agenda, you did just that. Personally, I do not fully support any solutions or proposals that create new inequalities between potential candidates for new municipalities, and I will also vote against this bill. All I would say is that the Group of Members has not formed a firm position in this regard and will vote in its own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote in favour of the proposed decision, mainly because of the five points. First, because people went to the referendum and clearly expressed their will. Secondly, because it was in Parliament today when we talked about another referendum, which will be held on June 6th, that we were talking about how important the will of the electorate is to us. Because it would seem unfair to me that once the electorate's will, when they decide on an arbitration agreement, I take into account, and secondly, when they decide which congregation they want to live in, I do not take these wills into account. I will vote in favour, because even today, the words I have heard in Parliament, in this Chamber, have been echoed by the congregation of Mirna and Ankaran. I heard the words, "We won." And lastly, I will vote in favour because I cannot get rid of the feeling that some will use all the means, including those that, if you want, may be disallowed, disputed, if not otherwise, at least morally. However, I find it most improper to vote for one congregation and be against the other, so, for one, but not for the other. So, I will absolutely vote in favour of the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 31. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in a second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 4th item of the agenda - first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas (EPA 1032). We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas [[EPA 1032]] is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anybody want to do it on behalf of the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Tanko? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask you to apply for explanations of vote in your own name, in your own name, whatever. Explanation of Dr. Luke Yuri's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I will vote against such a decision for four reasons. For reasons of solidarity. In fact, the Municipality of Koper and the other two coastal municipalities live on the basis of solidarity between productive coastal work and rural ice. This solidarity has been a development that has been going on for 50 years, and it is so much more stressed in Cyprus by the existence of Luke Koper, who we have built all the Koper and all the Korčans and others, that today it would be unfair for the fruit of this part of the bow duty, half of the work now belonging to all, to take over only according to the 50,000 inhabitants of the congregation, the small grain, that is, 3,000. It is not right that what is being shared with a 160-euro citizen today only one local community of 1200 euros is receiving. I will vote on my responsibility, because I know that if we break up today or if we decide to break up the Koper municipality, unfortunately, four more units will fall apart in the short run, because the Korpčans in the center will most likely follow this break-up of solidarity, they want their own, they want their benefits, and there will be three rural congregations left. Consistency, because I think the congregation is good if you run it well, but not if it is small; and out of legality because the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service clearly states that the procedure has been completed. And if we want to start a new procedure, we should start from the beginning, including a referendum, which is consultative, but no matter what, it should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. An explanation for Anton Anderlich's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u202	I've also heard that the Ankarans think that I have the same standards for each other, and that I'm going to let them down, I've listened, and these eyewitnesses don't. The same arguments apply as at the previous point. But if you ever decided to run for mayor in your life, maybe you'd consider where it's better, whether it's at Mirna or Ankaran. But you should meet many conditions for this, so of course I will not think in this direction or in any other way. It is a pity to repeat the arguments and my colleagues will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u203	Explanation of voice, Franco Juri, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u204	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour, as I voted in favour of Mirna. In particular, because I do not want to, I would not like to vote against participating in the story of attempts to play referendum will, because this would rob us of all credibility in the consideration of such an important democratic institution. The fact is, if I were to be forced by the Ankarans and the Mirnians back to the referendum, by the fact that they already knew that that referendum would never be taken into account, I think that the tila would be an incredible game with fire. That is why I believe that we are obliged as Members to listen to the opinion of the four constitutional lawyers who have explained why we should be obliged to ensure the realization of that referendum will and therefore the establishment of these two municipalities. It's the fate of the people, it's the fate of the place, it's the fate of democracy. If we do not confirm this with today's vote, then it will be difficult to convince people that we are serious about the referendum and their will. They will feel played, and as such they will use and choose other ways to express dissatisfaction. I don't want to do this, and that's why I'm going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. An explanation for Rudolf Petan's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. So, already in my previous proposal, I've mentioned some of the reasons why I'm going to go against it. The same is true, for what is happening here seems to me a little bit too much hypocrisy. It's just as if for a swimming championship for all but two contestants, they would tie their hands and throw them in the pool, and now swim, and then those two who would be the best, because they were the only ones with their hands untied, could go on with their qualifications. That's what you did here. Because you have not even given other suggestions the opportunity to let people decide whether they want to set up a congregation or not. And now to wise up how we must respect the people, it's like tied hands. And what's even worse, these people, specifically in Loča, from the area that had the best conditions, is the fear that if you also arbitrarily decide whether the Government arbitrarily decided that in these municipalities we would co-finance schools and plumbing, cleaning plants and in those of yours we would not. There are no criteria. The only criteria are those we set. We're just going to tie some hands to build a new school and plumbing, and we're going to let them through. Well, they'll be the best, anyway, the ones that will stay. And I do not agree with this arbitrary decision, nor do the locals, who have authorized me to make a proposal for the Municipality of Loče, of course, do not understand it. Of course, they do not deny that other areas also receive their congregation, but why only those others can and they cannot. This is all a problem and an arbitrary decision. and it seems to me that such development cannot go on and that is why I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to reapply. Explanation of the voice of Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u208	This explanation could be a little shorter, given my last one. So, I'm going to vote like I voted "yes". And since the congregation of Mirna has been voted against by 34 and 31, I am confident that the congregation of Ankara will also be voted on, for I cannot imagine that there could be so much duplicity to support one another as not. In fact, they both met the same conditions under the same law, they both had a referendum signed, they both voted in favour at the referendum, which means all legal routes were made. If a few more congregations later arise if, in accordance with the new law you are predicting, local self-government, it can only mean faster and better development in Primorska. It is true, however, colleagues and colleagues, that at least those political parties that were also today a coalition and the majority in the government were also years ago, when even - or so these political parties - formed municipalities without a referendum. So you didn't even call for a referendum, you decided about the congregation and you set it up. So this is a political decision, and, of course, in the National Assembly, it is a political decision for the Ankarans to finally decide their destiny, their development and their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-26-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
