ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today: Franc Jurša, Roberto Battelli, Anton Kolarič, Franco Juri, Anton Kampus and Ivan Grill. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all those present and ask for your hearing in the hall. We are moving on to the agenda of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 7. 5. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. With regard to the proposals for extending the agenda, I inform you that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is 14. 5. 2010 tabled a proposal to extend the agenda of this meeting by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, EPA 1031 /5 first examined, and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, EPA 1032 /5 first considered. That proposal, as already stated in the College, does not meet the conditions for enlargement required cumulatively in the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. While the reasons for the extended were given by reference to the 17th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, these two amendments do not concern matters covered by Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the applicant specifically refers to the third subparagraph of Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely matters relating to the termination and confirmation of the mandate of the Member, the immunity of the Member and other holders of public functions or matters relating to elections, appointments and discharges. In view of the above-mentioned establishment of municipalities, which are otherwise the subject of these two novel laws, it shall not fall under the auspices of this indent or of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the agenda. Procedural proposal, Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u2	Mr President, the 18th story repeats. 3. When, with the same explanation, you rejected the procedural proposal to extend the agenda, then the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. On Friday, you were faced with all the arguments that the substantive and, above all procedurally, this proposal fulfils all the conditions. The two laws for the establishment of these municipalities were tabled in accordance with the procedure referred to in the reduced procedure and at the same time a request was made for this to be addressed at an extraordinary meeting. When the College did not adopt the reduced procedure, the 15-day deadline began. Within this period, the qualified majority required a first hearing for both laws. And the first is dealt with in accordance with arguments that are incontrovertible, at the first next meeting, even when it comes to hands that may be compromised. And it is not true that you explain that the third indent of Article 58 does not apply, for the preparations for elections in the congregation of Koper and the congregation of Trebnje are, in effect, already running and is important every day. 18.3.2010 you stated that all the hands had already expired because we, both the Government and the National Assembly, had missed these hands. During this time, many more things have happened. One law was passed, a veto was tabled and the law was not re-examined. Subsequently, electoral beneficiaries from all the electoral beneficiaries in the local community Mirna collected 1,452 signatures or 67.35% of electoral beneficiaries and 53.19% of electoral beneficiaries in the future municipality of Ankara. As it is so and by the request of the National Assembly that, in accordance with the procedure for which it has also been requested, these two laws be dealt with in an urgent manner at an emergency meeting, and since a regular meeting has already been convened, it is laid down in the rules of procedure that those matters which would be necessary and necessary should be classified in accordance with Articles 58 and 64 of the Rules of Procedure in the first regular meeting. I therefore propose that this enlargement of the agenda [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Decisions of the National Assembly and that it cannot be reopened to arbitral decision because it is not an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure at the meeting, but a procedure supported by 23 signatures for the convening of an extraordinary meeting as well as 10 signatures for [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] First reading and so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. First, at least personally, I look with affection at the efforts of citizens and citizens of both places to get to their congregation. What my view is on small congregations is not important in this case, but there is no need to mix this issue. The fact is, we can't say that preparations for the elections have already been made. Elections aren't even scheduled, it's still time, and I don't think we need to talk at all. What needs to be said is as follows. The College rejected the examination of both laws by means of a reduced procedure, so they went into a regular procedure with a 15-day deadline within which a request for a first hearing could be made. That's why he's in that session. The College also found that the request for a meeting was irrelevant because this 15-day deadline for the first hearing was running. The request for a first hearing has been submitted, but this first hearing of both laws cannot take place because, as I have already explained, they do not meet cumulatively both conditions. One condition is met, and this is that the reasons arising from the meeting are, therefore, the sixth paragraph of Article 64, but not the seventh paragraph, which goes to Article 58, second paragraph. You refer to the third indent, which is totally inappropriate and relates to mandate-holder matters, but not to matters related to the establishment of municipalities. I certainly agree that the law must be dealt with as soon as possible. Of course, it is possible to request a new meeting, which is extraordinary, and also to deal with them at first reading. However, I must further explain to you that this extension proposal was tabled on Friday at the College and was not included on the agenda of the meeting. By 12:00 a.m. on Sunday, until yesterday, you have not tabled a formal proposal to extend the agenda of the meeting, which is why I cannot put this to the vote, Mr Anderlič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u4	Look, Mr President, it would be best if you were informed. 13. 5. A request was made for an extension of the meeting, not for an extension of the agenda of the College, but for an extension of the meeting. Two days before the deadline, we made that request. Two days ahead of schedule! The fact that you opened the question yourself in the College - you yourself have opened the question, "we got it" and so on - without me - I was there because of something else - even meant to deal with it in the College, but I expected it to be in accordance with Article 58, as it expanded in Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure, that this would be done in today's meeting. You opened this discussion on Friday, and it went in a strange direction. Thus, today, that there is no legitimate and legal extension requirement is incorrect. You've already got 13 of these. At the very least, in this process, it would be right and democratic for the public and ourselves to decide what to do with it. The fact that you're sending us back on the same thing to collect signatures, when we've collected them three times, here I've told you that you had the same explanation on March 13th, but in the meantime there's a lot going on. And there's been an extra will. I, like you, am not talking about how someone is going to vote. Because of me, if the will is to reject in the first reading that the law is not suitable for further consideration, you cannot deny other arguments and refer to other articles of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, but when it comes to the substantive justification of the reasons, we simply do not have this right. In the end, this will be the last exhausted option, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, unless the Constitutional Court, as it usually does every four years, requires us to do something more urgently before the elections. However, it is not true that activities do not take place, because it is essential to prepare such electoral units, so everything else within the municipalities, even in those municipalities that have a tradition from the beginning, that initiatives arise whether there will be one electoral unit or there will be more and there will be debates. But it's not that important. If you are a strict formalist, it is right to say that there has not yet been an election process because they have not yet been declared, but it is also true that they have not yet been declared, although it was said at the last meeting, when we also dealt with these two cases that all the hands have expired, but the elections have not yet been called. Four years ago, you know, they also referred to an instructional deadline, and the elections were not called until the first half of August 2006. I propose that the council decide on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Even if this letter and why not, we can interpret 13. 5. Although it has already been considered in the College as a proposal for enlargement, which is due to be tabled by Sunday, until yesterday, until 12 noon, I must inform you that I cannot put this proposal to the vote for a simple reason, because I have to respect the rules of procedure and legality. I am actually ahead of this meeting, and this will be the subject of Friday, because I believe that some things cannot be included in another session, actually under the question of the confidant, if I may say so. And I will act impartially, regardless of what may happen here or otherwise, regardless of which side the initiatives come from. If it is not possible to place something at the meeting, it is not possible to place it at the meeting. That is why, as I say, I will not put this to the vote. We are moving on to the agenda. Procedural? [[No, no, ……]] Explanation. That's it. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, dear colleagues! Our Group of Members will not support today's agenda. This is not because, on 7 May, we have tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting for the discharge of the President and on 11 May, for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Given that the President of the National Assembly does not wish to order this extraordinary meeting, he does not wish to order it, despite the fact that this task is imposed on him by Article 85 of the Constitution and Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have decided not to support this agenda in our Group. 85. Article 85 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly shall work at regular and extraordinary meetings. Regular and extraordinary meetings shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly. It shall convene an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic so require." This is a provision in the Constitution which allows a minority in the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting which cannot be voted on by the coalition. However, contrary to this provision, the President of the National Assembly has decided not to convene these meetings to discuss the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. We believe and believe that this decision is contrary to this Article of the Constitution and also Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which governs the same matter. And since in this way, and not for the first time, it prevents the opposition and Members - qualified signatories to request the convening of an extraordinary meeting and a debate on certain content in the National Assembly - this meeting, because this item is scheduled for a regular session and not for an extraordinary meeting, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since this is an explanation for the voice, we can't argue with it, and at least I can. That's why we're moving on. [[...]] Please explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian National Party's delegation also signed a request for an extraordinary meeting to discuss the work of the President of the National Assembly. And just like my forerunner, we will be voting against this agenda. For the extraordinary meeting being reclassified to a regular meeting is an unacceptable intervention in the Rules of Procedure, an unacceptable intervention in the Constitution and in all democratic principles. I think this way you're pushing the opposition not where it is, but you're just pushing us into illegality where you want us to go. You do not respect any intentions of the opposition, no demands of the opposition, and I think this is totally unacceptable. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. This week I will be allowed to say everything about me, so the hunt is open from the first minute forward. Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 25. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the agenda for the 17th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members! Respectable ministers, government representatives, citizens and citizens! Allow me to recall the 20th anniversary of the establishment and operation of the Manevre structure of national protection, project and organisation, which, by securing and defending the self-sustaining process, has made a key contribution to the realization of the independent Slovenian state. Events that marked the direction of the desired future development of Slovenia in the late 1980s, including the first free multilateral elections, were expected to run into a sharp response from the central Yugoslav authorities. To suppress the idea of the design of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Cali, an order was issued in January 1990 for a thorough inspection of weapons and explosives stored outside JLA warehouses. Just prior to the oath of the first Slovenian democratically elected Government, an order was issued on 15 May 1990 on the immediate movement of weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets from civilian warehouses of the Territorial Defence in the JLA warehouse, which practically meant the disarmament of the Territorial Defence. The disarmament of the Territorial Defence or the confiscation of weapons was contrary to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The idea of realizing its own statehood has already matured so much that disarmament among all those who knew about it took place in secret, sparked a bitter response and real rebellion. They were aware and we were aware that the self-reliance process without its own armed forces would not be able to be protected and successfully carried out. Despite the loss of most of its weapons by the territorial defence in the disarmament campaign, the 16 municipalities were able to prevent the withdrawal of weapons. The security of the process of independence required a lot of courage, effort and ingenuity. From an unplanned and spontaneous resistance to disarmament, an independent predecessor of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Manevre structure of national protection, began to emerge from the current system of national protection, which allowed for the joint operation of the army and militia. Under the leadership of the Secretary of Defence and the Secretary of the Interior, an excellently organised armed structure of more than 20,000 members was created. The manoeuvre structure of national protection was only three months after the disputed disarmament with close cooperation with the special unit and a special unit of Slovenian militia capable of protecting the historical process of Slovenian independence and maintaining the emerging independent Slovenia against an armed enemy attack. It was an extremely well-designed and planned action. Preparations for the self-sustainment war later took place almost entirely on the basis of plans that were drawn up during the period of operation of the Manuverian National Protection Structure. Your Honor! The crucial time of Slovenian independence and the realization of our daring dreams about our own country marked and enabled many extraordinary events and actions. One of these must have been the project of the Manevre National Protection Structure. By rejecting an order to disarm the Territorial Defence, the foundations for the formation of the defence forces of the emerging State were established. It was a courageous act of disobedience, whose risks the participants probably did not fully realize at the time. Armed with a high national conscience and an unwavering desire to secure the homeland, they carried out an act of great patriotism. The process of designing its own country and achieving independence would probably be questionable without the establishment of the Manevre National Protection Structure. The memory of these important events in the past fades over time, but all these risky, bold, and patriotic acts must never be forgotten because of the extraordinaryness and actions of themselves and because of the journey they represent to us and to the next generation. This is an irrefutable and tangible proof of what the Slovenian people are capable of, at least if we are united and committed to a common goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u11	Dear fellow Members and Members, we are moving on to 1. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is asked by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question today, the President of the Government, Minister or Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he remains in the oral reply. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance Dorian Marušič, Minister of Health, Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four parliamentary questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will first be asked by Jakob Preseknik, the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear President of the Government, in recent days, we are witnessing the consequences of the rejection of the arbitration agreement in respect of the referendum on your part. In doing so, you use rhetoric that already limits the threats and intimidation of Slovenian citizens without giving any credible information and arguments. Such work to support the arbitration agreement is irresponsible and unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Your intimidation in the Slovenian People's Party Group is understood only as a psychological attempt to influence the feelings of voters, an attempt to convince them, on the basis of fear, to support the arbitration agreement. However, Slovenian citizens have the right to decide at the referendum on their conscience and without unjustified threats. Even on the plebiscite when deciding for the independent and sovereign state, Slovenians did not have the support of the international public, there were such and different threats, including international isolation, non-recognition of the state and so on. And what of these threats has come true? Nothing. Nothing at all. Slovenians have not been intimidated and we have courageously decided to live within our own country, which they later recognised in spite of previous threats in the international community, a country that is today a full member of the European Union and also of the NATO Union. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President of the Government: On the basis of what information, data, arguments and collected notices to the Slovenian public in the event of the rejection of an arbitration agreement at the referendum, do you injure Slovenia with international isolation and threats to peace and stability in South-Eastern Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u14	Dear Member, Mr President, the High House! First of all, to remember later, each of us has a political style. My father was never like that to try to convince someone of his right or his political beliefs with a threat; this is a bad journey. The conviction under compulsion does not last long, it is not sincere and will sooner or later fall under the arguments of the future. However, as President of the Government, honourable Member, I am obliged to draw attention to the consequences of such or other decisions at the referendum. It was already that we were going citizens and citizens to the referendum after 20 years of the independent state, that everyone could think out loud "for" or "against" to do this without any fear - I think in this sense Mr Oman said at the celebration yesterday that we could consider this to be a great gain because 20 years ago it was not, it was fear of voting differently than most would have thought. This can give all of us the satisfaction that after 20 years we have the opportunity, the opportunity, the privilege to decide, as a mature democracy, on our conscience at the referendum, on such important matters as an arbitration agreement. I believe that it has a positive impact on Slovenia, in particular allowing us to reach a fair agreement on the establishment of a border between Croatia and Slovenia, to strengthen the reputation and image of the Republic of Slovenia as a country to resolve difficult issues in a peaceful way and in a common good, for our own interests and for the common good, to open our way to South-Eastern Europe and to act as an example there. It is said that we return to the position that Slovenia once had at the beginning of the 1990s, and this is that the country has been an example to others in this part of Europe. What is it that inspires me when I remind the public of the negative consequences of the argument? It's an experience. Member of the Commission of the European Parliament for relations with Croatia of all 18, 19 years, whether I have been a Member here, or whether I have been the President of this High House, or whether I have been the Vice-President of the Commission of the European Parliament for relations with Croatia, and now as President of the Government, especially now as President of the Government, teaches me that we have also had a bit of luck - this is always on the brave side, and the decision for arbitration is a matter of courage and understanding at the same time, also of heart, I say - we have had a bit of luck since it opened up to us, and for a short time, a window of historic opportunities, when Croatia was ahead of a choice, whether it should continue to stubbornly reject the desire and interest of the Republic of Slovenia to settle the border issue before its entry into the European Union, or whether it should be decided that we do so and that it also has a green light on our side and can peacefully conclude negotiations. Experience tells me that at the right time, we have achieved the best for Slovenia at the right time, which is possible. Not to forget later, I have one parallel in front of me now, and I don't know if she's the luckiest, but she's turning her mind through me. By solving this big problem, we have not solved all the problems with Croatia by resolving the border dispute, but all the economic and social problems, all the solutions to these problems will be nothing or nothing if we do not solve this problem. We must close this "fertilized wound" of relations between the two countries, nations and not the return to a purely human level so that we can fully devote ourselves to prosperity. So no threats, just a warning that the international community understood Slovenia to this extent to help it reach an arbitration agreement. If we reject it, we will do a great service to Croatia, the status quo, which is unacceptable to us, will be moral power on the side of Croatia, not on the side of Slovenia, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] The international community will no longer understand us, and we will find ourselves in some position of isolation. [[...]] It seems to me like it's an experience that I'm talking about and what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President of the Government. Notwithstanding your disagreement with me, this is my assessment that you have used some kind of threat in this regard, but you have certainly warned of the possibility of endangering peace and stability in South-Eastern Europe and I will say from other cases where the European Union does not actually react to any violent or any way of threatening or warning, in cases that are elsewhere in the world, even in the Balkans, such as the case of Greece in Macedonia. However, Slovenia should not use its interests to achieve its objectives. Nor did anyone threaten, nor did anyone question the extent to which those countries have not ratified the Lisbon Treaties for a very long time, which is an extremely important document for the continuation of co-existence in the European Union. And as far as peace and stability are concerned in some part of the world, surely all countries in a certain area are those in charge and called upon to preserve this peace and to do everything they can to ensure that this peace and stability will not be compromised. Even in South-Eastern Europe and in the Western Balkans, there is no doubt that other countries must do their utmost to ensure that this stability and peace remains. Therefore, Slovenia's claim for the rights it has at the border with the neighbouring country is, of course, legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u18	There'll be no misunderstandings. If it had happened that the negotiations made possible by some principled agreement with President Kosor in Trakoszczany were not as successful as they were, I would not have signed the agreement. Because I would appreciate that this is not a good and successful solution to the problem and that this does not take away the reason I said - that it was worth paying attention at the beginning of the mandate to solve this problem, because otherwise, my colleague Presečnik, there would be a situation where the issue of Croatia would become thickened. Does the continuation of the blockage of accession negotiations, because my question, if I may also allow it at your address, is: will we block Croatia if the arbitration agreement is not confirmed at the referendum? If we don't, then I'm going to ask who: Why did we spend so much time trying to get rid of the reasons for the blockade, and that's forerunners in Croatia's accession documentation? If we postpone by blocking all the way to the accession treaty, I ask you what moral attitude we will block the Republic of Croatia and force it to conclude a new agreement, as promised by those who are against the current arbitration agreement, if she can say so, look at the ratified agreement that was finally written on your skin. This was the proposal of Rehn2. We've accepted it, ratified it with a 2/3 majority, you've rejected it, don't force us into any third agreements now, because we won't agree to it. And the international community would accept these arguments, czech, without offense to the Slovenians, we have taken your hand, we have understood in particular the fact that your exit to the open sea is of vital interest to you. This has now been explicitly imposed on the arbitral tribunal. If you refuse to do so, you do not have our support and our alliance. We do not want to support countries that block enlargement. That's how moral strength will be on Croatia's side. In addition, not only moral power, but mainly interest in maintaining status quo, distributed Piran Bay, their location on the southern coast of Dragonje, Hotiza etc. So we have more than five, six reasons why we can see too, I'll say, some fear in the sequences, awareness of the sequences if we reject the arbitration agreement, and what is the alternative to how we will act. I have never heard a convincing argument about how Slovenia will act if we reject what is really good for us. Once again, I would not propose this agreement if I did not first and above all settle the good issue of the border, then relations with the neighbours, and finally raise the reputation of Slovenia. And now you can finally [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti, the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. It is damn sad that at the time of the 20th establishment of the Manevre structure we bury the Republic of Slovenia in just two segments. It is an arbitration agreement and assistance to Greece. If I were to ask about arbitration, I would speak in Croatian, which Mr. Prime Minister probably understands better than Slovenian, at least it shows that way, but still, I will ask in Slovenian. The Slovenian Court of Auditors controls the use and control of European funds, such money that Slovenia draws from European resources. To be exact, in millimeters, it goes into centimetres. Who's gonna control this money we're gonna throw out the window to Greece? We will give Greece 400 million, probably even more, euros for which, Mr Prime Minister, you will rent a loan that we will pay in Slovenia, which will be paid by people who barely live, living from day to day. But you don't even care. And that's what I'd like to ask. In what way will you guarantee the return of this money? The fact is, Greece didn't put any, no mortgage on nothing. I think it would make sense for Slovenia, that the state of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia require Greece, what I know, what insurance at least by giving a mortgage on some three Greek islands. Why not?? After all, we could also determine those islands, and among them we could take one completely naked, plantless, and export those Slovenian policies that sell and destroy the Slovenian country up there. I think we could at least ask for that. I think the people in Slovenia would agree. They're hungry, students don't have money to survive, to study, you're going to hire loans in the amount of infinity, because this is just the beginning. You know, you know very well that we won't get a dime from Greece. The country has cheated on the European Union to this day. They had 13th salary, 14th salary, 15th salary, supplement for even going straight to work, you'll be with our money, with the money of our taxpayers "futrali" of some scumbags and cheats. I think it's totally embarrassing, and that's not how the country is run. So please say: Will you request any guarantee from Greece? I told you what was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, you spoke about the citizens and citizens of a friendly country. I'd like to ask you [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Please use the appropriate language. [[..]] The word is given by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u22	On Friday and Saturday, the previous one, and this I had the responsibility and opportunity to participate in the meeting of the heads of government and the member states of the euro area. What surprised me at this meeting was that some of my distinguished colleagues were talking about the history of this meeting, which is usually not the practice of them, especially in the kind of meeting going on behind closed doors, is not trying to make any effect on public opinion. What was the history of this meeting? In the case that the European Union had to, the Eurocone Council was headed by the President of the European Council, you know that the European Union was already helping three countries, I would not list, but it was helping them because of problems in the banking and financial system, three Eastern European countries and one of them is Baltic, so it was necessary to make the following decision: whether we are acting selfishly and not lending any loans, and under certain conditions we are risking that the Greek banking and financial system is collapsing, which is actually starting to have a domino effect that would continue in some other countries, which I will also not list, and we are probably risking the collapse of the euro currency. This would also mean a rapid and profound deterioration of the economic and financial crisis across the European Union with unpredictable consequences. Or we will act in solidarity, in part for selfish reasons, and help Greece under certain conditions to get out of this crisis and that there would be no danger of dominoes starting to fall for Greece. As it is said, I would not like to mention countries because they themselves did not want to be mentioned for obvious reasons. We've decided on solidarity with Greece. If I reconsider the decision of the European Union and the IMF to help the three Member States of the European Union, by the way, we are talking a lot about how bad Slovenia is doing in this crisis. On the contrary, we belong to a group of those countries that have recorded positive results in at least the last two quarters, except for two, one is a deficit; the other is a level of progress in competitiveness. Otherwise, Slovenia is doing well with economic and other social indicators and we are counted among the most dynamic countries. Why am I telling you this? Because it's very important what a country's overall credit rating is. The rating of Slovenia is good. We are among those countries that are not already in the euro area in a crisis such as Greece, nor are they on the brink of a crisis such as some other countries, and are not outside the euro area, but are in the European Union, and are already receiving financial assistance from the European Union and the IMF. We don't. Slovenia itself has a strong commitment to the fates of crisis resolution and, for once, a common credit rating with a warning to the deficit and a warning that we need to raise the conditions of competitiveness remains, in fact, very high. And very few prime ministers spoke that night, including me, more than once. I have sent a letter to the President of the European Council, Van Rompuy, in which, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I have requested a few conditions for the assistance of Greece. This was entered in the final document. Greece has the conditions it must meet to receive our assistance. It will be controlled by how you meet the conditions. And the Slovenian government will, I said, withdraw its assistance if it does not comply with these conditions. But you too, this high National Assembly, when deciding on the guarantee law, will have to decide whether it is better for the Slovenian national interests, economic, political and other, for Greece to fall and with it a whole range of other countries that are on the verge of the crisis, or whether we are helping Greece and trying to save Europe from the great economic crisis that would sink us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u23	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u24	I am pleased that you are talking about the present of Greece, where they have an average salary of 1,200 euros, while we have 800 euros. They're in big trouble, we're blooming and we're having a great time. We will keep the Slovenians a certain reputation, and this reputation of excellent servants who obey without a word; as we always worship Europe. This is a rescue of German investments in Greece and a rescue of Greek multibillionaires. And that's what we're gonna do, and that's what we're gonna do. You're saying that Slovenia will withdraw its assistance. How? We'll give them, we'll get two, three slaps and they'll tell us, be quiet. You will then be no longer prime minister, and others will have to deal with what is already tragic today, about 500,000 people on the brink of poverty. But you don't care. You are interested in Greece, without any guarantees that we will get anything back, because we will not get it back; it knows the whole world. The financial ministers and the Presidents of the governments of the European Union also know this, but they have accepted this because they will benefit, not Slovenia. Slovenia will not benefit from this, except for the loss. Unless it works in this area as it is in Slovenia: protecting thieves, frauds, drug dealers, as I read today that you will buy that house for the investigation office from Mr Pogačar, even though it is still on the lease, which is very funny and very strange, confused with all economic logic. Unless the press wrote it wrong, at least that's what it says in Finance. I think you're going to sink Slovenia, and it seems that you're going to be able to do it in a short time, not in two years until the end of your term of office, but significantly earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u26	Well, when the storm started and large and small boats, among them Slovenia, found themselves in this stormy area, some thought that we would be among the first to sink, which did not happen. Unlike these forecasts, Slovenia is holding relatively well without underestimating the problems we have. I mentioned two in particular, and the Government must pay due attention, which is why the advice on the Hill should be given. We need to find strategic solutions for these two problems, deficits and raising the threshold of competitiveness. Otherwise, for the first time, colleague Jelinčič, we need to know that Slovenia's membership in the eurozone has benefited us in times of crisis and has reduced our economic and social problems. Secondly, that a possible breakup of the euro area would not benefit us, but would do us harm. Thirdly, it is only such a European currency that is solid and stable for us, which means, as I said at the meeting, when the proposal was made that Trichet or the European Central Bank should take more seriously the instructions of governments when dealing with interest rates and so on, that by no means at all, I said not. The Central Bank must act in such a way as to ensure the value and stability of this currency. So it was decided in the end. Everyone knew that it was very difficult for Slovenia, as for some other countries, to make that decision. You said big countries have investments in Greece. Slovenia doesn't have that many. We made the choice so much more cautiously. We have 0.48% of the share that will be earmarked by the euro area countries to help Greece. It's a fair deal. And we have -- this is what we have done -- the right to judge whether the Greeks will comply with the reform measures they owe to us if they want our help. So Greek Prime Minister Papandreou has already announced the measures and must now take them. How difficult it is, ladies and gentlemen, to take action, and you know it best. Even those for whom the Government is very competitive are always at great risk of not encountering social understanding or understanding the social partners. And that's how it is in Greece. I have to tell you, when we talked to Chancellor Merklov and the President of the Dutch Government, Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the Luxembourg Government, who is coming here, we talked about what to do, in fact, that the Greeks would be successful in eliminating, as you correctly stated, some measures that are truly unacceptable, because a Slovenian worker cannot pay Greek, a Slovenian student cannot pay Greek student, a Slovenian pensioner cannot pay Greek pension or a pension. It will be very difficult for Greece [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal to Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much. These answers just proved how hot this topic is and how incomplete the concepts of the government in this area are. The fact is that the Prime Minister himself found that Slovenian students should not pay Greek and Slovenian workers of Greek and Slovenian pensioners. But we'll do it. And given what Mr. Prime Minister has said, he sees a tragic end or, in other words, he obviously accepts the fact that we will not get the money back in Slovenia. I was talking about, not the possible collapse of the European currency, but more. I was talking about mortgages on our loan, a guarantee for our loan. What guarantee do we get from the Greeks? None. That they may give up their fifteenth wages, they will retain their 13th and 14th. That doesn't make any sense. And that kind of work leads to the collapse of the country. If Slovenia adheres relatively well, the emphasis on the word is relative. "Puffed" is about five hundred times more than we were "puffed" in the former Yugoslavia. In the former Yugoslavia. The ones that everyone was spitting at, the way we were throwing money at Kosovo, and everything else. Today we throw money left, right, up, down. There's a lot more to the population. I ask myself, Prime Minister, how can you so easily guarantee all these things? What do you guarantee that? Or perhaps with your life? People have given their lives to support this small country. That it's gonna be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u29	Mr Jelinčič, the President can no longer answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u30	Can I say to the end already? Do you always have to interrupt me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u31	If it isn't, but it really can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u32	If possible, you interrupt me and I ask you to stop this practice once. I hope that this practice will soon cease, because not only in the opposition, but also in the coalition, they have problems with you. Don't allow a democratic discourse, don't let me say anything. And that's fucking sad. And this is how the Slovenian government works, and this is how you can see what the Slovenian government does. He's selling Slovenian country. If that, sir, the President of the National Assembly, is not your country, that is your problem. This is my country, my children's country and many more in Slovenia. I am therefore concerned and therefore, in accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, I request a debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 18 May 2010, in the framework of the votes. A question for the Prime Minister will be presented by Zvonko Černač, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u34	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The key issue of the arbitration agreement is: Will we preserve or lose our sea? Last week, on the question of whether Croatia agreed to get Slovenia, in our opinion, to maintain territorial contact with the open sea, you have repeatedly stated that this was the case. You said, quote: "My proposal to President Kosoreva was: 'We need a solution, a just solution to the border, and of course this means for us in particular and in particular the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, and you need entry into the European Union, which is also in our interest." End of quote. Your statement was immediately denied by the Croatian foreign ministry, which stated that Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor had promised you nothing but at least territorial contact with the open sea. Your statement is also denied by the Croatian declaration, which was adopted as soon as the November agreement was signed last year that nothing in the agreement could be considered to be the consent of the Republic of Croatia at the request of Slovenia after territorial contact with the open sea. If the Croatian Prime Minister had agreed to the territorial contact of Slovenia with the high seas, then surely Croatia would not have accepted such a statement. More. What is new in the last message of the Croatian Foreign Ministry is that this Croatian declaration was accepted, at least so written, in agreement with the Slovenian side, that is to say with you. Slovenia would, on the basis of an agreement, lose, forever and irreparably, part of its sovereignty, an important part of its sovereignty: they would lose the sea. Because the bay without a direct exit to the open sea, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer a sea, it is just a natural swimming pool and nothing more. It is becoming increasingly obvious, and today we have heard in response to my fellow Member's question that Croatia had two negotiators, Slovenia had none. That is why I ask you, Mr President of the Government: When and where did the Croatian President of the Government give you assurances of the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea? Who was there at the time? Was this statement or assurance given in writing, or was it given at a coffee shop or at an informal meeting? Where and in what way has this assurance been given, and what legal significance, if any, does it have to do with the provisions of the arbitration agreement which say that nothing that does not appear in it can be taken into account when maintaining the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u36	On the anger or misunderstanding of some in this Chamber, I must say very honestly that it is my business to succeed in the referendum on the arbitration agreement and to maintain that great trust that has been established between the two governments, which we have achieved very painfully and without which such success would not be possible. Therefore, I will try to avoid all statements that would in fact be in my favour, in favour of the arguments for an arbitration agreement which, on the other hand, would give rise to those circles, political and professional, and to the public's work in Croatia in order to influence that unsuspecting part of the Slovenian public, which has always been sensitive to what the Croatian side says. If Croatia is satisfied with something, it certainly cannot be good for Slovenia. Since this is partly happening, I have to be very careful about this. Because one part of our public is sensitive to this, if it is good for Croatia, then it is not for us. If Croatia says something in its message, it is sacred, surely so, our side is already hiding something, and certainly the thing is not right. Let us now look at things as far as they can be presented to maintain great confidence, first between us and President Government, between the two governments and not least one trust between the state and the atmosphere that has been established. In Trakoščany, an informal agreement was reached with the President of the Croatian Government, at least as I understand it, or events could not then follow, that a solution that is mutually beneficial should be found. I then, before and after that said that I see as a mutual benefit the solution of the border issue, and there is no doubt that the vital interest in resolving this issue is the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. This did not have to be said very openly and clearly, as perhaps today one of the Croatian or Slovenian media is being broadcast. It was enough to say, I suggest we go back to the negotiating table to proposal Rehn2. And in the proposal Rehn2 was point 3.B, the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. We will give the green light to continue your negotiations with the European Commission. In fact, this is one credible proposal that I am making for thought. And this proposal was, in principle, adopted without the need to go into detail. We all knew what we were talking about. On 16 June, Foreign Minister Jandrokovic announced that Croatia was leaving the negotiating process led by Commissioner Rehn. They left because in the second proposal, which was amended, it was also imposed on the arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. So just the opposite of the situation that we are witnessing now; and this is that the Croatian side of Slovenia does not recognise that it has contact with the open sea, but a reason for its behaviour so that we can sail with passenger, cargo and military ships as essentially a service right when it gives us free passage to the open sea without reservation. This is their explanation, which can be seen inside, which we disagree with and therefore we would like to have a solution, not a situation like that. Because you know what? If this arbitration agreement falls and you do not negotiate until Croatia's entry into the European Union of a better agreement - and I tell you that no one will, because it will not be possible - it will remain in a state as it is. And that's essentially a definitive fact. In 20 years, the legal state of "de facto" will be interpreted as the state of "de jure". And that's what the Constitutional Court reminds us of. So, in fact, if I may, Mr Chernač, answer your question. My proposal was a matter of one thorough reflection in Ljubljana, it was given as a principle proposal, it was a first meeting when it was not known whether trust would be established on both sides or not. There was a proposal that was mutually beneficial, because otherwise problems could not be solved. What are we actually interested in preventing Croatia's 'per se' on its way to the European Union? We don't have that kind of interest! We want Croatia in the European Union, but of course Croatia must meet some of our expectations, which we consider legitimate in the negotiating process, and Chapter 31 has been used as a chapter, where the border problem must also be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Chernač? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u38	Dear Prime Minister! Croatia is approaching the European Union and not Slovenia. It is up to her to remove the obstacles that prevent her from entering. Of course, Slovenia is on this path without hindrance, it is not and will never be. I asked you a question: When and how did the Croatian Prime Minister promise you territorial contact with the open sea? That promise was gone. She wasn't there, Prime Minister! And there was no guarantee of Croatia that Slovenia would maintain or get territorial contact with the open sea after you. On the contrary! Following the signing of the Arbitration Agreement, an explicit subsequent statement by Croatia that nothing in this Agreement can be considered as the landing of Croatia on the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which means, inter alia, a very clear and public orientation of the arbitrators. Moreover, the latest statement by the Croatian Foreign Ministry also stated that, if I simplify that no distinguished specialist in international law, nor those who did not agree with the proposal for an arbitration agreement, it did not reveal the possibility for Slovenia to have territorial contact with the open sea on the basis of an arbitration agreement. And that is the essence of the problem that the agreement, as signed, does not allow this, even if the arbitrators want to do so. Slovenia today has a sea, has a window into the world, ships sail unobstructed in and out of our port of Koper to international waters. By implementing the Arbitration Agreement, we would lose this sea forever. And what is called "junction" and which is defined by the agreement in point 3b, after the drawdown of the border line on the basis of international law somewhere in the middle of the Gulf of Piran, is only a kind of harmless transition from Slovenian to international waters or to the open sea. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister once again: Was this Croatian declaration that nothing in the agreement could be considered a territorial contact of ours with the high seas in line with you? And I will ask you a question, though I know the answer in advance: Will you persist and separate the Slovenian nation? Or you'll admit to a mistake and [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u40	At the crossroads, while at all costs I reach agreement on how to settle matters with Croatia or to solve the problem of relations with Croatia for a fair price, I have decided on a second path. The government and I have solved this problem. It is now, after most of you have confirmed this in this high assembly, that people are following or rejecting it. So, we decided to solve the problem. You finally asked me to get out of this because we're separated. It's okay. We usually go to referendums because we have different opinions, not because we have the same opinion, unless it's plebiscite, which happened in 1990. And, as one of Slovenia's independent age has said, let us hope that the Slovenian nation will never have to be as united about the fundamental issues of its future as it needed at that time. When did the promise come? And when was the agreement reached? On 11 September 2009, in Ljubljana, on a visit by the President of the Government, before we went to a press conference where the President of the Government read a statement, a unilateral statement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the documents did not prejudge the determination of the border and a number of other additional statements in this letter sent by the President to the country or to the President of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, and in an agreement which was not published, was also confirmed by me at the press conference, that both sides were returning to the negotiating table and that the subject of the negotiations was the Rehn2. Rehn2 meant in point 3b the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. You know that then there was a situation where it was very unclear whether the internal political situation in one country or another would result in this agreement falling again. In Slovenia, it was said that we had issued national interests because it was not known whether this commitment by Croatia was actually to return to the negotiating process and that the starting point of Rehn2 was real or not, because this record was not, but it was a commitment, so we also had witnesses in this negotiation process. And, as you know, since a matter reached a hot spot, I requested that the Croatian side, in a special statement by 10 a.m. on Tuesday, when the Foreign Policy and European Affairs Committee began its meeting, confirm in writing that it would continue at the starting points of Rehn2. One minute to 10 a.m., a fax came with content that confirmed that this was an integral part of the agreement we reached with regard to Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u41	Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u42	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to my question, if this proposal is adopted, we will discuss this after the referendum. Today a few things have been said here that really concern me. This statement was not explicitly denied that you had been informed of this unilateral statement by Croatia. In addition, it is one of the most important issues that we have decided at the referendums since independence. There was a price speech here today. There is no price to pay for this question. The question of our sovereignty at sea has no price. Policy has always been unified in the majority of such matters so far. When it came to the European Union, when it came to NATO and, most of all, 20 years ago, when we decided plebiscitely for our own country. Even then, there were individuals, some sitting in your cabinet, a respected prime minister, today, who feared us to eat weed if we were to conquer ourselves. Others feared that we would be an isolated country and that we would not be able to travel to the world. None of this happened. Slovenia has become a sovereign, independent state. And today, after 20 years, it is the first time that the ruling policy sends one of the most important issues, the question of the essential part of our sovereignty, the question of whether we will preserve the sea, whether we will lose it forever, to the referendum by separating it from the question, instead of uniting the Slovenian nation on this issue. In such circumstances, the issue of the arbitration agreement will continue to separate the Slovenian people, regardless of what the decision will be. Which is bad for Slovenia as well as for Croatia and for Europe as a whole. I must say that in these days, there is also a strange side-event campaign. The public administration and government's website shows that this campaign goes beyond the provisions of the applicable legislation on taxpayers' costs, since the government is not and cannot be the organiser of this electoral campaign at all, and publishes the content of the electoral campaign, in this case, to confirm the agreement. He deliberately manipulates various interpretations on this issue. The Slovenian public is being misled, although it is possible to talk about the problem in a very understandable way and allow me to say it myself. What's the point? It is the two neighbours who, if I simplify, today both have unhindered access to the public road to international waters. They've decided that they're going to divide this question. But not by keeping them both in direct contact with the public road, i.e. international waters. One neighbor agreed that he would walk or sail through a neighbor’s plot in the future to public waters. Let us ask ourselves, which citizen of this country would do the same on his own land? I think that this issue calls for a debate in the National Assembly, even in view of everything else that has been said today by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 18 May 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Anton Anderlič, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u44	Dear Mr. President. As today and apparently for several weeks now, there are many questions in the public that require answers and are not clarified. We can even hear some speakers who, with the rhetoric that they are using, are reminded of some agreement that they cannot be, or of the assessment that only those who have enough "deservation" in sayings, "for history", have the right to say what is right and what should be done with regard to the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement. So it is just the opposite, as it is a desire to present all the arguments to explain all the open questions and if we have already gone to the referendum - many of us think that this is a question that could be resolved by the National Assembly and the policy itself - but if we have already gone to the referendum, then there must be arguments "for" and "against" on the table without all the rhetoric that is involved and even calls for some unacceptable behaviour from the arsenal of the past. The 12 referendums, which we had a great deal of weight in Slovenia and with such large, not divided positions, but with such great opposition only "for" and "against" but not with the read text of the law and the arbitration agreement itself, as we now submit to the referendum, we have not yet had. I'm sure there's still a lot to explain at this time. Every opportunity is real, and the government probably has the right to explain why. Parliament has the right, at least those who voted in favour of this law have the right to say what convinced us and why we think that someone third could better, better and definitively solve this issue instead of us. I'm sure we can't get any less. We can get more. I ask you: Is it true that arbitration will first decide the border on land and sea and then determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea? This is one of the questions that appears and does not have a clear answer and is very important for citizens and citizens before they decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much for that question. In some ways, it is the continuation of the previous or the debate which means the continuation of the previous, as they themselves have found, Mr Anderlič, that people will decide on a very important issue and it is right to be aware of the consequences of their decision. Once again, I have to say the position of the Slovenian Government: if they decide on an arbitration agreement, they will decide on something good that promises a fair line between a country that is better than an existing situation that could grow into a permanent one, because probably other solutions will not be able to reach the negotiators, not the others. Perhaps someone sees a solution in the blockade of Croatia or during accession negotiations or in the ratification of the accession treaty, then they must be aware of all other conventions. And I'm not threatening anything here, I'm just pointing out the consequences of such a situation. The very important question you are asking is because there are a lot of unfortunate and inaccurate interpretations in the public, how and why Slovenia, we say, will be contacted by the advocates of the arbitration agreement with the open sea: because this is imposed on the arbitral tribunal in Article 3. It is imposed on the arbitral tribunal, without further judgment, but by one judgment on what will be the border on land and on the sea to apply international law, the principle of justice, the relevant circumstances to be applied when we speak of the principle of justice, in the original is "equity", when we speak of point 3b, the contact of Slovenia with the high sea, we speak of "junction", because it is a word that means something when it is interpreted in international law. So there will be no three verdicts that will set a limit first on land, then on the sea and then on regimes. No! No! The judgment will be one, and therefore one article, which, of course, is divided by us and our perseverance, as it is, that in point 3b exactly, can clearly see what the task of the arbitral tribunal is. And this is to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. And all of this will be the subject of a single judgment of an arbitral tribunal, which, unlike The Hague, is not a court that would have been fully brought before other judges, to whom we have no influence. And another thing, if I may, Mr Anderlich, take advantage of your question, in the Court of Justice in The Hague can be notified as interested in another country's discussion, for example, Italy, 'nota bene', for example, Italy! To the arbitration court - no! The arbitral tribunal will not consider others as agreements between the President of the Slovenian Government and the President of the Croatian Government and unilateral declarations in the ratification process have no legal effect on the text of the agreement. So it will be decided in one decision to set a limit, which must be such as to find contact with Slovenia with open international waters. Why this issue is so complicated - because, under the Convention on International Maritime Law, it is so possible for countries to declare the width of the territorial sea 12 and not more nautical miles. Point T-5, the famous T-5, is 15 miles away. It is therefore a great task for the arbitral tribunal to find some "modeus vivendi" that will allow Slovenia to contact international waters, even though the so-called T-5 is 15 nautical miles from our land. Thus, you see, ladies and gentlemen, it has been very complicated, difficult and difficult to negotiate. We led them in difficult situations when other problems needed to be addressed at the same time. But with some sense and courage, we have come to some solution, Mr Anderlich, which undoubtedly assures us that we will be what we have lost since 25. 6. 1991 forward, gradually, step by step gain back and that it will not only be "outie posidetis de facto", but that it will be "outie posidetis de iure" because this will decide the arbitral tribunal in one sentence, where the border on land and on the sea will be set and at the same time also the contact of Slovenia with international waters.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u47	Would you like an additional answer, Mr. Anderlich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u48	All these debates, as well as various conventions, celebrations and the like, also make it possible for all legal professions, especially international legal experts from Slovenia, as well as some others, to oppose and have great concerns about what Slovenia will get or that it is harmful for Slovenia. I think that in the Slovenian professional public, as well as international law, polarisation, as it is elsewhere, however, it was heard that the Government already has, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a certain procession, which includes, in fact, those who are for, and those who are against, lawyers. Clearly, it would be foolish and almost unacceptable to call for a uniform position in the profession because it has its legitimacy and so forth. However, when it comes to reasoning when it comes to simple citizens and those who will decide, we know what this profession thinks, how it is teamed up, whether near the government, the foreign ministry is doing everything to ensure that all this profession is appropriate and to tell everyone, not only when they are arguing that one will tell one truth when the other is speaking, will tell the other truth, which is the biggest problem, and that is why I mentioned a rhetoric earlier. In short, I ask further: Is it possible to say in these current activities that the legal profession supporting this arbitration agreement is uniform in such a part that we can absolutely believe it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u49	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u50	If I make a mistake now, because I'm going to name some people and actually do more damage than profit, I'm going to regret it. However, I would not like to give the impression that I am talking about a large part of Slovenia and also part of the foreign - those who have been asked - defending an arbitration agreement, I will allow myself, in the hope that this statement is correct if it is not, I apologize in advance, to appoint some prominent international lawyers in Slovenia who are in favour of an arbitration agreement. First of all, to remember later, I think it is very important that all international lawyers from the International Legal Department of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana support an arbitration agreement, all of them. Next, I hope that someone doesn't mind that Professor Danilo Türk is also the president of the state. Prof. Dr. Daniel Türk is not only a respected international lawyer, but he has an extremely important diplomatic experience in the peaceful resolution of disputes. I hope the names of lawyers such as Shkrkova, Dr. Bohta, Dr. Sancinov mean something to Dr. Nine, Dr. Brglez, Dr. Bučar, Mag. Guilty, Dr. Ude. I'm afraid Patrick has this bad luck that he's a reputable lawyer, but he's also a minister, or I'd quote him. In short, I want to say that what some say is not true is that all international lawyers speak against an arbitration agreement. That's not true. It is true that a large part of the international legal profession in Slovenia stands for an arbitration agreement and was partly, as important as it seemed to the Government, also consulted, but you must understand that it was necessary to do so quietly, that this was to be done discreetly and with the great confidence of these people. And maybe one more thing to say. Part of the international legal profession was also consulted. In my opinion, he was consulted among the best in the international legal profession on this issue. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] No, no! [[..]] He may be "second best", but he's not the best. We were fortunate enough to have received a gentleman who has advised us all this time very honestly and that when we were in the midst of doubts, we could rely heavily on his judgment, for which he has always taken a very long time, he and his group of assistants who helped him in this assessment. And when we got the last version of the agreement, I said, this is a really fantastic agreement. From here on in, I'll say the story of a fantastic day in Stockholm.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Transport, Mr Patrick Vlačič, will answer Mr Mag's question. Franca Žnidaršič on the use of the project of new approaches to reduce the number of accidents and the question of France Kek regarding the completion of the motorway cross. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. You've already asked a question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you so much for asking. We have actually received these proposals from Mr Mueller, a number of proposals, not just this light one. Among other things, one proposal is to install a special air bag on railway locomotives to protect the collision of a vehicle in which a locomotive would crash. You know, the solutions proposed by Mr Mueller are novelty and could be introduced in two ways: whether the manufacturer himself prepares a technical solution, which is then tested under the prescribed conditions, monitors its operation and thus proves that it meets safety requirements, and that there are no negative impacts on other subsystems, or whether the Ministry obtains part of the means for the execution of such or similar projects in the form of public tenders that require and prescribes the execution of a specific task. In such a case, the invitation to tender may be notified to any of the manufacturers and in both cases they shall be required to carry out the following: declaration of conformity, certificates, European technical consent, security analysis, technical documentation, test report by the manufacturer or the certification authority which carried out the test, compliance, instructions for use, installation instructions, maintenance instructions. Only after the procedure has been carried out on the request for authorisation shall the competent minister decide, thereby allowing the installation into the rail system. I'm not explaining this to you to apologize for not doing anything, but we get such ideas from citizens very much. I have an idea, too. For example, one option to solve the situation in order to make security bigger would be to give, instead of these classic rail systems of the two lights that are exchanged, a light that is somewhat more receptive in human consciousness, to understand it better, or instead, to give as many lights as possible, to Andrea's crosses. This is what the Swiss are doing right now, but also this, for the time being, my proposal, which the Swiss are making, has not been taken too well by the professional public. What am I trying to say? If there were unlimited amounts of money, we could of course make such security systems so that no accidents could occur. We are looking within resources for technical solutions that are in place, which represent the high level of safety required in the rail system. For example, all the prisoners are such that they have some kind of double control over when they start, and so on. It's not so easy for old people to say the idea and then it's realized tomorrow, if it's so good. Also, there is no evidence that an extremely enhanced light on locomotives would lead to significantly increased safety. We take all these proposals very seriously, discuss them with the professional public, and if we assess that any of them are such as to bring about a significant improvement, we will try to bring them to life. But at this point in rail traffic in Europe, we are trying to do different ways, as I said before, the Swiss with traffic lights and the like, and so far we are still going after that scheme when we are trying to make as many out-of-military railway crossings as possible, when we are trying to reduce too many railway crossings, where, say, people are doing what they are doing and it is too much in Slovenia, because they can't, say, drive one kilometer or two more, which is, let's say, understandable from the point of view of man, but not from the point of view of security. We are still doing this in a systematic way, but if we assess that any of these solutions are so acceptable, we will also make the call, but we cannot directly drown the idea in order to just use it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u53	Would you like an additional answer, Mr. Žnidaršič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much to the Minister for a comprehensive answer to the question raised, adding only that most of the accidents that occur on the railways are probably due to the fact that most of those who suffer injury or lose their lives have missed the upcoming train. In these solutions, I mainly thought and appealed to explore or try to use the better visibility of the train coming. This could also be done in the afternoon with multi-colored and powerful headlights, for example, which would alert the lady who had now died on the railway tracks, who had followed the last wagon of one train across the track, but did not see that the other train was coming on the other side and was dead two days ago on the track. I have to say that after what the paper said, the last three victims were in one month - on foot, on the railway tracks - due to the fact that these people noticed too late that the train was coming. That's probably why this powerful light signal, which would even be visible in the curves with a mirror, would help. And if only, it would not hurt to go into these solutions and in the long run help to make the victim less, as well as those accidents that leave him severely disabled, even less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u55	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u56	We'll re-examine it on your call. But I have to say, I don't know if you remember, or if you do, we took action last year for the Andre Cross. In fact, in the perception of the people of Andre, the cross does not even appear as strong as the red light, we have found. The Andre Cross has pointed out that you are only approaching the Andrea Cross secured by the railway crossing. Which means you'll be able to face the train directly if you're not careful enough. Experts tell me that it is more important to know when the railway is approaching than the train itself. That's what they tell me. So I also asked that everywhere where visibility is not good enough, make sure that bushes, trees are cut, but the train is noticed. However, we will consider this possibility once again with these light signals so that we can not miss anything, which can lead to more safety in rail transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, will answer the question of Mr France Kek on the completion of the motorway cross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you. For the Plus-Ponikva section, the Ponikve-Crust on the lower leg is still date 30. 6. However, unfortunately not all the connections of the connecting road will be built, so that construction will continue after the deadline, but the main motorway vein - yes. The contract deadline for the completion of the construction of the Peračica-Sub-Tabor on the upper leg is the end of August 2011. While we are trying to move this deadline to the start of the tourist season, it would probably take some additional resources to do so. Well, otherwise, it's now an official deadline for performers, I think, until August 2012. The construction of Slovenian motorways and fast roads has not yet been completed. For Drazenci-Gruškovje we expect the adoption of the State Spatial Plan in the Government by the end of June. Then there's Postojna-Divika-Yelšana, Koper-Dragona, Koper-Lucia. Part three of the development axis against the Republic of Austria awaits us. Koper-Lucia has already been placed and is already building, as you know. Then we have Drazenci-Gruškovje and this state space plan. There is also rooming.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u59	Here you go, Mr. Keck. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thanks for the answer. If I understand correctly, then on June 30th we expect the opening of the road past Trebnje. Or would you like to ask: What will be left after this date to settle? Will the mode of driving as usual be introduced on motorways, or will it only be partially? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u62	As far as I've been informed, normal traffic will take place on the main vein, only certain connecting roads that will not be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Because the Minister of Finance is Dr. Franc Križanič is absent and will answer Mr Milenk Ziherl's unanswered question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The question to the Minister of Finance, who is absent, will be put by Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The arbitration agreement provides that the arbitration panel shall first determine the course of the State border on land and at sea in accordance with the principles of international law. In the second sentence, not in the same sentence and in the same wave, it will determine the contact of Slovenia with the international sea. Therefore, if the Government knew and agreed that the territorial contact of Slovenian waters with international waters would be achieved, then one sentence would suffice to say that the arbitration panel must establish a border in order to reach territorial contact. Over! Over! Over! Over! However, since the current government has clearly eliminated the interests of Croatia here, it is also likely that the international community that peace is in the house has agreed to such an unacceptable provision. And I estimate that, on the basis of such an arbitration agreement, the arbitration panel will split it in half, draw the line to Italian waters, and Slovenia will remain a small sea of its own without territorial contact. What does that mean for Luca Koper? What does this mean for Slovenian economic interests? That's what I'm asking the finance minister. Does he know whether he has made any analysis of the economic and financial consequences of this decision on the operation of Luka Koper and on the operations of other economic operators closely linked to Luka Koper? We must be aware that more than 30% of all freight traffic in Slovenian railways is due to the activities of Luka Koper. The port of Koper is the window of Slovenia into the world and the world in this part of Europe, which has also raised Slovenia during the globally recognized economy. When the Minister of Transport, for example, goes either for finance or for the economy in China, Japan or elsewhere, he can offer these economies only this logistics and this natural gift and this opportunity as an opportunity for the Slovenian economy. Such an arbitration agreement, as it is now written, threatens the future and competitiveness of Port Koper. Why? In fact, if the ships have to sail through Croatian territorial waters into Slovenian territorial waters and into the port of Koper and, of course, vice versa, they will cross the Croatian sea and will also be subject to Croatia's ability to prevent this navigation from delaying it. Thus, Slovenia's Luka Koper loses its competitiveness compared to Croatia's port in Rijeka. I would like to know whether the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy or the Government have made any assessment of the negative economic consequences. What's the score? Since, of course, the Minister cannot explain this to me now, I expect that, at the next meeting of the assembly, he will explain this orally to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnic a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Apparently, the minister's lost his way. I'll speak in vain. The 2000 European Directive provides for the management of used motor vehicles in all Member States of the European Union and that it is binding on all members. The Directive was also the legal basis for the adoption of Slovenian legislation relating to the handling of used motor vehicles. A number of regulations, laws and regulations have been adopted, all of which should be sufficient to effectively implement the removal and decommissioning of used cars in the Slovenian space, as required by the Directive of the European Union. In Slovenia, it is possible to deposit spent in a recycling centre free of charge, which is not possible in all other European Union Member States. However, this should be an incentive for us, and legislation should be implemented consistently. The State granted a concession for the implementation of the economic public service in 2007 to three companies covering the whole of Slovenia, or it is possible to broadcast free of charge from 2005 to 49 locations. By 2015, the Directive of the European Parliament imposes on the Member States the proportion of recycled and reused components should be as high as 95%. The current percentage is supposed to be 85%. So I ask: what is the percentage of recycled and reused materials that are returned to processing with us? And: Will the target of 95% as set by the European Union be achieved by 2015? What are the findings of inspection services that monitor the consistency of the recycling of spent vehicles? And: Is Article 12 of the Road Safety Act consistently implemented, the third paragraph, which speaks of an inspection which is responsible for environmental protection? It is worrying that in Slovenia there are 40,000 used vehicles per year, which should go into decommissioning, but only around 7,000. It is obvious that the staff who check out the vehicle are not sufficiently consistent and the inspection services do not do their job well enough, since otherwise such derogations cannot occur. More and more vehicles have been found abandoned in parking spaces, in black landfills and in forests, as well as in what river there are some, and there are many in car waste. All of this justifies that the services responsible for the check-out and supervision do not do their job as they should. So I ask: What will you do to improve the situation as we have it and to ensure that the legislation is respected as it is written? It is obvious, however, that the penalties are too low, since otherwise the attitude of owners towards serviced cars would be quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Minister Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u68	Mr Member, thank you for the question. This is also a question that I ask myself many times as a citizen when I see a car on the lawn, which I have been looking at for several days or even a few months. I have prepared an answer to this question in such a way - briefly speaking - that there is a system, there are regulations and we have set up a system of monitoring, which is also available on the websites. But I would only give an essential answer, in a few words, that the matter will be clear enough. A major problem was the acquisition of a car-use certificate when it was checked out of traffic. So all of what's written, all of the regulations fall in practice on some kind of detail. It is precisely because of this detail that we are preparing a new regulation that will be prepared this year and will provide for the payment of registration by the time the owner submits a certificate of car decommissioning. With such a clear regulation, we count and believe that everything that is written and prescribed can also be applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Majhenič, would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u70	Only in one segment. I didn't understand if you'd explain it to me a little bit better. Like paying for a license plate while you're driving. I don't know if this is going together, if I understand correctly, because all you have to do is have a technical checkup and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u71	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u72	Well, maybe I said it wrong, it's not just about registration. The point is that until she's confirmed that the car is going to be processed or destroyed, the car won't be able to sign off.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Križman will also ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Žarnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, distinguished members and members! Allow me to ask a brief question: Mr Minister, in the Municipality of Koper we also have three villages of Rakitovac, Zazid, which are somehow, if I may say so, at the extreme point of the Municipality of Koper. It leads to a very old and narrow road, sometimes driven by donkeys and only by wheels, today these villages are more popular, people have come home, they have built houses. The town municipality of Koper planned the bypass road, because the road I was talking about is narrow and it goes through an old settlement. There was a major problem, however, as the compulsory road in Podpeč encountered the existing state of groundwater. This problem has been solved for many years. The problem is even worse, for other possibilities in this karst area are simple and simply impossible to plan. This is the only possible option at this point or at all times. Mr. Minister, please answer: What can the Ministry of Environment and Space do with the Municipality of Koper and with planners that, while protecting and respecting the environment, we can still allow people living in these villages to access their villages and their homes and apartments? This is a large number of citizens, and it is also the fact that the Municipality of Koper has invested a great deal in the preservation of life in these villages, in order to preserve the environment and landscape, but today we have encountered an insurmountable problem and cannot afford access to their homes. Let me illustrate that the furniture carrier can't get to the apartment, not just a vehicle with construction material, so these people are forced from larger vehicles, trucks, to move things into smaller trucks, and they've been doing this patiently for a long time, but I think they've had their patience run out. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u75	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u76	The President. Dear Member, we're in the middle of a big problem. In fact, the problem is the extreme sensitivity of the karst terrain and the problem of population concentration, which is already at the top of the border in the current population. And here we are faced with a conflict of two interests in the same environment: one is the interest of maintaining the aquifer and the entire water supply for the whole coast if anything happens; the other is the interest of the needs and wishes and the legitimate demands of the people who cannot live like this. When we discussed this issue in the house, I do not really have a clear answer right now, how to settle this road, because there is actually a conflict of major demands. I think that there is no other story than that this conversation and negotiation with the local community continues, but they are looking for some technical options, literally technical options that could at least allow for what the inhabitants expect.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u77	Here you go, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I understand the problem you have at the Ministry and with your answer, I can be satisfied myself, but they cannot be satisfied with the country, the ones who put me on that question. They expect us to start solving this sooner or later. With an additional question, Mr. Minister, I ask you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u79	Mr. Crossman, there can be no further question. All you can do now is propose if you want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u80	That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u81	Complementary response [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u82	Complementary question [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u83	Well, yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u84	Dear Minister, when do you expect to have any answers to this question?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u85	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. But I'll tell you something else. In accordance with all the principles of the profession and also formally in accordance with the applicable regulation, this carcase cannot be made there. I didn't mean to say it so directly, but I have to. So inside of that, because there's another requirement on the other side that we don't protect the plumbing and that. Therefore, I say that, within this, because it is so clear that it is not to be paid, it may be worth a second look if there are any technical options, how, despite the fact that it has been said that it is not possible, there can be a solution. In that sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the question of the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I don't know. Mr. Secretary's not here. Maybe he's listening to me in some office. The judicial profession is one of the most responsible professions that can only be carried out by well-trained and so stable, self-confident persons who will take decisions in the first place professionally, in accordance with the Constitution and the law and, of course, also in accordance with the moral and ethical principles of society. Unfortunately, too many mistakes, irregularities, occur in Slovenian justice. What is even more worrying is the fact that these so-called mistakes also occur because of various corrupt practices and later defend themselves as if they were right. Many times, unfortunately, he knows in advance who will get justice in a certain process: the one who is more wealthy, the one who has the will, for example, and the little man has great injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome you to my question. I ask you: What should a citizen do when he is disappointed by the last instance: the court? What should he or she do if he knows that there have been errors in some proceedings and irregularities, they have been thrown under the carpet in court. Last but not least, Mr. Minister, what can you do as Minister of Justice? How can you act if you are presented with the facts that a judge was wrong about the injustice? What measures, therefore, can you, as Minister of Justice, bring proceedings against this judge and court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u89	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I apologize for not being at the very beginning of your question, but I have heard what is essential. First, advice to the parties: Where they feel that they have been wronged, it can only be as provided by our constitutional framework. This is to take advantage of all regular and extraordinary legal remedies first. If this does not help, then there remains a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court and here they are, in fact, we can say that all these remedies are exhausted. However, if such an exceptional situation occurs, when an individual considers that he has been harmed by a decision and in such a case wishes to be reimbursed, then the Constitution also provides him with this option. Therefore, it is not impossible for the State to be liable for damages due to inadequate, unlawful conduct by the State authority, even by the courts. In practice, this, unfortunately, is what I am and is actually happening there. What can I do as a minister in such cases? Our Ministry is being referred to the parties in judicial proceedings for various reasons. In such a case, the Minister has more options. One is that it decides to supervise the conduct of cases of judicial administration in the sense that it requires the submission of certain data on the conduct of the court, certain explanations or reports, of course, depending on whether it is already seen from the role of the party that the President of the Court has not carried out all that he might be able to do. Another possibility is that the Minister may request data and reports on the state of the case, especially when it comes to requests coming from here, i.e. from the National Assembly, the State Council, the President of the Republic, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman and so on. The Minister shall also have the opportunity to order, or propose, an order to review the operation of the court in the case in which the party complains, but it is not the Minister who makes the final decision and is similar in the case of official supervision of the work of the judges. There's also the motioner. The Minister may also give an initiative to initiate disciplinary proceedings, but in this case, not because of the content of the decision itself in a particular case, but because of other disciplinary infringements defined by law and where it is possible to include an unscrupulous, unscrupulous, unscrupulous exercise of judicial service. Thus, certain powers of the Minister of Justice in this respect have the only restriction, which at the same time poses the greatest obstacle to the one who feels hurt, the obstacle in terms of the elimination of injustice, but is that the Minister can never fall into a concrete decision and can never initiate proceedings against the individual holder of the judicial function in relation to a specific decision. This is a limitation established by law, which has also been established in practice by the Council of Justice in some cases in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u91	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you. The Honourable Minister. Almost all of Slovenia is already known for the example of Bulmastifs. The judgment of the Administrative Court of 10 March 2008, which annulled the decision of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, is legally binding and, as such, unfortunately, from a legal point of view, correct. I'm aware of that. However, this judgment is also wrong in the opinion of many legal professionals. Dr. Rajko Pirnat uses the whole word "illegal." Also the administrative inspector of the public administration mag. In the minutes of the inspector's inspection, Marjan Štriker notes that it is quite clear that the court has overlooked the transitional provisions of the amendment of the law. So, I want to know: In this particular case, in order to verify why such an incorrect decision had occurred, what measures did you take as Minister? Have you found any irregularities on your part? Have any measures been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u93	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. So if you've listened very carefully to me, then you've found the answer to this supplementary question in my previous answer. As Minister, I cannot act on a concrete decision; also on what has already been completed legally. This is a matter of the judiciary itself, and especially of the Council of Justice. According to data which are also publicly available, there has been an administrative review within the Court of Justice and it is concluded that there have been no irregularities in the handling of this case. However, when it comes to the question of the finality of this decision and the legality, it could be said that the judgment was wrong only if it had been dismissed in the legal proceedings. That's the first part of my answer to your first part of the question. Therefore, where the case is final and legal, then the judgment is valid, it creates legal effects and any criticism of such a judgment, which is otherwise legitimate, has no legal effect in this respect. However, the quality of decision-making under the criteria of the Council of Justice may be taken into account in the assessment of the judicial service, in the decision on progress or in the decision on a further judge's career, and, as far as it is known, in this case, in the Chamber of Three Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the question of the Foreign Minister to Mr Samuel Žbogar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, both ministers! The arbitration agreement has already been largely mentioned and is likely to continue. But people still don't know who to believe, but that's another story. However, the fact is that if we keep the words spoken by the Prime Minister of the Government, our government, that the President of the Croatian Government has promised him that Slovenia will have direct contact with the territorial sea, it is said that our sea - direct contact, then arbitration is not necessary. One way or another, we would be pleased and Croats if they also agree, the matter is fine. But since we need an arbitration agreement, that means we won't have any contact. And now, in fact, we are in a paradoxical situation. This is, for example, a map of the current situation when Slovenia has direct contact with international waters. We got him. There's no problem. Under the arbitration agreement, which will apply international law, it is said that international law has been laid down, and in no case can this lead to another State than that Slovenia will be a closed state. Our territorial sea will in no way contact international waters on the Adriatic. It's not possible. And that's why we'll only have a service route through Croatian waters. It can't be otherwise. There is no sorceress who can draw such a line that according to international law, but not according to the rules of external justice, which also applies historical facts, somehow makes contact with our territorial waters directly with international waters. And my question is going the other way or I'm going the other way. Between Slovenian waters and international waters there will, of course, be a Croatian sea, and we will have a service right. Otherwise it's not possible. There's no other way. And this service path will essentially be in Croatian territory. This will be an agreement on how we could possibly get to the port of Koper, but the sea will be Croatian. What if the Italians remember, for such or other reasons, that they start to control all traffic in their territorial waters and start to control ships that will sail into the port of Cyprus? What's gonna happen? Do you have a script on what you're gonna do? The fact is, if it is their sea, they have the right to do this control despite the agreement that would be adopted. They have that right. An example of an emergency. That's why I'm asking you: What kind of scenario do you have, B scenario, if it comes to that? Indeed, this has happened to Slovenia once before in this term when your government is yours. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Petan has asked quite a few questions. First of all, regarding the promise of the Croatian Prime Minister to the Slovenian President of the Government, regarding direct contact, the direct exit of Slovenia to the open sea. You have this promise written down in the arbitration agreement very clearly. Come in. Of course, you do not want to believe that this contact will occur because you do not want to believe, but otherwise see what the exit of Slovenia to the open sea will look like after this agreement. Now, what's the service path, please?Oh, my God! [[...]] We don't need any agreement on the service path. We have a business trip under the 2000 agreement. There is an agreement between Slovenia, Croatia and Italy, signed in Ancona, after which a waterway is determined on the Adriatic and after which all ships take the Croatian coast up and return on the Italian coast down. This is the service path that is already in this agreement. We wouldn't need any arbitration agreement to confirm the same thing. Even under the arbitration agreement and when we also get formally confirmed this exit to the open sea, the ships will still walk the same way, on the Croatian side up and on the Italian side back. You're also mentioning an emergency. Italy introduced G7. Yeah, she reinstated border control on land, not at sea. At sea, ships from the port of Koper still walked beautifully on the Italian side back without control. For what is a harmless passage? An inviolable transition must be made possible by the State, except when the threat or use of force against the sovereignty of the State occurs, when military operations are involved, when aircraft can take off from the ship or when the ship is engaged in fishing, research or pollution. Only in these cases can the State stop a ship that travels through its territory. In addition - How would Croatia even know which Slovenian ship goes to the port of Koper? Maybe he's going to the port of Trieste. I mean, it's just not possible in theory. Firstly, it is absolutely not an issue that we will not get in touch after this agreement, but when this is very specifically enshrined in this arbitration agreement and will be specified as such. Here I've shown you how it's going to be drawn, more or less, in a way it's going to be drawn like this. And second, as far as the waterways are concerned. They are already defined in this Agreement and what the Arbitration Agreement imposes is not to confirm an agreement already in force and to determine Slovenia some of the rights it already has under international law in general, especially under this Agreement, but to determine this more or to codify this contact, which we have since 1991.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u99	Mr. Petan, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you. We just need an agreement for the service trip. If we have a free pass, we don't need any agreement because we automatically get there. But it's something else. I asked you about the case of Italy. Italy and I have a free land border. Since when does this matter to them? We've got a solution. But even though the border fell, with Schengen the border fell, the Italians began to control the border on land. They started because of the emergency, because it doesn't matter if it's G7. I wrote this to you that it's a G7. For the G7 the same can happen at sea when they are in Postojna, say, again, if they steal weapons, but I hope they will not, then this case has occurred, but Croatia will say, and now because of the extraordinary circumstances we will begin to control the border at sea, in our Croatian territorial sea. They can do that. Oh, yes, they do, or the ship sails to Trieste or Koper. Of course they do. You don't have to tell me. It's just something. It's about who to trust. Or to believe those who claim that the arbitration agreement really gives us what is claimed or those who claim that it does not give us that gives us a greater service path. This is about as they would have wondered; previous elections were in the National Assembly two years ago, then a lot of promises were made, and the coalition that is now in power promised a different government, better governance, better governance, better governance of Slovenia, a thousand euros of pensions; I say, if all of this has happened or is about to take place, then it must be believed in those, otherwise it must be imagined. And I think it's worth imagining. I'm asking you again, what's plan B? If it comes to what Italy has done to start at the border established by an international agreement, to control the land border, what will happen if Croatia does? If Italy can do this on land, Croatia can do the same in its territorial waters and will control this service path that we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u101	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u102	I would point out that the difference between border control on land or at sea. This was perfectly clear now in the Italian case when they reinstated the border on land, while at sea the principle of free navigation and uninterrupted navigation applies irrespective of everything, except in specific cases, I have mentioned this to you when there is a reasonable suspicion that something is going on. One country can't just remember and stop other ships and for some imaginary reason. This was in the past in the Adriatic Sea. Albania thus stopped British ships, Britain went to the state court in The Hague and obtained a case and Albania had to pay compensation for it. This is not left to the State to be able to stop ships on its own under very clear provisions of international law. So it's not something that's waiting for us, which would threaten us. And once again, for the service path, which means an unhindered transition, Slovenia does not use an arbitration agreement and this is clear to us, at least to those who support an arbitration agreement. And this is clear to the judges who will determine this contact of Slovenia with the open sea. And this agreement very specifically requires judges to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, I think more clearly that it could not be written down. And that's how it's going to happen, and that's how it's going to end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u103	Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you. Clearly, we have not yet been able to resolve this problem, and a thorough debate will, of course, be needed. But I am pleased that you yourself have admitted that under certain circumstances a border can be controlled. And Croats have now invented a million things to complicate the matter and even after the border is definitively set, when they have the right, when it will be their sea, so that they can invent a hundred reasons. What helps us if we complain and some international Senate decides for six months that they do not justly interfere with the ships to Kopra. Copper can lose all his business! Listen, international capital isn't what we can do when we can negotiate, but I don't know what we're doing. International capital is moving, if other ports are free of such obstacles, ships will certainly go there. That's a fact. We're going to have irreparable damage, and that won't be remediable. And that's what I'm talking about. However, as we obviously do not find a common language, I believe that there will be a clear need for a thorough debate, so, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this issue be discussed in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Rudolph Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 18 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Peter Verlich will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I have already asked the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Foreign Affairs here in the National Assembly about the change of priority in the course of the cross-border project, the sixth priority project between Koper and Divac and Trieste and Divaco, which was concluded between the two countries in 2007 with the presence of the European coordinator, in order to build a modern railway connection between Trieste and Divac and Kopro and Divac, two-tier railway links, of course with European funding, are called high-capacity routes. From all the answers, I understood that Slovenia would by no means change any priorities in order to insist on this agreement, which, according to my assessment, was very good. In fact, the port of Koper strategically placed in the map of the northern Adriatic ports equivalent to Trieste and River. Then I received this reply from the project task created by the Directorate for Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure. I received a reply that the meeting was held with the Minister of Transport, as stated in this document, on 2 April the conclusion was to change the priority from a double-track to a single one, by going from Divaca to a vaccination centre - this is probably with Black Kal - as a single track and forward as a two-track. And that the variant that Italy then adopted is no longer a priority, and that from Trieste to Divaca is looking for the so-called high variant, it is said that this route runs from Trieste to Divaca past Séžana. From Kopra to Divaca, this project task now builds it as a track. Now I want to know: Is this change of project slowly due to the fact that Luka Koper will obviously also be a territorially disadvantaged port, since obviously we will not have a free exit to the open sea? No answer has convinced me so far. And I want to know: Did the government decide that at all? However, there is a change to an international agreement. Has the European Commission been informed of this at all? These are, not least, European funds. And: How do you feel about the fact that Trieste is actually going to have a good back-up connection and Koper's obviously getting worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Vlačič will answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you so much for asking. First, a proposal to change the link to VI. the priority project or corridor V. between Italy and Slovenia came from the Italian side. We didn't propose it, we didn't propose it. For the time being, that agreement is still in force, and our party has not withdrawn from it and neither has the Italian side. So, for now, everything is still the way it was. The formal agreement on where the V. Priority Project will take place is still as valid as you know it. However, it is a cross-border project where both sides must agree. They have made it clear to us that the course of this route is no longer acceptable for them. I've been vetting the government's position, and you know there were two things that needed to be decided: whether there would be discussions going on in a new plant south of the existing one, now a valid agreement, or whether they would go north. And on the government, I got a confirmation that north of this vaccine, if we're talking about anything, not south. So it's not like we're connecting Koper-Trest, two arches, it's north of the vaccine. And that's what we're talking about. Once again, however, that settlement on the Black Kal is still in force, with important notice that the Italians have informed us that this is no longer acceptable to them. As it goes, we'll see. It's still acceptable to us. If they change their mind again, we have to, because it's two sides, but also consider what they think. And if we have to go to new conversations, then we will go to new conversations; and on this subject we regularly talk to them and meet. But I have a proven position on this on the government. As far as unity and duality are concerned. Be precise and then say trinity, because we already have one track, now we're building another track. And what you're talking about will be the third track, not the second track; so you have to look at it this way. I think it is necessary to start building as soon as possible, because the European funds we reserve on this project are such that we have to make use of them by 2013 or at the latest for those projects already under way by 2015. And if we don't start building, we won't be able to use them. If we wait for duality, given how slowly it fits into space with us, we will have great accommodation in space and not even the euro of European money for construction. I just can't do it. That is why we have decided to go to the construction of at least a single link as soon as possible, which will significantly improve the link between Luke Koper and the hinterland, which now takes place after what has been built as an industrial track, which today allows transport of 8 million tonnes per year in and from Luke Koper, 8 million tonnes. The new additional track will be free of worry for all that this spatial moment is planned in Luka Koper, where we predict 35 to 40 million tons of cargo per year; the port had 16 million tonnes in the best years; the second track will be more than enough, the second one. However, we also intend to go with spatial planning of the third track or the second double, if you wish, forward. I'm the only one who wants this single track built as soon as possible. So much for that. Don't worry. Let me take advantage of that, because you've given me this opportunity, this service and this connection to the open sea. When you're talking about service, you're talking about a safe passage. If we want to use an unharmed transition across the Italian Sea, we do not need any agreement to do so, because it is stated in the Ancon Convention, we do not need service agreements, because a harmless transition is a service. Do not speak, do not deceive the Slovenian public, please do not deceive. So the connection of the Slovenian sea to the open sea will be territorial, I know this is very painful for someone, but it will. And those who speak against the arbitration agreement are doing the greatest service to Croatia, which will simply say, "We wanted to, they didn't want to agree." And this situation will continue indefinitely, as it is today. So I don't think you need to worry that Koper would be cut off from international waters and that he wouldn't have any good connections, including those with this other single track, which will be spatially planned as a double. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u109	Complementary response, Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u110	See, on 2 April 2009, at your meeting at the Ministry of Transport, it was decided that this agreement should be amended. You're the one who changed him at the meeting, Your Honor. On April 2nd, you decided to build a single line from Kopra to Black Kala on the Divaca section and a two-tier line. But at the same time, you say that Italy has first informed you that it wants to change priorities, this agreement was valid between the two countries in the presence of the European coordinator, that modern railway links are being built on all the Divača-Koper triangle and Trieste-Divača triangle. Especially because I didn't hear how you wanted to be connected now the port of Trieste and the port of Koper. Italy has always insisted that Koper and Trieste are connected. With this option now, with this option, if I look at it the way it is drawn, what you've just landed on is that we have from Kopra to Divaca one track and some route that goes far away from Trieste. Tomorrow the Tribute will require the connection between Trieste and Kopra directly, after tomorrow will no longer need Sežana until Divaca, and in the end you will get this: Koper-Trst, connected to Pontebian Railway. Clearly, look, while Trieste has a modern, two-tier connection, and it will have and will also have a river with Zagreb against Budapest building a modern two-tier railway connection, we will have some track and some poor industrial track from the 1960s.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u111	Mr. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u112	Dr. Verlich, what you're saying is simply not true. But who is going to force Slovenia to build a railway between the port of Kore and Trieste, because I publicly told the Italian side and publicly told the media that I would not support this connection. Why are you speculating that this connection is going to be? Unless another minister does it for me. It's perfectly logical what I'm interested in right now, what I'm interested in as a minister, yes, that Koper has as much connection as possible, this moment has one track, we're going to build another track. And if I don't build it now, I don't understand what you really want us to stop building one, wait for the spatial installation of the double and start building in 2017. That would be a problem. So I want to build a single track. You, this decision you're quoting, I'm going to tell you today what my instructions are. Today it is my very clear guidance from today's College, because it was not clear to everyone as it is here, as it is written, that it is not clear to all that a single track is being built, and that a double track is being built in the course of the entire route. In the course of the entire route, from Kopra to Divaca. To make a proposal for a new state space plan. But you only had a duality between the part that connects the early incision to there. My clear direction today is, one track is being built, there's a double track between Koper and the Fan. So the proposal for a new VAT is to begin immediately with the integration of the second double track. Of course, because we talked about it, it's better that the connection is as northern as possible, and there's no connection between the ports. Don't worry, I won't agree to the link between Koper and Trieste, because this is not the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. The interest of the Republic of Slovenia is that the link is at VI. the priority project or the V. corridor also between Italy and Slovenia. Where it is, I myself have made it clear and the Government has also verified this position, that it goes northerly than an existing vaccine or that it remains this plant which is now, but we have not proposed changes, not to deceive. We didn't. The Italian side proposed a change. Otherwise, it's easy for me and you to stay at this plant, which is now, we don't have a problem understanding each other. We can stay at this plant, but their proposal is, for ecological reasons on their part, that there is no such route here. So once again, we're going to build one track now, and there's going to be a proposal for the Ministry of Environment and Space to start putting space on the second track that we're going to start building now. That connection to be between Koper and Trieste, don't worry, I'll tell you here in public, in the National Assembly, I won't support it, that is, the connection between the Kore port and the market port. I don't think the port of Cyprus and the Slovenian rail system need this unless you think otherwise. Of course you can make a suggestion, but I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Verlich, would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In view of these answers, which have now been given, it has indeed proved necessary to clarify matters. I therefore propose that this be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly. And allow me to further substantiate it. Indeed, it was on the basis of these answers that you have now given that you have made it clear that this agreement, which was agreed between the two parties in 2007, is still valid. This one's valid. So this is the first document, because I am satisfied with this answer. But the activities that go on are not like that. And I'll tell you in a strategic sense, by changing the priority with which you definitely followed from the documentation, the first proposal you made, you changed it, you gave the task to build a single track in the project assignment from Kopra to Black Kal, the one originally envisaged. Of course, you have opened the way for the Italian parties to change and propose to you otherwise. That's right. And let me tell you, this proposal to take account of the duality is even more surprising because this proposal has already been made. Minister, this initiative by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Environment has already been given, and if you look at the Ministry of Environment and Space website today, this supplement for duality is already being processed. So I don't know what kind of instruction you gave to college today. Same again? At the same time, the project task has already been carried out by building a single track from Divaca to Kopra, which, of course, means that even in technical terms, the parameters for design are completely different than if they had already taken duplicity into account. It is also about giving, now I will tell my competition both in Croatia and on the Italian side a clear signal that we do not really want modern connections to the hinterland. I know very well that we have one track, but one track that was built almost as an industrial track in the 1960s, with poor parameters. The industrial track was almost because, as it was supposed, the party authorities were already opposed to building a railway connection with Koper. And if we link this to an arbitration agreement, even with what threatens us, then it is more than right to discuss these strategic matters here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Verlič, your proposal to discuss the Minister's response in the National Assembly will be voted on tomorrow. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, would you like to ask Minister of Health Dorian Marusic, despite his absence?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Respectable present. Since the Minister of Health is absent, I would ask him to answer me in writing. I hope that by the time the answer is ready, this problem, which I am reminding you of today, will be resolved. I was asked to help by a representative of the Association of Disabled Associations of Slovenia, who brings together persons with an excision performed over the stomach on the abdominal wall. In the Union of Disabled Associations of Slovenia, they were surprised by the behaviour of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which was expected to prepare price standards recently, which greatly affected people with a stomach. Reducing price standards means higher fees for appropriate orthopaedic devices that many people with stomachs cannot afford or are hard to afford. They believe that a device of only one kind cannot provide hygiene safety and intimacy for people with a stomach. Stomach people believe that they should be provided with multi-day, 24-hour security, which, by a recently adopted decision, would prevent the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The Union of Disabled Associations of Slovenia is also surprised that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is expected to lower the price standards without the knowledge of the population affected by these measures. If the devices are inadequate, they may give in too quickly. It is a fear that is a constant companion of people with a stomach who are already sufficiently affected by the condition because of the changed physical image. They believe that the impressions of orthopaedic aids that these people urgently need will reduce the quality of life of these people, namely the stomach belt and other devices. To date, each person with a Stomach has been able to choose an orthopedic device based on their own experiences or legitimate needs. The selection guide was the quality of the device, which provided a longer period of installation on the abdominal wall and personal feeling when installed during the activity. Because of these problems in patients with a stomach, I ask the Minister: When and with what justification did the contested decision of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia arise? And: What will the Minister do to address the serious problems brought to the attention of patients with a Stomach or a representative of the Association of Disabled Associations of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In accordance with your proposal, you will receive the Minister's written reply within 30 days. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar, will be asked by Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague. A number of events have occurred recently, which have changed strongly and have had a fatal impact on developments in the Balkans. First, there was a conference in Brdo, which with a very strong result indicated some new directions in the Western Balkans. Personally, I kind of freaked myself out, like a new form of the former Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians is being established. That's kind of what it felt like. However, of course, the content later showed that nothing actually happened at the conference because there was no representation by the European Union. The very hot issues between Serbia and Kosovo, due to the absence of one, i.e. the main actors, the Serbian delegation, the conference in essence, then resolved to nothing. The second moment is the Greek financial crisis, which may somehow bind the hands of Greece in its relations with Macedonia, and this would suggest that it should take advantage of Macedonia's better starting positions. In Greece, this attitude towards Macedonia has been misused in such a way as to highlight open issues with Macedonia, particularly the banal issue of the name of the country, by, of course, covering the causes of the crisis. There are some, I think, aspects that need to be defined. As has already been said, Macedonia should assist in its path to Euro-Atlantic connections and take more care of other facts than just a name. Greece should certainly be softened if it receives €400 million from our country and from other countries such packages as other countries in the crisis can only dream of. As has already been said, there is also a need for political services in addition to financial guarantees. Bosnia and Herzegovina. I read, while we demand the return of our soldiers from Afghanistan, the Bosnians are prepared to go there within the Turkish contingent. There was an Islamic-economic union in Turkey, Turkey, Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Indonesia. Bosnia will probably be able to begin gravity on this economic entity. Serbia, open issues with Kosovo. However, the arbitration agreement, regardless of the outcome of the referendum, will leave some new consequences and some other approach, not only Slovenia - Croatia, but relations in the Balkans [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u121	Mr. Minister Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I think that there was no question, there was a more comment on the situation in the Balkans, which I would like to comment on myself. Slovenia or the Slovenian Government adopted guidelines for the operation of Slovenia in the Western Balkans in March. The guidelines, which were also introduced by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly. We went to the Guidelines to create a somewhat more ambitious and more coordinated policy of Slovenia in the Western Balkans, a policy that would further protect Slovenian political and economic interests there. One form or implementation of these guidelines was also the conference we organised, a conference in Brdo on 20 March, which shows some ambition of Slovenia to be an interlocutor in the region. The aim of the conference was to start or encourage regional integration of the countries of the region and to this end the conference was successful. Unfortunately, not all participants participated. The Serbian government decided not to participate at that time, but the meeting was a success. From the meeting came a very positive message of the necessity of cooperation, of integration in very specific areas. The conference in the form of a conference of transport ministers in the region is already being prepared in June to discuss infrastructure projects. There's a process going on. I think that Serbia itself has realized that not participating in the Brdo conference may not have been the best decision. Finally, on 2 June, a conference will be held in Sarajevo, which will take place in a format that we can also call the Slovenian format, which was the format we offered for the conference in Brdo, but was not acceptable at the time, and this time it is. For even within the EU, the conviction that Serbia's non-participation at the conference was not a good decision and that the non-participation of some European representatives at the conference was not a good decision. I think there is something going on in the Balkans last year and this year. They feel certain movements, I think that also the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia has helped, created, triggered or encouraged a moment in the region. Indeed, two countries have managed to solve a major problem, and this has also been an incentive for countries in the region to start solving bilateral problems. What does this moment show? In Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, the country was able to take certain measures to obtain a membership action plan for NATO. I think this is a great success, which we have been working on ourselves. Similarly, the country has taken a number of measures to obtain visa liberalisation or that the European Union has abolished its visas and let us hope that this will happen again in, certainly this year, but we would like to see the European Union send a positive message to people or peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina before the elections. A process has begun between Macedonia and Greece to resolve the border issue, not the border issue, but the name issue. For the first time, bilateral contacts and attempts to find options were made. The result has not yet been achieved, but it is positive that there is communication between the two countries and that they are probably trying for the first time in recent years to find a solution that would lead Macedonia to NATO and that would enable Macedonia to start negotiations with the European Union. Serbia is also going well on its way to the European Union. It submitted its request last December and is awaiting some decisions of the European Council in June. Montenegro has already submitted its replies to the European Union's questionnaire and hopes that by the end of the year it will also have an opinion from the European Commission on the start of negotiations. I think that the moment is currently in the region, which needs to be encouraged and I think that the signing of the arbitration agreement has also played a role in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u123	Mr. Ziherl, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u124	Absolutely. Some things have been answered by the Minister, but some remain open. It is also possible that the arbitration agreement, or it would start with the fact that the leading role of Slovenia in the Balkans, which has been recognised by some Western countries, in particular by our colleagues in the European Union, may be jeopardised. But it can happen that we gradually lose it. In fact, when Croatia comes to the European Union with a Bianca menu, because by then there is another single letter in relation to arbitration, so the arbitration will not be done and once a member of the European Union can say, we will come to the next debate in 99 years, let's say. Nobody takes them to court alone. If an agreement is concluded, where and how will we assess the border issue, it is not said that it binds them. The endangered leading role of Slovenia in the Balkans is certainly from Croatia and later from Serbia. The arbitration agreement, as I said, is arbitration, whatever the result is, it will be possible for one party to change its position. If we believe the Prime Minister and maybe we will get everything he provides, then the blood will be hot in Croatia. Here I have seen in the media, the Croatian National Party, a distinguished Member, I think even in these European integration processes, I am currently not sure in which group, but Mrs Vesna Pusić has just said: "Pahor wants to create artistic impression before the referendum by stating an agreement with Jadranka Kosor, regarding the exit to the open sea." So they're going to arbitration with a fig in their pocket. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Ziherl. Mr. Minister Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u126	Quite a few things to comment on. Regarding the artistic impression - I would rather say that the artistic impression is this statement attached to the agreement, unilateral and which you like to quote. This is an artistic impression that essentially proves that what is in the arbitration agreement is essentially Slovenia's contact with the open sea or the exit of Slovenia to the open sea. So that's about the artistic impression. Otherwise, the role of Slovenia in the Balkans is not seen as the role of one, one that will have primate in the Balkans, but rather as a country that is here to connect to help solve problems in the region. As the region will be as stable as possible, on its way to the European Union, people will be as satisfied as possible, economic growth will be great, and Slovenia, which is mainly linked to this area through economic change, will also benefit. So we see our role as a connecting role, and I don't think we need to be afraid of Croatia coming into the European Union or immediately after Serbia. On the contrary. I think that history has taught us that the worst thing in this region is that a country strives for primate. But that is why, with the start of the hill process, with the beginning of the Brdo conference, we wanted to establish this regional cooperation when countries are talking equally about the round table about problems in the region or the joint cooperation for the future. So I think that Slovenia, as a small country in general in foreign policy, needs to work towards integration in order to solve problems in order to bring together different views, to seek compromises and to promote dialogue. Here I see the role of Slovenia in international relations and especially in the Western Balkans. And in this direction, the Government's guidelines for cooperation with the Western Balkans have been adopted and we will work in this direction. Montenegro's foreign minister was in Slovenia on Friday. At that time, he also commented on the issue of journalists that, as a country of the region with some expectation and hope, they are looking at the approval of the arbitration agreement at the referendum, because in this arbitration agreement they see the positive signal sent by Slovenia together with Croatia to the region and which triggered some more optimistic mood in the region itself. That is why they hope and expect the Slovenian voters to confirm it at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u128	Despite the Minister's reply to many things, the topic is so topical that I suggest a broader debate be held at one of the next meetings, in particular from the following point of view. No one is opposed, even we support Serbia and Croatia's integration into the European Union, but the interests of Slovenia must be protected. However, the arbitration agreement can be a mirror, i.e., poor approaches or results and dissatisfaction, which can then be reflected in five more, six open issues Croatia has with other countries. And this is a poor journey for the Balkans as an area of peace and stability and good economic cooperation, for which great will is being done and so far very successfully, but there are still various bureaucratic obstacles that would be overcome by integration. However, Slovenia must certainly protect its interests and not take a solo action and then excite Europe, particularly the President of Spain, in relation to this conference in Brdo. And just because very current matters will be cleared up and they will also come before the Committee on Foreign Policy, I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl, we will discuss and decide on this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It will not be a broader debate, but rather a response from Minister Žbogar, and it will not be one of the next meetings, but rather a decision to do so at the next meeting. We will vote on this tomorrow, as part of the vote. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if your predecessor, Mr. Minister, has informed you of the problem of the location or relocation of an RTV transmitter from a populated area in the town of Pječarovci in Prekmurje in Prekmurje, where it causes negative effects on the health of people, the environment and the citizens there. This transmitter from the time of Yugoslavia is a dangerous foreigner in a densely populated place, and even though the local community has sought a replacement location outside the populated area, the RTV management has been delaying resettlement for years, despite promises of already reserved funds and readiness for resettlement. The OE transmitters and links of RTV Slovenia are already very late to digitise the TV signal and move the transmitter from the populated to the uninhabited area. That the current location poses a risk to the health of the inhabitants in this part of Gorička, they seem to care little. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Who and why is blocking and stalling the making of spatial plans? Especially when it comes to such a strategic and important location, the relocation of the RTV Slovenia transmitter. The issue is very topical, both in terms of environmental damage and also in terms of updating TV signalling, i.e. digitisation. I want to know: Who bears the blame for such obvious deliberate delay? According to one statement at the Ministry of Environment and Space or at the RTV itself or perhaps at other state bodies or instances. Civil initiative among the affected population of the village of Pečarovci in Goričko has also done everything in its power. In a state of impotence and hopelessness, requests, protests to all possible instances and institutions, to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, to different ministries, to each office of the current President of the Government, to the Ombudsman or to the Ombudsman, etc. Unfortunately, they run into deaf ears, ignorant attitudes, or empty promises everywhere. In the end, only we Members and only some other European instance or court remain. So I'd like to ask you: For the first time, are you familiar with this problem? What would you do to get rid of him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dr. Roko Žarnic, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u132	Dear Sir, the honourable Member! I must apologize, but with this question you surprised me a little, because there was no question in writing. But I'm gonna try to figure out a way to get this thing over with. In particular, I cannot answer this question, as you have correctly stated, I really do not know this problem, I have not been put to it. But we have something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u133	Mr. Minister, do not have bad conscience, nor do you have to answer if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u134	No, no, I will, just an introduction, so there'll be no disappointment, because I don't have a concrete answer, and then we'll deal with it. Look, I've got something else, from the general to these things. There is, as we all know, the introduction of 1996 and the rules of the same year. As life continues and things get worse in Europe, we will also amend this year's Electromagnetic Radiation Regulation in line with the 1999 European Union's recommendations. I expect that, under these conditions, new, in the new regulation, perhaps, if this problem were to happen, somewhere for some limit values. As a technician, I understand that when the thresholds are in place, there can then be a lot of arrangements, I don't know, but there will be new regulations here, and for existing sources of radiation, the ILO plans solutions to adapt in some transitional period to the prescribed limit values. Now, what I got from my inspection services is that these problems in Slovenia are quite something. From 2005 to 2009, the average annual number of inspections was between 30 and 50, as well as a number of measures and criminal proceedings. It is said that in Slovenia your case is obviously not the only one that the inspection is working. But I promise you, I will ask myself tomorrow at the Ministry specifically for this case because I wasn't ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u136	I didn't expect them to introduce you to this problem. However, I could recommend to you, Mr Minister, where you can also obtain relevant information on this issue. Because the affected people have already addressed the President, forever the current President of the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Commission for Petitions and Human Rights, both in the previous mandate of colleague Maja Patrati and in this mandate with colleague Eva Irgle, and this Commission has quite detailed information on this issue. So, what do I mean? They have exhausted almost all possible things, they have exhausted instances, and unfortunately remain in such a hopeless situation. Some members of the National Assembly also had a personal view of the matter, but unfortunately, the situation remained in principle of understanding and compassion. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Are you willing to take a personal look at the situation in nature and visit that area? The affected citizens of Goričko certainly deserve at least so much attention and understanding, not only because of this RTV transmitter. This is the area of Gorička, which is also at risk in other areas, especially the landfill, the landfill in Puconci, which is close to the settlement with the disputed transmitter. It is also an unacceptable threat to the environment and consequently to the health of the inhabitants of the area. I know this isn't a topic right now. But what I want to say to you is that with your visit, let's say, I would familiarize myself with the wider issue of this area in Prekmurje and certainly find out, I firmly believe that you are prepared to find solutions to such matters and to resolve problems. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u137	Mr. Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u138	Well, thank you for inviting me. Such an invitation is a happy response. Inside that schedule that they're preparing for me and that's possible, we're gonna sort it out with our services. But I'd like to ask before I go on the road so that maybe there's no data or I'll be in the house looking at data on this case that I might remember from the newspaper when I wasn't a minister, but I don't really know the details.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Zorn will ask Mrs Majdi Shirca's Culture Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u140	Dear Minister, good afternoon. But all you did was run. Something unusual has happened. The government held a meeting in Lipica and at that time the Prime Minister of the Government said what the Government had said for a long time in the previous term and ran into huge controversy. He said that Lipica cannot survive alone and that she needs to invest in tourism. And that's actually true. Let's see. Lipica has three activities, she has a horsemaker, she has a casino and she has golf. All three of them have traditions there, but they're in total loss. During the previous term, the horse was finally repaired. Horses that haven't seen in white days for months because they were in barns, sick, neglected, they were finally arranged, they were arranged for foster books, and in short, this thing was glass. In the previous term, the government has tried to raise the second part, saying what follows is that we get tourists who bring money. Hotel services that could have been created when we had a comprehensive program, which means that we would then go to hotel renovations, this was also intended, and the development of gaming if this could happen, and clearly also golf, because golf there is too small, despite having a tradition. But I'm not a defender of this golf, I'm asking you something completely different. Lipica devours huge money and horsemen and white horses are, however we take, luxury. Even though they are a centuries - old tradition, they are a luxury and such a luxury has to survive in part. It turned out that only horses would not be able to survive, it turned out that gambling would not be possible to survive because it has an unusual fate in Slovenia. Now some casinos just strike because they don't have enough money and they're losing. It turned out that golf would not be able to be used in such a form of service, although it was the closest. So how do you imagine, Madam Minister, that Lipica will survive to carry some money herself, so that she will not depend solely on taxpayers? This would be too much in these times of crisis and for its future. Other places where horses can take care of themselves. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u141	Madam Minister Majda Shirtz, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u142	Dear Member, let's get something straight. Lipica is a luxury, but not in that sense as you tried to ask me in the question yourself, luxury in this case is also a cost. Lipica is a luxury, is a natural, cultural heritage, with breed, protected and even after the top entered on the trial list of Unesca. This is the greatest luxury Slovenia has, and if Slovenia wonders whether this is expensive, let us give a little more golf and a little more gambling to be less expensive then it means that Slovenia does not even know what this luxury is like a natural cultural heritage, what with its breed, its tradition and its history. You yourself said that for Lipica something was important: horsemen, gambling and golf. That's not true! The other two activities are parallel during a period of time, Slovenian history, came together, seized, golfed, 50 hectares of land, which is intended for pasture. And you have seized some activity that should not be primarily primary and should not be in the minds of people as primary, because the primary activity in Lipica is the protection of horses, the protection of horses, the breeding of horses, the protection of cultural heritage, the protection of natural heritage and the protection of cultural heritage as well as living heritage. Not only nature, but also culture, not just territories, but also Montenegro's galleries, museums and so on. I agree that in the past it went quite wrong in Lipica, not all, at the end of twenty, thirty years ago there were some important investments even more later were made step by step. However, illusions here, I don't think we should work, so that this activity, which is a boutique activity of primary national importance, can be maintained by selling itself, selling golf clubs and selling tourist destinations in a way of bus tourism, and not boutique tourism. There can be boutique tourism, the whole region can be involved. In fact, these plans have not been taken seriously enough, and I believe that the new leadership, which is now in Lipica and which has received and accepted this challenge, is doing so. To do so in terms of expanding the golf course for the remaining 60 hectares, which means that it would have already reached 100 hectares of territory, which was essentially intended for grazing, but I do not think that this is a national interest. It may be the interest of golfers, golfing there works well in the sense that it also manipulates the trademark, but this is not a suitable answer. As far as the differences of opinion are concerned. The meeting of the Government, which took place in Lipica, also to focus on all the efforts that have been made in the last year, two in the rehabilitation of Lipica. By the way, for the rehabilitation and revitalisation of Lipica, the Ministry of Economy has also reserved €9 million under European funds, which means that, for example, the very broken-down walls of hotels can be restored. But this meeting wanted to focus some emphasis on this government, which was linked to the development of tourism in Slovenia in general. And there was also a special point about Lipica at this meeting. And at this meeting there was also another special point for which I myself wanted to be included, this was the second point, and it was aimed at understanding culture, cultural heritage, cultural destinations, cultural creativity in the light of the promotion of tourism. We weren't talking about golf. There was talk of golf at a press conference. And even now we are talking about this, it is right to talk, but yet I advocate for myself that there is nothing to do in Lipica golf, because we are dealing with cultural heritage there, with destination, perhaps the once acquired UNESCO sign, and also for many things that are useful and necessary for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorn, are you suggesting that you complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Actually, I didn't ask you that or you did a little bit of reverse of what I said. I didn't say Lipica was a luxury. I said there are three activities, it's true, but they're all about Lipica surviving on her own. And yet here there is something to be said about golf, even though I don't play golf and I won't. Toscana has about 17 golf courses. Toscana is a single cultural historical monument. They didn't take that golf course from her. What's here is a golf course and what's supposed to be spreading, as they supported ornithologists, biotech colleges, SAZUs, foresters, except for that oak that under certain conditions Natura 2000. And for this is an interested municipality, and so on, a new director who has come to the point that the best of all activities would be to leave nine or eight more holes in the golf course, so that he could be a comprehensive programme that would carry money. This golf is domesticated, the least it destroys things, and it's somehow figured out. That's what we're wondering. It's a traveling circus your government is kind of cute. He's not exactly polyphonic, he's more cacaphonic, but I think there are serious differences in you, too, and that this is the way to let golf go, but also real. Because now there are two hotels, 20% occupied. One of them is so ugly that in the past he was even protected, culturally protected, because they thought that the barracks were from between the two wars, and now it's working again. But I'm sorry, it's ugly, it stinks, and it doesn't fit anyone else to sleep there. You're gonna have to deal with something.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u146	A good year ago, when we set up a new world in Lipica, which we know is the main manager and the custodian and the decision-maker of the cobial development itself, this is the report. We have never shown this report to the public, but the new members of the world wanted to know the state of the matter, I will say, Brejce's script for the development of Lipica, and they went through all segments of the activity of Lipica, through breeding, through horse riding, through the protection of cultural heritage, through health care, through improvisation, through care and care, through genealogical books, a breeding program. And this report is a monster; it's a monster because it says it was management, I'm not going to say that in the last period, but probably sometime before, bad. And if this government wants something, it's that something like this would never happen again. The previous direction went in the direction of golf and therefore there was no use of funds. Various studies have also brought desires, and we know how these studies have been done. But serious research into what this means for the establishment of golf in Lipica, and we didn't actually get it. By the way, that hotel that the current director recognizes as a suitable basis for repairing it is that what literally sticks to the wall, because it's destroyed from the outside, is being handled. That hotel got Presher's award. However, I must say this: Slovenia has only one cobala with the Lipicans, and this is in an authentic location. But there's, I think about ten, if not more, golf courses and there's plenty of room for them to show up somewhere else. But it is unreasonable that they appear in the context of something else, which is the education of the Lipicans, the care of their origin, and also the maintenance, for there are only 7,000 of them in the world. And if we lose them - in the past it has shown that we will - then that means we do not understand what an identity or national benefit is in a broader sense the meaning of that word. I therefore expect that the management plan prepared by the institution and endorsed by the government will bring reasonable solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I didn't get the right answer. The question was: What will Lipica live on with her horses? It won't be from the horses. I would therefore like to see the Minister's reply under the Rules of Procedure open to a broader discussion at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Zorn, we will vote on your proposal tomorrow, as part of the vote. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, who will ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Mr Minister, you are well known for your many meetings with your base, teachers, principals, parents, students and other representative organisations, and you like to say that Slovenian school is a good school. Your support for calming the school field is also well known, but it is possible to detect more than once such a statement of yours which is reflected in the space. One such statement was that the volume of learning material should be reduced by approximately 20% in order to reduce the number of work volumes, textbooks and teaching materials by approximately the same percentage. The considerations were also given national knowledge tests, you announced rationalisation and a greater proportion of what is related to internal verification, changes in the school calendar, and you could also describe what has been announced and, in fact, in the area covered by the preparation of the new White Paper. The adoption of the new White Paper is expected on 1 March 2011. And when Dr. Janez Krek, who was in charge of the project, considered the foretold changes, he felt that action and radical changes were not necessary. There is also a question that has different answers. Some argue that our students and students are burdened with learning material, while others argue that they are less burdensome than other European schools. But this path would still link the question to what was mentioned at the outset, namely, the scope of the teaching substance and the number of work volumes or textbooks. So I'd like to ask you: How will the announced changes affect the quality of knowledge acquired and the autonomy of teachers in the selection of teaching materials? I am asking you this particular question because part of your responsibility to choose work volumes has also been transferred to the world of parents. However, your efforts to strengthen the autonomy of school premises and in this regard also the autonomy of teachers and teachers are well known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Lukšič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u152	Dear Vice-President, President! Thank you for your word. Ambassador, I am pleased with this question, because it is somehow the right time to address these issues, which we have already announced publicly, even at the meetings that have been mentioned here, with parents, representatives of parents, representatives of teachers, administrators, trade unions. So it's some upgrade to what's already working in our school system, and that's why Slovenian school is a good school. Now the question is very large and would require a very long answer, but if we limit the matter only to numbers and to basic messages, this could be the case. So 20% of the reduction in material at the Ministry was predicted based on the discussions we had with teachers, representatives of the profession, who found that the substance was large and that all the materials could not be processed throughout the year, so that students and students could win it. So the key story is not to reduce, relieve or release school, but the key message of this measure is to get an extra time to really build on basic knowledge. In recent years, we have witnessed some addition of the substance to the gallop by launching an initiative on all sides, so the autonomy of teachers has gone in this direction to add, the autonomy of individual professions has gone in this direction to add to the curriculum of additional substances and then also into implementation. There are also many students and students left behind, so suddenly there is no room to fortify in the truth those fundamental skills, especially when we are talking about primary school, some basic knowledge. So, say, a lot of teachers observe in high school that they get a student who is convinced that he is illiterate. Well, this can't be happening to us. Basic labelling, basic accounting operations, i.e. reading, expressing, in a variety of ways, in the mother tongue and possibly in another foreign language, is the basis. And that's why we have to fight for a while, but what's important is that we stop the process of accumulation of knowledge and start dealing with quality, which means we look at what kind of students come from primary schools, what kind of students come from high schools. So this is this part that's bound to quality and packed in, say, 20% reduction of substance. We've taken things quite seriously. At the Institute of Education, we have formed a team of experts who have already appointed individual groups for individual subjects that are currently reviewing curricula and will not change curricula, but simply set priorities. On this basis, we will come up with some suggestions to go ahead and listen to the priorities. In principle, we said that 80% of the existing substance must be the one on which it will work so that all the students can control it. As for books, textbooks, textbook prices, we also made some suggestions. The Ministry does not have the direct competence to determine which textbooks are counted, nor does it have the authority to choose which of the textbooks comes to any school. This is the responsibility of teachers, individual teaching assets, to decide and propose to school funds how to change the titles of textbooks. We are, because we have found that the price of textbooks is very high, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Saints, school councils, have also introduced into the textbook decision-making system, so that in this part where parents are present, they can also decide how long textbooks change, because this changes [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Majda Potrat, supplement the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you for that part of the answer. And I'd like to continue with where you've actually pointed out the problem. During the previous term of office, we have exempt work volumes from the competence of the Sectional Council and this is no longer a decision, it no longer confirms the work volumes. The textbooks are still in his domain. From then on, some felt that it would be better to relax the decision completely and be the teacher or teacher who would choose for herself among the textbooks offered. Of course, it is not only a question of price, it is mainly a question of the quality of the textbook. Because it is known that textbooks are much better at guiding a teacher through the learning process than the curriculum itself. The question arises, though, is whether our teachers and teachers are qualified enough to recognize a good textbook among those offered. According to some, it is again two diametrically opposed opinions. Some believe that the offer is too wide, others believe that the offer is still too small. Therefore, on the one hand, we are faced with initiatives to limit our choice and possibly bring it back at a time when a single textbook for one subject was available. It is true, however, that two studies have been carried out for textbooks of biology and geography, and it has been found that a number of improvements could be made in the content if we also wanted to improve efficiency. This seems very important to me, especially because in international trials of knowledge we find that ours are lagging behind especially because of poor understanding of the texts. What do you plan to do about this problem? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u155	Mr. Minister, Dr. Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you for asking. We have also recently intensified our activities in this direction. The point is that we are also trying to examine textbooks in this way, to see how the trend has been in recent years. And the findings show that we still have a lot of reserves in the textbooks. It is said that the substance is mediated, how it is folded together and how it works, affects the process of reception through the brain screws. This is a complex material, which is in one part academic and which is carried out by experts, but in the other part is an executive school and concerns the Ministry of Education. In this academic work, the matter is set maximum and experimented, which is, say, Dr. Justin's research shown how to achieve better results in optimising text in textbooks. I think we have some results here, but we still have some free space yet, but I have to say that our textbooks are good, on a good level, and that the publications have done a lot of work here. We are going this way to try to gradually transfer as many of this material as possible to new media, i.e. to electronic form. In the past, the Ministry has either wasted or spent a lot of resources on developing electronic materials. It's owned by the Ministry. So these materials, which are accessible online to all students, do not need to be paid separately. The problem is, these e-constructions don't have textbook status. Now the point is, if we go to this logic that we don't have to confirm the textbooks anymore, no, then we've got some ready-made material here that can serve as a textbook. But since we know that not all students and students are equipped with computers, of course this is something that is a matter of the future, but must be available. We at the Ministry are aware that this must be one way. I don't really get warmed up to stop the textbook validation. Just because we have bad experience in other materials that are not [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] has gone through the validation process, and it seems to me that this practice, as it is now, is relatively good, but we will correct this validation rule [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Respectable. My question is, in fact, relatively short, yet such content as to require a broader introductory explanation. 21. On 4 this year, we discussed the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior in the National Assembly. At that time, I did not get answers to a number of questions, but in particular I did not get an answer to the question why a contract was concluded with Ram Invest, a private company owned by Mr Pogačar, who is a family friend of the Minister. In fact, this contract was concluded at a monthly rate of €136,000, and the gentleman is paying 125,000 a meal to the bank, which means that he gives 11,000 a month in his pocket, while at the same time his building will be after 20 years. Under such conditions, the Ministry of the Interior could also be in debt, a loan could be taken by the Government, a country, anyone, and this building would be state after twenty years. That was the data I was talking about. I was talking about them because I had enough documents in my hands to point out that, even though I knew that day that they weren't right. Specifically, accurate data is significantly worse. This means that the gentleman will be the owner of the building within ten years at a certain position of €8 million, which came a day in the media a day later. At that time, I also pointed out that the unreasonable price of 13.06 euros is for all the spaces where garages and other auxiliary spaces, covering 40% of the total area, are included. In fact, for the garage, for garage squares meters you will pay up to €7 in Ljubljana and not €13.06. This means that those office premises are leased for 23 euros. You can read in one of the Slovenian newspapers that there is a building in Vienna called the Millenium Tower and that you can rent office space from 8 euros ahead, but it does not exceed 18 euros. In Ljubljana, however, we have put up €23 for this, speaking only of office space. Later, Prime Minister Pahor placed the mentioned entrepreneur on the blacklist. Which doesn't help. He can put anyone on the blacklist if he's already got 2 million euros a year. But the question I have is this. Madam Minister, according to the very clear information that exists, before you engaged the National Investigation Office, you were looking for other ministries, other tenants, to provide for the rental of this building. I'm asking, who are these ministries? Who were you calling and who were your subordinates calling to secure this lease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Katarina Kresal will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Member. It's true. We had an interpolation. It lasted more than 12 hours. I believe that I have said more than enough there and that I have demonstrated my conduct there and defended them, not least I am still Minister of Home Affairs. But only for the introduction, because you are very fond to suggest a degree of friendship with Mr. Pogacar. I've told you many times, and I would appreciate it if you respected me, because the only thing I can do is know what kind of relationship I can have with someone. We know each other and have met several times, and this is the degree of our friendship; even otherwise, we sat together several times to be completely accurate, with what I said before, and of course also with interpretation. In order for there to be no mistake, Ram Invest, whose owner is Mr Pogačar, is giving away quite a few premises to this country and broadcast them even in the time of your SDS government. However, with regard to your questions, what procedures I have conducted and similar, I must point out that I myself have not conducted any procedures, I have not engaged any ministers, no secretaries of state and no other servants to carry out the tasks you are referring to. I am the Minister of the Interior and I am head of the Department of Internal Affairs, not of other departments. As you yourself know, because you are currently following this topic, the Ministry of the Interior is facing a very severe spatial problem, the means to buy new spaces, of course, we do not have. When we discovered that it was impossible to move to the palace of your Minister Matei in Litostorski, but not only because there was a number of violations on the way there, but also because the MNZ could not stand there for national security reasons, we started looking for some partial solutions that would at least partially ease our spatial distress. Well, one such solution turned out to be relatively close. As you know, our main premises on 2 Stefano Street and in the next building, which holds together with this building, are divided by only one wall, were the premises or still the premises of the court and the District Attorney's Office. In the search for a rational solution, however, how to increase the space on Stefan, where people are in impossible working conditions, we found that it might be good to agree with users on the other hand to simply remove this wall in between, to extend the spaces in which the MNZ works, if, of course, the D.A. agreed to go to some other convenient and local suitable premises. This seemed to us more than prudent, from a material, functional, financial point of view. With the Ministry of Justice under which the prosecution belongs, we therefore checked this possibility, and several discussions were held on the possible transfer of the prosecution and the court to another location. Representatives of both ministries checked several locations: Del's tower, the Slovenian business building, the metal business building, the Tobacco complex, as well as the building on Dimičeva Street. For the site on Dimičeva was also one of the proposals to move into new premises together with both the National Investigation Office and the District State Prosecutor's Office. In fact, at the same time we started to think about the premises for the National Investigation Office. Why this thought - because the nature of their work is such that they cooperate a great deal. Finally, the procedures led by the National Investigation Office are ultimately directed by the State Prosecutor's Office. And such cooperation could be even better if it were at the same location. Well, in the end, the D.A. with none of the locations and with the possibilities of housing disagreed, and that's where this case ended. Otherwise, in discussions between the two ministries, the staff of the two ministries involved in the nature of their work, no one specifically engaged them to me, but they did their normal jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u161	Dr. Gorenak, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u162	Look, of course it would be good if you finally answered what I'm asking you, because otherwise I'm forced to repeat these questions. Last April 2009, this is well ahead of the time the premises for the National Investigation Office were searched, the police criminal prosecutors informed: "You are moving to Dimičeva." There is an official record - a magnetogram of the National Assembly meeting of the committee I run. The prosecutors were surprised, they couldn't believe what was going on, how they would move, why would they move, and the prosecutors said, "Oh, you may have misunderstood that." At the beginning of July last year, you called the prosecution or your associates, I apologize, called the prosecution and said, "The Minister of the Interior wants to visit the premises of the District Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana because she is interested in your working conditions." This is as if the Minister of Labour is interested in the working conditions of one of the 10 ministries which does not run it. That should be of interest to Mr. Zalar. Of course, they wondered why you were actually interested in it, and they reluctantly realized that they actually had good spaces. This ended, but your cliently subordinate called, and this is Mr. Minister of Justice, and he said, "I want a meeting with you." And there was a meeting where Mr. Zalar showed them pictures of the building on Dimičeva Street and convinced them how in bad places they work, that they cannot work there and that it is necessary to move on Dimič's street. Look, this shows - on what? This shows that the LDS client, in the image of two ministers, with you in charge as client leader, has engaged for premises at [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which he rents, which is the property of Mr. Pogačar. [[...]] And I don't think that's acceptable. There were some such conversations, some such calls, including to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, I really don't know why you're asking me if you're not even listening to my answer. I said we talked to the Ministry of Justice about the potential relocation of the D.A. Why with the Ministry of Justice - not because it is run by my client's colleague, but because the prosecution belongs to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice in this case decides on possible changes in the location. Why the D.A.? Because he's our neighbor. On the other side of Stefan 2, only the wall would have been pierced, the door would have been made and there would have been additional space. Of course, all under the conditions that the prosecution agrees with the new premises that they are good and are approximately equivalent. And, of course, at the beginning of the year, we have put the National Investigation Office as a priority and since then we have known that there will be a need to find spaces at some point. Thus, the fact that the premises need to be found is not something that happened a month before the end of the year, when the National Investigation Office began to operate. But that's probably clear to you. And once again, you've obviously heard this, the representatives of both ministries have checked several locations, including Del's column, the Slovenians business building, the Metalka business building, the Tobacco complex and also the Dimičeva facility, which was, of course, on the market. Well, none of these facilities fit them, so they said, "We're not moving," and they didn't move. What the Ministry of Health did for its own account is their question. Maybe ask the former minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you. Of course, I propose a debate on this issue because the reason for this is in the following. Look, we're getting information right after the drops. In droplets. I now make this very clear, Mr President. After drops we get some information - from the fact that nothing happened, to the fact that something happened, to the fact that the premises were rented for such and such money, which is the most favourable, then we prove that they were rented under the worst conditions, so that in fact they could rent more favourable places in Vienna and so on. In short, there's a drop of this stuff coming in. And the secretary under someone, I don't know, under a firm or a secret, like the last time on the board, is trying to cover some things up. But, I mean, frankly, it's -- sorry -- suspicions of serious crimes committed by this party. And that is the fundamental reason that all the authorities - the police can't move anyway in the given case as long as they have the current minister - but that there are other things in this area to encourage the other authorities. For example, Mr Kos, who immediately finds corruption in many things - he will not find it here! In short, I think it is useful that it is also necessary for two parties, in particular the SD's leading party, to get rid of this heavy burden, which is called the rental of these premises, because it is obvious that this space has been negotiated and prepared in advance - among other things, that the glass should have already been ordered, which will be impenetrable. How would he know?Oh, my God! But well, it's a matter of debate that will follow. I am convinced that it would be useful, and most responsible, in particular for the leading party, the largest party in the National Assembly, to support this debate because it will free itself from problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, your proposal to discuss the Minister's response to the National Assembly will be voted on tomorrow as part of the vote. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. In 2006, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships was established by reshaping Ad Future. Since then, given that students have partly contributed to the concession fee of 3% of the funds then allocated to this fund, it is mainly intended for staff scholarships. In recent years, the Fund is expected to receive between €6 million and €7 million annually, totalling €24 million from this title, which remains unused after writing the media. There's probably more than one reason. I'd like to ask you to tell us. More problematic, however, is the fact that the Fund is expected to attach these funds to various banks each year, with more than €500,000 of interest already being generated by it as its own revenue and spending it on its own needs. What I'm interested in is: Has this fund properly tied up or is it right to use these funds for, I don't know, their own work, their own operation? Should I be spent on scholarships? I am interested in the fact that the fund is also responsible for the distribution of state scholarships, and we have already supported the efforts of the student organisation, so that the censorship may change in the sense that there would be more scholarships and that it actually makes no sense that this money remains. What do you intend to do about it? For when the fund was asked by the media, they claimed to be limited by this law on scholarship and employment and unemployment insurance. And you predicted that you would not change the law on scholarship until 2011. It would probably make sense, given the fact that we know that the problem is that the scholarship is too small to do more in this area. While you say that the small part of the scholarship bill will increase and increase, we also know that it will no longer be for minors. So just to believe and to wait for this to happen, it's putting a lot of students in trouble. I'm so curious: What will you do about it? How much money was actually left unused in 2009? What, given what I said, will happen in 2010?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Ivan Svetlik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u170	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, other Members and Members. You ask for two types of scholarships, these are state scholarships and human resources scholarships. We have a third form, these are Zois' scholarships. As far as state scholarships are concerned. First, let me say that the rebalancing for this purpose was 110 million, 111 million, and that some of these funds were then redistributed to the unemployed around 10 million. There are many reasons why we did this. Firstly, in the 2008/2009 study year, the law adopted by the previous government on scholarships entered into force. Although this law raised the entry threshold for the State grant, it also included a child allowance and some other types of income in the income to be taken into account, which resulted in a decline in the number of State grants immediately after the entry into force of this law. The second reason is that they began to grant state grants to social work centres which obtained income data directly from DURS, but no longer on the basis of records and evidence, which again led to the fact that the centre, as it turns out, had data on more incomes than was usually shown in previous practice. This is the second reason why there were fewer scholarships. The third reason why fewer of these scholarships is the decline of the generation of those who have asked for these scholarships. I must also say that in 2009, we corrected this law and slightly raised the threshold for obtaining a scholarship, which, of course, is also known in the number of scholarships this year, so that since 2008, there have been 34 000 scholarships awarded this year and 41500 state scholarships for 2009-2010. But it also follows that it is not the essential money that is reserved for scholarships, but the criteria on which someone can qualify for a scholarship; it is said that this is what is essential. As far as human resources scholarships are concerned, however, they are in the domain of the Human Resources Development Fund and the grant. These are indeed earmarked funds, which are also received from the student’s concession fees. There are more problems here. Of course, the main problem is that there is no interest in these scholarships. There is less for employers and even less for students, and these scholarships remain unallocated, and apparently these scholarships are a kind of too much commitment, as it seems, for an individual, a young person to commit to staying with a specific employer for a certain period of time after receiving this grant. Of course, it also indicates the extent of these needs. However, it is also true that human resources scholarships in certain areas, in particular deficit areas, are listed, which is of course the least interest in studies. And these scholarships are smaller every year, and so these funds that you're asking about are more in line each year. These funds are being increased, they are not being given anywhere by the Fund, they remain here in accordance with the new law that we are preparing this year, and I hope we can also change the purpose of these funds so that really these funds can come to those who are studying and thus help themselves to study. I think it'll be a valuable resource to get us into the new scholarship system. And there's Zois' scholarships. If I are already mentioning data that are more every year, and let me say that from 2008 to 2009, the number of these scholarships has increased from negative 13,000 to 14700. If you look at how the scholarship system works in reality, the number of scholarships, in full view, has increased significantly and, of course, we are also relevant to this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] from one source or another. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, please. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u172	You didn't answer my question. If there's too much money for human resources scholarships, I know we can't just give it to the state. But I guess you should, if there's anything - because I know what a few people have been rejected, and probably not just because - you'll fix me. But above all, I'm interested in: So where does this surplus go? If he's putting it somewhere now, we could probably find out that we have money left there sooner than in four years, and we'd do something about it. You said we'd settle this with a new law. I don't know what law you're talking about: the Small Work Act, or the Grant Act, if we know you're not going to fix it until 2010. How much of that money was left in 2009 then? How long will it be in 2010? How much is interest on this if it's going somewhere? Are you covering your budget deficit or what are you doing with this money?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u173	Minister Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. See, as far as the funds are concerned, they remain, as it were, according to the fund, they are also invested. It is true that interest is also paid and therefore less resources are needed from the budget to finance the operation of this fund - simply put. That's how these funds are waiting for a new marriage. However, as it is said, the existing law provides that only human resources scholarships can be granted. Of course, if there is no interest, then there is no other purpose. The Fund has worked hard and I think it is quite successful that, where possible, these funds have been paid, say, to a greater extent for students from substitution, as well as for exchange of students between countries, but this interest was not so great that they could spend these funds. But as they said, they didn't go anywhere. The new regulation of scholarships will follow two paths; the state grants are already governed by the law on eligibility from the public, which is already in the National Assembly and will be presented here in a short time, advocated and, I hope, also adopted. The second is the new law on scholarships, which will also be ready by autumn and will also regulate other types of scholarships, so that this area of scholarship will be fully reorganized.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Or Minister Majda Širc also excused her further cooperation in person with Mr Jožet Jerovšk. Will you ask me a question? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, the Minister explained to me the reason for the urgent early departure and I accepted it with understanding, so I will ask a question and wait for the answer at the next meeting. So in Slovenia, in the current government and your ministry, Madam Minister, the freedom of the media and independent press reporting is drastically reduced. This is noted by the annual report of Freedom House, where Slovenia slipped from 39th to 52nd and is only between Central and Eastern European countries in the seventh place for Estonia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. It is known what is the concept of free press for the development of a free democratic society and the existence of democracy, and therefore the Slovenian public is rightly concerned when sliding into the swamps of media freedom. In Slovenia, the power with the hands of capital owners puts pressure on the media, editorial policy and journalists. The evidence of pressure and the full political takeover of public services in the field of media, especially RTV, is considerable. Let me quote a member of the programme council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, journalist Saš Hribar, who says in an interview for the evening: "At this moment national television is more political than ever." The statement shall indicate all the methods of authority. It is a national shame, Madam Minister, that, in the context of the prosecution against the criticisms of the arbitration agreement, the chase ordered and sponsored by the Government, in some unscrupulous media, insult the undisputed moral and intellectual size of author Boris Pahor. And even if they hide under the goats, the voices, etc., it's low. The purpose is clear: discredit because he raised his voice. And this discredit, despite the great struggle against all totalitarianism, the great warrior for the rights of the Slovenians in Italy, the academics, the winner of many world literary awards and the candidate for the Nobel Prize. However, in Slovenia it is now desirable to insult Boris Pahor, age and cultural icon. Madam Minister or Minister Gregor nothing. Since the current authorities have violated and abused legislation that guarantees freedom of the media and public opinion, I ask the Minister: Is he still preparing legislation to legalise media and journalists? I also ask the Minister: Does he assume objective responsibility for Slovenia's severe slide on the press freedom scale? I also ask: Is it not the time for freedom of the media and public words to become a value again in [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, your proposal will be answered orally by the Minister at the next meeting. Mr Bevk as Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, now has a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The R-3/T-912 national road on the railway-Davča-Novaki route was almost completely destroyed in the wake of the catastrophic floods that hit Slovenia on 18 September 2007. The road leads to the largest Slovenian village of Davča, where 284 people live on scattered hill farms. The road is also the main transport link of the Cerkno Ski Centre with central Slovenia. At the visit of the Director of the Directorate for Roads last November in Cerknem, the municipalities of Cerkno and Železniki and the ski centre were given the assurance that the reconstruction of the road will be completed by mid-2012. Last week, a government delegation also visited Davčo, headed by President Borut Pahor and ministers of environment and space and defence. They looked at the results of the natural disaster recovery in September 2007. The floods then destroyed, among other things, 8 km of roads between the Railways and the Tax Office, and the flood wave took them all to individual sections. As is the case today, the normal lives of people and the further development of this area are hampered. Only due to the interruption of the connection through Tax at the Cerkno Ski Centre is it estimated that 15% of the dropout occurred, both in winter and summer tourist season. Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič asks: How is the rehabilitation of this road going and when will the road be fully restored? Thank you very much in advance for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you. Your Honor! Road R-3/912, the tourist road was repaired after the flood in 2007 in the framework of the merger, so that it was possible to decommission traffic. Asphalt was also a compulsory road. The rehabilitation is now being continued in the framework of investment works, with phased construction envisaged for the section of Zali Log-Divača 37,856 metres by 2015. The investment is estimated at EUR 7.8 million. The recovery is as follows: in 2008-2009, the first phase was carried out at 1,000 metres and at the value of a million 200 and about a million 300 thousand euros, in 2009-2010, the work continued at a second stage of 500 metres, with a value of slightly less than 700 000 euros, and the deadline for completion of the second phase was 30.8.2010. All project documentation for the continuation of the construction was also produced and a revision of the projects is under way with the completion date of June 2010. In 2010, the construction is expected to continue; in the second half of the year, the tender will be for the third stage. The following work will be carried out gradually by 2015, when the rehabilitation is completed, depending on the funds provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. By 2010, approximately EUR 3 million had been invested in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the road. Estimated dynamics: in the 2010-2011 budgets there are twice as many as €450 000, in 2012 in NRP 500 000, in 2013 600 000, in 2014 million and in 2015 slightly less than 4 million. That is how this moment is recorded in the budget. We will see what the balance will be like, and we will see how it will be done by means of state roads; and we will see if anything can be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Complementing my question or supplementary question. The visit of the President of the Government and Minister Jelusic and Minister Žarnic in Žarnici triggered great expectations, so I read in the newspaper that they expect a lot from Pahor: In railways two and a half years after the floods again the government delegation. And after visiting the address in an article in Del: Is the road in Tax really soon arranged and safe? And President Pahor said a little bit of a joke at the very end: "In a year I come back to visit, then you can either give me a glass of wine or one around my ears." But there's something else I'd like to say. The characteristic of projects on all state roads is that they are very, very fragmented to work on small sections, with small resources, so this rehabilitation is also divided from 2007 when the flood took place and until 2015. In my view, we should pool more resources on one project and complete it in a short period of time. Let me mention, for example, with us between Idrija and Godovic through Zalo for decades, reconstruction takes place in pieces, it could be combined into a larger project and at a shorter time interval and the effect would be greater. That's what I think applies to [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This project in Tax. [[...]] I would suggest, Mr Minister, given also the promise for 2012 to hurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u184	Now I'm going to be very honest with you. Okay, somewhere we're gonna have to take other state roads and do it here. That's one option. Wait, please, let's do this debate when there's a budget rebalancing in Parliament, and then if I get an order from the Prime Minister to do it, we'll do it; but somewhere else, we'll have to take this money or I won't take it so much now that the state budget. So, Members, I'm counting on us to say something about this at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, according to some information, the Ministry of Defence is preparing to reorganise the administrative work of the Ministry, which means that some organisational units around the country are expected to be abolished in the future. The truth of the matter has already begun to close. Koroška lost her defence administration years ago, and now the poverty of this part of Slovenia continues. The whole Koroška region, which is not recognised by this government as a region or province and is drawn somewhere in a future landscape map somewhere between Celje and Krapina, is without any active military work, lost military facilities, and now civilian administrative parts are being abolished. And it is obvious that the request for the abolition of the Slovenian Army of Koroška has already taken place much earlier, although we can also recall this place and add that in the war for Slovenia, the first victory in the struggle for independent Slovenia was the battle for other parts of Slovenia, which brought great courage. Dear Minister, I do not see savings alone if the people working today in Dravograd, Ravna or Slovenj Gradac will do the same work in Celje or Ljubljana. I think it's the opposite. Travel costs will further increase these labour costs. Or perhaps, on the other hand, do you intend to get these people who are now working in these offices or extremities to just throw everything on the road and manage it from one center or two centers in the country? Further, Minister, I would like to ask: Why, at the time that at least some in Slovenia are working towards decentralisation, have you reached out to express centralisation in this area? What reasons lead the Ministry to such a reorganisation? Which organizational units in Slovenia do you intend to shut down or to say better, unite and what results do you expect from this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u187	Madam Minister Jelusichova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. A well-respected choir. Indeed, there will be a reorganisation of the administrative department of the Ministry of Defence, because the situation in which we are, namely, a financial and economic situation, no longer allows us to persist with a very diversified administrative and administrative apparatus throughout the country. Above all, you need to know that the Ministry of Defence does not operate on the ground only through defence administrations, defence stations and offices, but also through the positions of the Department of Protection and Rescue, through the Inspectorate for Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, through military stations, through military units and so on. In short, the Ministry of Defence or the defence system still has a very large number of its units or forms of contact with the population on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is true that the work of the Ministry of Defence is greatly changing, even because the basic defence force, namely the Slovenian Army, will in the future not expand so much for financial reasons, as it has been envisaged in recent years. You know that in the past year we have carried out a strategic review of the Defence Department, in which we have found that the objectives set in 2004 with the document on general long-term development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces have not been achieved that the Slovenian Armed Forces will not be for 14 000, but that it is for 9300 at this time, and that we are very difficult to raise this number in the current situation. However, we expect that in the new SPRO, which begins its path through the government procedure and will also be available here in Parliament, we will have to reduce our appetites or ambitions regarding the size of the military in this document. This means that even the apparatus we need to acquire soldiers on the ground will no longer be needed to the extent that it has so far. This also means that serious consideration will have to be given to some of the other functions performed by the defence system so far on the ground or carried out to a very limited extent. Because tasks related to mobilisation plans, preparedness measures and similar defence systems are almost gone. These were the tasks left of the previous system from 20 years ago, they were also kept for some time in the new country of Slovenia, due to the expectation of possible conflicts in the Balkans and today, when we have an ally country in the Western Balkans, we cannot have such a large administrative and administrative apparatus. For us, therefore, most of the reasons lie in reducing some of the functions that we no longer perform, then in a financial situation and, of course, we also want to increase the efficiency of the Ministry of Defence's administrative work. The fact is that the Slovenian Army went through a massive transformation last year, through extensive consolidation. In the context of this process, there have been major changes in the adaptation to the fact that the Slovenian Army is significantly smaller, both this year and next year, in line with what you have accepted as the 2010 and 2011 budget. Since there is a new balance ahead of us, we do not pretend that there will not be a reduction in resources for the functioning of the defence system in this year's rebalancing, so it is only right that we continue very quickly with the reorganisation of the administrative work as it did in the military work. You're asking explicitly after which units we're going to shut down. I would like to remind you that we have many different types of units operating both at the functional level and at the level of relations between higher and lower units, as we also have different units on the ground. We haven't made any decisions yet. So at this point, we operate over six defence administrations and over eight defence stations, and these have a whole range of offices on the ground. And you found out correctly, indeed, some of these offices are no longer used because activities for these offices are simply gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u190	Yeah. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for this part of the answer. You have also received a letter from the Mayor of Dravograd, which reminds you that such a reorganisation will contribute to the fact that the Koros will not have equal access to the guarantee of rights under your ministry's jurisdiction. On the other hand, you know that the number of Korošci and Korošice, which are included in various forms of the Slovenian Army, is strong above the national average. Of course, you are now planning to abolish these offices that are performing tasks in this area. I agree with your response to rationalization, here I think we're all united. Of course, rationalisation may also be different, but in the past, at least in Koroška, you have not done so. For example, you leave the office in Dravograd and the premises are owned by the Ministry of Defence while you pay more than a thousand euros of monthly rent in Slovenj Gradec, where it has the seat of the exhibition. All of this, if we were going for rationalisation for Koroška, could all be settled from one place. Why not from Dravograd, which is some kind of geographic center of Koroška and where the country has its own premises? This is the way to pay for the premises in Slovenj Gradec, obviously because SD has a very strong influence there. So, Minister, if you can explain it in a word or two about this rent. On the one hand we have empty spaces in Dravograd, and on the other hand the country pays rent of premises in Slovenj Gradec. Is that rational?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We are also aware of such derogations that have occurred in recent years at the Ministry of Defence. You need to know that the establishment of a new state-owned public fund is under consideration, that there is also a public procurement agency in the establishment, and both systems will bring about some significant changes in state property management. As far as these strange situations are concerned, we are aware of them and try to get rid of them in various parts of Slovenia by withdrawing from all the places where we pay the rent. This process was launched at the end of last year and is continuing this year. So our purpose is to leave all the places where we pay the rent, to combine all the different parts of the system, is to say the protection and rescue system, the protection and rescue facility, the defence authority where they remain, the defence station where they remain, where they remain, to unite all of these in the same locations, in locations owned or managed by the Ministry of Defence. As a result, however, most of these buildings will be transferred to the management of the new public fund for managing the real estate of the country. In fact, we will no longer be asking these questions, where and how and who governs which ministry controls what. I expect that we will also eliminate such illogicalities, which are, even though it is necessary to say that it is not enough just to leave a designated office. It is also necessary to ensure that the people working there find another job for them. The fact is, some should drive quite far if they stayed in the same service they are now in. But you know that in the Slovenian Army it is already necessary to travel very far across Slovenia to the jobs or to the units where the jobs for Slovenian soldiers are. So far, officials in the administrative department have not had to travel very far. We have always made sure that we are or have sought jobs for them quite close to their homes. We are now in a situation where we are still looking for jobs, not in the same line or in the same defence administration, we are still looking very close to their homes of employment, but in some cases, as is the case with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we need somewhere else to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will also ask the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister. Just yesterday we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Manevre National Protection Structure, which in fact testifies to the observations of the creation of the new Slovenian Army. And it has been about that long since the Yugoslav People's Army ceased to operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I believe that some things are changing too slowly, especially in those areas where we are talking about the large complexes of the first-class agricultural land used by the Slovenian Army for training. I would like to point out in particular some major municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia where these so-called military polygons are named by locals. It is the training centre of Cerklje ob Krka in the Municipality of Brežice, it is Poček in the Municipality of Postojna and something small also in Divaca and it is for Apaches in the municipality of Kidričeva. I've only counted bigger. Maybe you'll tell us about some more. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What are the size of the land? In which Slovene municipalities are these sites located? Under what criteria does the Ministry of Defence pay municipalities that have training facilities some kind of compensation for the use of local infrastructure? What were these amounts in 2009? How high will these amounts be in this year’s year after individual congregations?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u195	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. The essence of your question is, however, in this final work, so you are interested in how we replace individual municipalities or how we literally pay them some kind of rent to share a certain local infrastructure, although you also ask about where all the exercises are in Slovenia. I must say that we already have very few large training sites where we can still train larger units of the Slovenian Armed Forces and that there were very many training sites and very many spaces belonging to the former Yugoslav army in Slovenia, already transferred to various other state bodies or to municipalities on behalf of the public interest. At places where military facilities once existed, there are many things that have been changed today. Schools were created, museums were created. Many of the land is transferred or even controlled by the Agricultural Land Fund, so that it is no longer fully used by the Slovenian Army. The larger one actually belongs to the Počk training centre you mentioned. The size of this exercise is 1,990 hectares, then the Bach shooting site, which measures 500 hectares. Among the larger ones can be the airport of Cerklje ob Krka, which is not considered to be a training centre, but rather an airport, which is occupied by 420 hectares, together with the exposed positions necessary for the management of such an airport. Otherwise, the municipalities in which these large buildings are key and with which we have an agreement on compensation for the joint use of local infrastructure are, as you have already found, Postojna, Pivka, Illyrian Bistrica due to the trainings of Poček and Bač, and because of the airport Cerklje ob Krka, these are the municipalities Brežice and Krško. How much of this money was allocated to this congregation in the past year? For the introduction only, these types of pensions have been granted to certain municipalities since 2004 and have been carried out in accordance with Articles 18 and 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Over the past years, from 2004 onwards to including last year, 2.6 million euros have been spent on this type of co-financing. Now, if we go in line, co-financing of EUR 33 000 649 was carried out in 2009 in the municipality of Postojna, which was to regulate documentation for one of the facilities we are now preparing together with this municipality for the coming years. Then the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica went to 145 thousand euros last year. A number of local projects were co-financed in the municipality of Brežice, in the context of the modernisation of Cerkelj, totalling EUR 259 000 858. Then you ask how many of these funds are planned for this year. I'll put it this way for once. In the budget you adopted last year, EUR 800,000 was foreseen for 2010 for this type of purpose in the budget. However, since there is a prospect of a rebalancing, and since this will be primarily on those activities that have not yet been started, I assume that this amount will be smaller in time after the rebalancing, but I find it difficult to say at this point how much less so. Therefore, I find it somewhat inappropriate to talk about the numbers that were envisaged for individual congregations this year. You're asking what criteria this is going on. The key criterion is always a percentage of the sharing of local infrastructure, namely, arrangements are made with each municipality individually, for each facility, for each part of the infrastructure individually. So for each road that we use together and which is burdened or increased by military activity, we agree on the percentage of co-use, and on this basis we will then agree with the congregation on the various parts that have been done to rebuild roads or other infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. You want to complete your answer, Mr. Marinic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much for a very transparent and comprehensive arrangement. A lot of what I wanted got answered. But there's something left in that list. Of course, it's a big deal. I do not know whether your professional colleagues have prepared this or have not been able to tell you little about the Municipality of Kidričeva, where there is a large number of shooting sites and about which, like some other training sites in Slovenia, they are talking about getting some modern funds, and in this connection they are promising and in some ways also misleading the citizens there to get modern infrastructure on account of, for example, building some modern shooting practice in the Municipality of Kidrič on the shootout of the Apache. Perhaps as a supplement: Can you answer me in this part? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u199	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you. Thank you for complementing the question. I have to say that I like that you've already found out that in some cases, it's a matter of deceiving. Why do people in the field say things they can't do? And you yourself know better how the defence budget, which comes from the balance sheet to the balance sheet, decreases from year to year. Last year's year has been severely reduced, this year's year, we have already been reduced by 14% in terms of planned funding, we are working again this year on the assumption of 14 percentage reductions in terms of planned funds, the rebalancing means a further decrease. Under such circumstances, projects such as building on a new, high-tech shooting range in Apaches will be impossible. And then to cultivate some expectation from this title that we will someday build a large new archery there, better than what is already there, in these circumstances is inappropriate today. What we want to do right now in Slovenia is to finish the shootings we have, which are in the middle of the works. It is mainly one of the shootings that is in the Kočevska River or in Šcryl, and we will not be able to start again. It is highly likely that on some sites that have been thought in the past to be built on them by large new modern military barracks and large new modern shooting sites, there will simply be no money and then it will be difficult to make any big promises to the local population so that they can also get any income from this title. I understand that people expect if very much military activity is taking place in their area, to expect some kind of compensation and it is highly likely that even if it were true that the Churches of Krk, where in fact the needs of the local population, such as shorter roads, the work of bonds, were included as part of the renovation of the airport itself, and this is actually an integral part of the costs of the entire airport. This was the way to work with the local community. And I believe that even in the case of Apache, if there were to be a construction of a new modern shooting site, there would also be talks about sharing local infrastructure with people, but at this point I must say that we are not in a position to promise anyone anything beyond what we actually have this budget allows.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Silva Črnugelj will ask the Minister of Economy Dr. Mate Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known ministers and ministers. Slovenia is changing with high energy intensity and energy consumption is increasing, partly reflecting its developmental problems. Increasingly expensive fossil fuels, ozone dumps, climate change, droughts, long rain periods, floods, reptiles, not to mention further, and the increasing use of energy resources forces the world and us, Slovenia, to think about how to get as cheap and therefore more efficient energy as possible, which will not pollute the environment as we have the case with fossil fuels. While the Slovenian environment, energy and state policy have reached a strong consensus on the need to support the promotion and development of renewable energy sources as well as the efficient use of energy. But theory is only one part, and our current practice is once again something else, as usual, that is always the case. Individuals in Slovenia already have an opportunity to use and use today, but we must also decide how and how we will deal with the use of this energy. And this decision is not easy, as is not an easy decision by planners, what will be the investment funds in renewables, how much a subsidy should be for individuals or natural persons, how we will motivate and stimulate small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, what assistance we will provide and what assistance the state will provide in doing so, and what training will be provided for part of the use of this energy. The action plan, which is also one of the guidance tools, should not have been managed by the Government, the Directorate and the Office and beyond, is the basis for directing energy within human already limited resources. It will probably be interesting to see how public institutions, institutions, administrative units and so on will respond to this plan. The Directive on the promotion of the effective use of renewable resources is largely a matter of concern. If you just tell me, given that I have asked this question: What stage are you in, I see that it is final? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. At its meeting on 22 October, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at its 55th regular session imposing on the Ministry of the Economy, in cooperation with the competent ministries, to draw up a national action plan for renewable energy sources. Let me say that we have also prepared this and that it is also today, 17 May, also published on the sides of the Ministry of the Economy, because as of today, a one-month debate has also begun in the general public, where comments, suggestions, proposals on this draft plan, which will then be assessed with external experts. Let me say that while it is very important that the national action plan in graves concerns three areas which are very relevant. One is traffic, where in the reference year 2,008, we had only about 122% of the energy consumed from renewable energy sources. According to the plan we have drawn up, we need to increase this share to 10% in line with EU requirements, and we plan to do so by using biodiesel and bioethanol, which are then mixed into other fuel engines. This is how we want to achieve 7% and 3% by using electricity in transport. Another such segment is heating, where we currently reach about 20% of renewable energy sources on the consumption side. So, from the whole consumption, when we talk about heating, it's only 20% of what it is about renewable energy. This share must be increased to 32.5% by 2020, which is an important challenge. However, we have a lot of natural resources, especially if we are talking about wood, which Slovenia has quite a lot, partly also about geothermal energy, solar energy, heat pumps, it is said that, above all, biomass is the potential that we need to make greater use of. And the third such segment is electricity consumption, where we are currently using around 29% of energy from renewable energy sources. By 2020, the target is 42% in the end-use structure. As I said, the action plan was published today and coincides in some way with your question on the side of the Ministry of Economy. However, this Action Plan concerns both the definition of objectives and the relevant actions in different areas, from production to efficient energy use. Let me say that the commitments we have as Slovenia by 2020 relate to both energy consumption from renewable energy sources, which we need to bring to 25% in aggregate, although the average for the rest is only 20%. And, of course, a 20% reduction in emissions. With regard to increasing energy efficiency by 20%, the matter is still open or is currently being discussed at the level of the European Commission, where an appropriate proposal is being prepared. I expect that by the end of the month this will also be one of the world's energy sector ministers in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Istok Podkrižnik will ask the question of the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnic. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me! I looked at you, Mrs. Črnugljeva, but I didn't see the intention of a complementary question. Of course we'll give you this business opportunity. Please, Mrs. Montenegro, you want an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you so much for your kindness. I just wanted to tell the Minister that there are high expectations of this action plan for 2010-2020. And these expectations are in all regions of Slovenia. People expect a lot, but of course these funds are not available. And it is good to know that there is also a need to give real publicity to the public in both ways and in what way. Ten years ago, Europe set up a special interdisciplinary commission of parliamentarians and experts who hosted a ten-year parliamentary anniversary in April and showed what and how to actually do if interdisciplinary work is very intensive and showed how some technologies that have not yet been established in this area have also been developed. I think that this action plan will actually be implemented and I wish him a good trip. Thank you very much for the opportunity for further questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u207	There was no further question, including a request to supplement the Minister's reply, but I am still asking the Minister whether he wants to answer the answer to a reply that has not been answered. [[He doesn't want to.]] Good. Then Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u208	President, thank you so much for your word. Together, we know what the priorities of municipalities are: clean water, managed utilities and transport infrastructure. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why do municipal spatial plans not contain comprehensive transport infrastructure, including cycling routes and sidewalks? This is mainly about the importance of tourism. We know that during the recession we are in, tourism in the EU group fell by 8%. There's a 1% drop in Slovenia. And here I see the perspective of this economic sector. I am also pleased and pleased that there has been a meeting between Prime Minister and Minister Lahovnik with representatives of the tourism economy, and here I think it is good to discuss these development issues where we can actually create some higher added value here. It is now being prepared, and there is also a new law on the economic sector of tourism in the procedure. This is about one billion dollars. I am afraid that there will be one high-quality drawdown of these funds, because with these UNPs, which are now confirmed and confirmed at the level of the municipalities, I think it will be very difficult to draw on these funds. Therefore, it seems to me that the priority here is that the actual Ministry of the Environment will somehow make it possible for the economists to be able to have this vision, which they already have, in some way, of projects, also new projects, so that they can reach the goal and actually create a higher added value, because tourism, I will say again, is a sector that can really help in this situation in which Slovenia is in a real recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! It's a very interesting question. I'll answer that part, then I'll make another comment on tourism if it's time. The municipal spatial plan is a fundamental spatial act of the municipality, as we know, and contains a strategic and implementation work. In addition, there are municipal detailed spatial plans. By definition, if this is not the case, it is likely not, but by definition, the OPN contains a comprehensive network of transport infrastructures, including cycling routes. And then again, the OPPN, detailed, also contains sidewalks. However, the guidance for the production of OPPNs is based on these more precise maps, on a scale of 1:500 and 1:5000, are set out in the basis of the OPN. So, according to the rules, the issue is not problematic, but it can happen that in what OPN at the time it was created, the cycling track was not foreseen, and later precisely because of what you mentioned, the needs of tourism appear, and then there were short contacts. With regard to the tourism you have mentioned, I should say that from the beginning, from what I am a minister, I am aware of this and I am very committed to it, especially to connecting on the map of nearby tourist destinations, when you are in one of these and far away. I would like to take a look at the existing transport links, including forest roads or anything. But most of all, I've been thinking out loud about the problem of Suča, in which we have invested a lot together, and we have to be careful that it doesn't get cut off. There is a tunnel near Bohinj where using this tunnel you could get on a train in Bohinj, get off at the Bridge on Sochi. There are ideas and desires of a tunnel near Vršič. I hope that when this financial crisis is slightly over, we will be able to talk about these things and thus contribute to tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Crossbow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u212	Now it's probably partly true here, as Mr. Secretary has just said. I think it's a bigger problem with coordination itself, it's with landowners, whether it's the Roads Directorate or if it's other owners across these smaller municipalities. I think that somehow this legislation should be corrected, supplemented so that we can get to these spatial plans more quickly. And it is true that some congregations work more intensively in this area, others less. Here I think we should really set some priorities, especially where tourism is likely to develop. I come myself from the Upper Savinja Valley, sometimes here really flourished tourism, today this thing has turned significantly, instead of going in the opposite direction. It is said that what was once good would have been upgraded, and today we would have benefited significantly from it. I'll say I'm ashamed to get a stranger to Slovenia, but I'd like to take him to Logar Valley, and I have to say it's such a road that I'm ashamed to show off this Logar Valley. And I must say that we really need to do something here in this area because Slovenia is beautiful and we can actually make something of this quality. And here I think we should really do one good analysis in Slovenia and also set these priorities and then also measure this part of how only work progresses. It is said that we really arrive within a reasonable period of five, ten, fifteen years, one goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u214	Maybe just a comment. I agree with you. I know an example in Slovenia where the cycling track of the local community is restricted by land owners. One story is that at the normative level, something is being done, and then the implementation is another matter. And here we must fight to make what we have accepted, what you have accepted here come into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Milan Čadež will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! During the years of adaptation of IPPC to the Directive, the Slovenian chemical industry has invested a lot of money in environmental projects and has also achieved compliance with the legislative requirements themselves. The country still has not issued environmental permits to these companies due to its own difficulties. This also exposes them to the risks of complaining to competitors before the European Court of Justice because of unfair competition. But we also know that civil initiatives have recently been active. However, even worse, I was informed that the ministry had also said a bad word over this industry, but they did not know on what basis. Of course, we also need to be aware that there are about 5,000 people in this industry and that they will need to be over-employed. I just want to ask you one basic question: Is maintaining the basic chemical industry also part of the strategy of the country of Slovenia? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u218	Your Honor! Thank you so much for asking. I'll get out of this last one first, and then I'll keep saying another thing. I talked to the Minister of Economy here before. I asked him if this strategy of the chemical industry was present with us, because it is more of an issue that is in the economic sector. He said that there are no precisely precise strategies for the basic chemical industry, but this is part of the Ministry of Economy's overall activity. However, as far as licences are concerned, the case is as I have already said, 156 are liable to obtain types of permits, of which 143 industrial plants and 13 regional municipal landfills are in this issue. To date, 129 permits for industrial facilities have been issued, and 14 permits are said to remain. Among them is some chemical industry. You remember very well the criticisms that came from Kopra when I mentioned the chemical industry. By the end of June, today at the College, I have also received assurances from Director Ars, and all the missing authorisations for devices will be issued, which is not necessarily positive. However, I must say that that, I have heard criticism that we have appointed some companies, has given rise to increased intensity towards a successful end to quite a few of them. So the criticism is sometimes welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Chadjeg's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u220	Given that you said 14 more permits were missing and will be issued by the end of June. I want to know, among those 14 who are going to be negative, do you have an alternative? What will the state do to preserve this alternative?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u222	At this point, whatever I say about success, they can have it all, whatever they want, I don't know. When it comes, let's say, for some device inside the complex, it's not necessarily the whole factory, it can only be one segment of the factory, to some negative one, is the first next process to solve the problem. If I get a negative grade in school, I'll learn a little more and try to fix it. And here it is. In the past we had, so my colleagues told me, when I was not yet a minister, some cases when in certain factories they somehow couldn't understand what Arso wanted. However, when negative opinions came to light, they quickly agreed, not at such a high cost. I don't think that this is your question and the suggestion that it will be done at the time, is true. There'll be another round of editing. But you need to know that we need to issue these positive or negative visas to Europe, and then there is a transitional period, a time when some of these things are still going to work out. There's no room for panic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Matvež Frangež will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. In 2002, I signed a letter of intent with my colleagues from Ljubljana and the Škis Association as President of the Maribor student organisation, which led to a few months later to a new student uprising, with the desire to ensure the strong and loud voice of Slovenian students and that this, unlike in the past, would be as unified as possible. Today this strong student voice invites Slovenian students to the street on Wednesday instead of sitting at the table negotiating what they should negotiate. Personally, I am convinced that without the knowledge and understanding of the student work system, as Slovenian students know, we cannot today build an effective, competitive, functioning small work system. And I personally deeply regret this decision of the student representatives not wanting to negotiate. However, a few arguments from the Slovenian Student Organisation before the planned changes in the field of student work, small work, still convince me. One of them is the requirement for multiple scholarships. I am convinced, Minister Svetlik, that it is unacceptable that today, when Slovenia wants to be a country that will open a wide range of opportunities for all its young people on the basis of equal opportunities, many students have to work if they want to study. The responsible authority - personally I am happy and support such responsible authority - would respond to such a challenge with multiple scholarships and higher scholarships. That is why, Mr. Minister, I am interested, given some of the public announcements you have already made: What changes in the field of scholarships do you plan to achieve this goal, more scholarships and higher scholarships in the country, and that people emerging from socially less perspectives will not have to work to gain the knowledge they need to meet the challenges they face in life and in the labour market?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I fully agree with the fact that the basic work of a student is to study. In order for this work to be done, it must also have the right conditions. For those of lower socio-economic categories, we are therefore concerned through scholarship policy. Our ministry has already amended the scholarship law in the past year, which has resulted in 7,000 scholarships more in the last year. Of course, we are not entirely satisfied with this because we consider that students should also have access to scholarships from slightly higher socio-economic categories, not only from the lowest, but potentially as much as possible. That is why, this year, we have made an intensive effort to address this issue, in the first place the issues of state scholarships, because these are targeted at the social and economic weakest groups. The Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which is already in the National Assembly, also sets out a special proposal and we are working to get this law on the agenda of the National Assembly as soon as possible. In this law, we substantially change the conditions for obtaining scholarships. This is about getting higher scholarships on the basis of these conditions. Let me point out that the price for obtaining a scholarship, a state grant, is moving from today to about €343 net per family member to €595 net per family member. This is more than a minimum wage, as you recall from the debates and the law that regulated it. We also propose to increase the amounts for basic scholarships. For the weakest students, the basic scholarship amounted to €190 per month and then gradually less for those with higher income per family member, but the lowest such scholarship would amount to €70. The basic scholarship also includes an allowance for distance from the place of study, for academic success, for deficits, bringing the lowest scholarship closer to EUR 400 and for lower scholarships with a similar factor. In this way, we estimate that about 10,000 more students will be eligible for a state scholarship, so the number that we have today at the hand or the number of recipients of a state scholarship among students today is 14,500, and the new rate would be 25 000. At the same time, let me mention that we are preparing new system-wide legislation for scholarships, which should also be regulated in another way by Zois's and his staff scholarships, and we want them to really play their part. In Zois' scholarships, we find that today we are primarily rewarding talent as such, but not to promote development based on talent, the development of the individual's ability. Here we need to substantially change the system in order to be able to really talent about this, Slovenia has talent, it has also been developed with our help. In this respect, we will thoroughly correct this system. Let me add that with regard to the proposals made by students, the student organisation, in this regard, when it comes to scholarships, and even when it comes to a little work, we are constantly open. If any other proposal comes forward, we are waiting until the end for constructive dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer. Please, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u228	Mr Minister, I am convinced that these are planned changes, which must also be supported in this National Assembly. I look forward to the debate when the laws or laws that are still being prepared are being drawn up before us to discuss them and to adopt them. However, the issue of student scholarships and changes in this area is being raised by part of the public on these announced changes. Perhaps it is a reasonable impression that we are improving the state of scholarships for students at the expense of student scholarships. I am sorry that this part of the question was not specifically raised, but I am interested in: how much money would be needed to possibly reduce funds in students or to abolish scholarships for persons under 18 years of age would not be necessary to implement the changes that are necessary and envisaged in the segment of persons over 18 years of age. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much. It would be ideal if the aid were higher but not lower, in any case, in particular in the case of lower socio-economic categories. I must say that for students, of course, state scholarships remain that the proposal to grant access to scholarships is to all full-year citizens in Slovenia, that is to say, when someone is 18, even if he is still a student, and most are still students at this age, they have access under the same conditions to the state grant. While we're proposing that these scholarships be suspended for students under the age of 18. In order to compensate for this dropout, we propose a substantial increase in the child allowance for secondary school children up to the age of 18, so that this increase is carried out in the amount of the social component of this state grant without any allowances. At the same time, I should point out that, in addition to this legislation, which will be addressed by the National Assembly, we are introducing a higher criterion as regards the possibility of access to social assistance for the weakest categories, even when it comes to secondary schools or others, namely, so far the so-called factor for a family member who is placed on 0.3, now increases, amounts to approximately 0.6 to 0.7. I don't have accurate information in my head right now. So these are two instruments that ensure that the social situation of high school students does not deteriorate. However, it would be desirable for us to have more resources for a wider population, and perhaps someday we will find out about the proposal to transfer these exemptions to scholarships, much more appropriate in our view than the current regime. But for once with this proposal, we have not succeeded. Maybe that's the next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Lah will ask the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkeš, who is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Despite the absence of the Minister, I would like to stress and ask the Minister a question and expect an answer at the next meeting. The Republic of Slovenia has ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government 15. 11. 1996. The preamble states this: The Member States of the Council of Europe, parties to this Charter, take into account that the aim of the Council of Europe is to achieve greater unity between its members in order to protect and realize the ideals and principles that are their common heritage. They take into account that one way to achieve this objective is to negotiate in the administrative field. They take into account that local authorities are one of the main foundations of each democratic regime. They take into account that the right of citizens to participate in public affairs is one of the democratic principles common to all Member States of the Council of Europe. They are convinced that this right can be exercised as directly as possible at local level, they are convinced that the existence of local authorities with actual tasks can ensure an administration that is effective and at the same time close to the citizens. They recognize that the protection and re-implementation of local self-government in various European countries is an important contribution to the building of Europe under the principles of democracy and decentralisation. They state that this calls for the existence of local authorities with democratically placed decision-making bodies and with a high degree of autonomy regarding their powers, ways and means to exercise these powers and the resources necessary to fulfil them. This is what the European Charter on Local Self-Government says. In the case of the municipality of Mirna, I note that these principles have been gravely violated, since the mother's working body has confirmed twice that it fulfils the conditions for the establishment of a new congregation, that a referendum was signed, which was almost confirmed by a plebiscite decision or was expressed by people, was also adopted by law, and that, at the end, the Council of State voted veto, not at the expense of the municipality of Mirna, but at the expense of Ankara, as the President of the Council of State himself declared or sent a letter to the local community of Mirna. Thus, this principle of the European Charter on Local Self-Government was gravely violated. And even after a separate law had been introduced to establish this congregation, it did not go through a reduced procedure. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you. I hope the absent minister understands the questions. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the question to the Minister of Finance. Dr. Franz Križanič, who is also absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since Minister Križanič is absent, please if you could give me an oral answer at the next meeting to this question, which is very important for a large part of the rural population. To help me, a citizen from my city was contacted by two decisions of the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the measure of his tax obligations from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities for 2008 and 2009 and other documents related to these decisions. The public complained of the 2008 decision of the tax office, with a complaint, as the amount of the tax liability had been reduced by around 50% of the amount originally fixed after the complaint. However, this year the citizen received a decision from the tax office setting out his obligations in the same manner as those laid down in the contested decision one year ago. Therefore, this year the citizen also complained about the decision of the tax office. After writing to the media, similar contested decisions of this kind by the tax office, with excessive taxes on agricultural activity for 2009, are particularly high this year. It is disputed that the average amount of subsidies is attributed to all debtors where any of the household members in 2009 was subject to taxable payments for agricultural policy measures, namely, for all land in the state of the land cadastral, even though many of them do not satisfy the conditions for the imposition of subsidies. Even though the debtors did not enforce these payments and did not receive them. Therefore, the tax base with the assigned average amounts of subsidies is strong beyond what is actually achieved per hectare of agricultural land. That's why I'm asking: Does the Ministry of Finance intend to do anything with regard to the contested decisions of the tax office and the methodology for calculating the income it appears to be left to the tax office on a case-by-case basis, the possible non-inclusion of the average amounts of subsidies in the tax base for 2009 or the future different legal arrangements for the taxation of agricultural activities? I expect an answer in the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Silva Črnugelj will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnić a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In April we experienced a real great movement in Slovenia Let's clear Slovenia, under the slogan Let's be realistic - let's make, let's take the trash into our own hands. Many may wonder how this or why 250,000 Slovenians attended these resounding and very successful actions or mass initiatives, as some today call it. This action has given us all a lesson from which we can learn, everyone, if that's all we want, want and know. What should we learn? That we must work together to strengthen dialogue, to strengthen coordination from the low-level, horizontal, vertical, inter-resor, local-state and much more. However, the apparent spontaneity of this successful action cannot be afforded when planning landfills for all kinds of waste, from municipal to those of low and medium radioactive substances, to cars and others. It's about the cars that I have today's question and the initiative, and I'm asking: The Directive, which was implemented in 2005, in particular on the decommissioning of cars consumed in the light of the Directive, which states that by 2015 the share of recycled and reused cars should be at least 85% and not more than 85%. Slovenia has not achieved this percentage; since 2005 it has recycled no more than 7,500 cars. At the same time, I am interested in: How do you intend to implement this directive in some way? How's the records? I'll also ask a supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u238	Mr President, Madam Ambassador, Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. I just got the latest update that there were 270 thousand Slovenians in the cleaning operation, which is to be welcomed. And about a thousand and five hundred tons were collected. Of course, action is more than successful. I'd like to be there for the celebration now, and I'm here. However, accelerating the process of decommissioning of motor vehicles is only partly within the competence of the ILO and it is a matter of coordinating the various ministries. I touched some of this a few hours ago. I have some more details here that we can connect with this question. We are trying to find a solution for more effective implementation of the rules on the handling of worn-out vehicles, thereby increasing the coverage and decommissioning. The only thing we can do for an effective solution is to change the system by introducing such a form of duty as would be paid by drivers of vehicles, whether they are in traffic or not - as long as they are owners. The solution would be possible by amending the annual levy law for the use of motor vehicles under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Transport. We are proposing a solution that would reduce administrative barriers and simplify administrative procedures, but could also be defended in terms of environmental protection as an environmental duty due to the potential use of vehicles. However, it would also be in line with existing practice in the European Union. Our ministry is already carrying out intersectoral coordination activities. The proposal for the introduction of a financial instrument will soon be appropriated in this coordination and will then move forward. The rate of reuse of recycling and processing shall be determined on the basis of the quantities of spent motor vehicles entering processing centres. The achievement of these targets does not depend on the number of vehicles but on the way in which the processing is carried out. The percentage of reuse and processing in the Republic of Slovenia in 2007 was 88.9%, which surprises me that it is so high and slightly lower in 2008 and 83.5% still quite high. Our ministry has established up-to-date records of vehicle decommissioning via an online application, it is said that the general public can see this on the Internet, which, in addition to issuing degradation reports, allows the current insight into the functioning of the decommissioning system. In addition, all waste management entities must keep adequate records and report to the Ministry in accordance with the rules on waste management. And another sentence at the end. With the motivation of the last owners of vehicles to decommission them, public service operators are obliged to operate vehicles in accordance with the concession contracts. The current number of take-overs for worn-out motor vehicles exceeds the requirement of a regulation on the manner, subject and conditions of the economic public service of handling used motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mrs. Črnugljeva's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u240	Yes, of course. Thank you very much. It is true that these seventy locations may exceed, but this may also be the reason why recycled parts are not used as they are. But I have put today's issue primarily as an initiative, in order to bring together the Ministry of Labour in the waste sector, because waste can also be valuable and pitiful substances, which are one way to employ not only young people, but especially young people, to create value-added products that can actually enrich those who are newly employed and, lastly, our budget. And through the innovation of our society, which is, of course, very high-level, we also contribute to raising the awareness of everyone else. This is an initiative, not only for spare parts of cars, but also for the other junk we have to start looking at positive and not negative. Not to mention other municipal waste and waste from construction and construction waste that is not used enough in Slovenia. And that is certainly the reason why we can still work on this action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond to that initiative?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u242	Two minutes or a minute. Today is near my 100th day of the ministry, and I had a press conference where the main topics were waste. They've introduced themselves, and now they're responding. We have presented some starting point of the strategy, where some of this initiative already exists, and your initiative will help us further. And as far as I can see in the news, I have this data coming from my cell phone, our explanations are relatively well received, and the statement made by the President of the Court of Auditors is such that I do not have to be afraid yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 18 May 2010, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you so much and good night.
