ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Iztok Podkrižnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence of Interpellations about the work and responsibility of the Ministry for the interior of the Katherine Kresal matter. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Eva Irgle, for reasons of interpretation, and I propose that we wait for the Minister to come to the Chamber. Procedural proposal, Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that, in the event of a discussion on the interpretation of the Minister, you, as President, Mr Gantar, should be excluded from the holding of the meeting of the National Assembly in this case, because we expect interventions, suspension of the submission of views and similar matters. So that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, you were right - the first break is here. There is no basis for identification, no business or otherwise. I will conduct the meeting in accordance with the plan for holding the meeting and will arrange for equal treatment for all in the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, proceed. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Eva Irgle, to explain the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll say it first, Your Honor, even though it's not between us. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before I explain on behalf of the three candidates why we want the National Assembly to dismiss the Minister of the Interior from the position, allow me to devote a few sentences to the President of the National Assembly, who has voluntarily decided that, on behalf of the candidates in the introduction, only one person may speak, even though there are three groups who propose the interpretation. On Monday's arbitration agreement, the government could have two speakers. Today, when a member of the opposition should speak, you, the honourable President of the National Assembly, have changed the rules. We will, of course, stick to them, but I believe that this is a matter of duplicity and that, as President of the National Assembly, we should not make decisions based on who you love and who is politically better in your taste. It is also interesting that the Government or the Minister of the Interior has a total of 120 minutes of time available, while three candidates from the SDS, SLS and SNS groups have only 60 minutes. In the interpretation tabled by the said parliamentary groups, the arguments are well-founded and well-founded. Therefore, I would like to present only the most important emphasis on the merits of interpolation. I very much welcome the Minister of Home Affairs, who has joined us at this time. At a hearing about a year and a half ago for the Minister of the Interior, where we listened to your defense, why we should be suitable for the Minister of this Department, I abstained as the only opposition Member and did not vote against the job when you spoke about respect and advocacy for the rule of law. Today, I will also vote in favour of discharge from the post of Minister, as will all other signatories under the interpretation, when voting on your work for the evaluation of the rule of law. I believe that your way of working has exceeded the powers you have, and you are objectively and subjectively responsible for the events that I will present below, and that you would require your resignation from the post of Minister without having to invest in interpretation. The ability to have a critical distance from one’s own actions, especially when strongly opposed by the public, is extremely important in such a function. A year ago, the first interpretation concerning the deleted was filed against you, Minister of the Interior. At that time, in your introductory address, you said, inter alia, that you knew that the interpellations would go to such a level that your private relations would be discussed in particular and that the name of your life partner, Mr Mir Senica, would be included in the debate, but none of what you were trying to bring to the debate happened. The debate we held in the Slovenian Democratic Party was intended exclusively for the deleted. We wondered how it could be that the number of deleted under your leadership had increased tremendously, to the point that people who had not been so far back care about this country and treated it with a lofty attitude, especially by calculating whether or not to settle their status, depending on where the scale would go, would today receive high compensation from the state treasury. Otherwise, you can say that the next comparison is not in place, but it is a reflection of the situation Slovenia was in. On the one hand, we have Slovenian citizens who do their work honestly and do not have a decent life. Among them are those who lost loved ones in the war for Slovenia. On the other hand, we have certain people in a group who have been erased, and I purposely said only certain people in a group who have been erased, who have turned on our country, and they have even said that it is uncivilised, so they will not settle their status, but today, a respected minister, you are giving them high compensation for this. One has already been paid. So we didn't go to any personal level at the time and your relationship. But it's true that you wanted to cleverly frame this purpose for us. Just so we can keep the victim's face out of the public eye, even because you're a woman. And from such a well-formed position, with the huge support of also purchased media, which have thoroughly forged you into the stars and saved you from the mysteries today, you wanted to show the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party as those who want to interpret you deleted only to discredit you. However, none of your forecasts of private flooding, as you have stated, have been fulfilled. Unfortunately, however, there is a bitter taste that you, the distinguished minister, cannot say anything that is not in your will, nor ask if you do not like the questions. However, you are in such a position where it is not important, whose sex is the person who occupies the function, but whether this person performs this function in a responsible, transparent, credible way, and especially for the benefit of citizens and citizens. You are also obliged to answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members, even if they are linked to the ministry's functioning in relation to private interests. Why am I saying this? Not long ago, you asked me questions that I publicly asked you, only that my questions were distasteful. But you haven't answered any of them alone, and even though it was very simple and clear questions, nothing distasteful, they were only bound to the concept of the rule of law and equality before the law. So these two postulates that have made your pre-election campaign in the national elections, and of which, according to your actions lately, you've been moving a lot further away, especially in the part where it's about equality before the law. Therefore, in today's interpretation, we are also wondering whether, as Minister of the Interior and as Minister of the Public Service, you are performing your duties in respect of the constitutional order and functioning for the welfare of Slovenia, as you swore on 21 November 2008. Under the Code of Conduct of Public Servants, which is also an ethical code of ministers and secretaries of State, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are responsible under Article 8 for avoiding situations where conflicts of interest are possible. Under this Code, a public official is expected to perform his duties conscientiously, impartially and qualitatively, taking into account only the public interest and the specific circumstances of the case. Article 15 of that Code lays down the circumstances which cause or could lead to conflicts of interest [[Quote]] : "The conflict of interest arises in circumstances in which a public servant has a private interest, which is to influence or create the appearance that affects the impartial and objective performance of public tasks. The personal interest of a civil servant shall include any benefit for him, for his family, close relatives, friends with whom he has had or has had any business or political contact. Private interest shall also include any obligation, either financial or other, relating to a public servant." [[End of quote.]] We will see below that, as Minister, both in the Baričevič affair and in the National Investigation Office, you have completely bypassed the articles of the Code. Today's interpolation, which we have tabled by the SDS, SLS and SNS MPs, would also be signed under it by a number of members of the coalition, at least that's what the National Assembly is saying, but it actually has deep and irrefutable roots right in your family relations and friendships. Today's interpolation on your work and responsibility is therefore largely based on connections leading to detected clienteleism and through it to the purest corruption that has emerged most in the case of the National Investigation Office. So don't mind me if, on behalf of the proposer, I can't get past these obvious connections, which also affect your privacy. We requested interpretation of your work and responsibility, for the first time, due to the suspicion of an attempt at political influence on the police's work in the Baricevic affair. Secondly, because of suspicion of abuse of official status, abuse of official rights and suspicion of abuse of the Ministry of the Interior for clientelistic purposes in connection with the rental of a building for the National Investigation Office. Thirdly, due to the suspicion that the legal business of renting a building for a national investigative office was clientially agreed. Fourthly, due to the suspicion of damages to taxpayers and public finances due to corruption and clienteleism in the rental of a building for the National Investigation Office. Fifth, due to the obvious creation of inequality before the law. Six, due to suspicion of non-compliance with the constitutional principle of division of power. And for the seventh time, due to suspicion of obstruction and delay in the parliamentary investigation procedure. Therefore, in the interpretation we point to the intertwining of the network of knowledge that is constantly flowing, you do not want to, however we turn, to the party of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia whose President you are. In certain cases, however, connections are linked directly to your name. Both types of networks, however, point out that customerism, work and return services and the search for certain benefits result from a complete circle of knowledge. Let us look at just one line of friendly and family ties that took place in the Baricevic affair, where, according to all three of them, there has been an attempt at political influence on the work of the police, which has raised suspicion of the independence of the police investigation. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior and President of LDS, is a partner of lawyer Mira Senica, who was a lawyer and long-standing friend of Sasha Baricevic and has achieved that dangerous dogs, despite warning the profession that this is not good, have returned to the owner. Uncle Minister Kresalov, Mr Rajko Rotnar, wrote a positive opinion on the safe installation of dogs, because, interestingly, contrary to the opinion of the Veterinary Service, he had no concerns about returning dogs to the owner. The minister would probably now say that it's just a web of coincidences that the names are connected to her. Come in. Minister Kresal, Minister Aleš Zalar, who was delaying with the power of State defence, is the brother of Boštjan Zalar, the judge of the rapporteur who issued the unlawful ruling of the Administrative Court in this case. A party colleague of Minister Kresal's Dr. Slavo Ziherl, who has recently been known mainly for his abusive and hostile statements to political rivals, Zori Rotar, partner of Saša Baricevic, has been writing his case-laws before the court, so that the procedure for granting compensation to Mr. Meglic for the attack of dogs has become even more distant and is still not solved today, which is a first-class disgrace for this country. And there's more. All I did was list that first basic line of connections with the interior minister for easier illustration. Of course, the interconnectivity of this network is even wider and goes all the way to the President of the Government. All these networks, intertwined around the minister's name, have worked for only one citizen with only one purpose: to return dangerous dogs to the owner by all means, even though they have been brutally attacked several times and there is a serious threat that they may repeat. The story shows that we obviously live in a country where all things are possible for those who have influence and good relations. Even for the cost of living. To those who have no influence and good knowledge, however, there remains only an unforgivable fight with windmills on the wind. The Baricevic affair has opened a series of questions that have not yet been answered. I am afraid that certain things will never actually be known to the public, even though Prime Minister Borut Pahor claims that the event on Oraznov needs to come to the bottom and explain all the circumstances surrounding it. However, by persistently defending the Minister, who subordinated herself to the police, and through Minister Zalar, her LDS is in charge of the judiciary, and now she wants to get even with the prosecution, we are knowingly and irrefutablely moving away from the truth that was happening in Oraznov. I'm afraid blurring events is also the wish of the Prime Minister. Otherwise, I cannot explain his actions to myself that she does not demand the resignation of Minister Kresalov, for her actions cast a bad light on him personally and on the whole government. What is it that the elite around the Minister of the Interior controls the President of the Government to unconditionally support her in all affairs and contentious, even illegal, businesses, is the question posed by both the media and politics. In the case of Minister Erjavac, the President of the Government had no difficulty in resolving him from office, although it was only a matter of slow action in the separation of waste. The danger for the country and society is that a small party that has barely crossed the parliamentary threshold in recent elections, and its president has received fewer votes than she has had posters, controls, I will say, half the country. He investigates political competitions, then he doesn't know what he's accusing them of, compromises his minister, works for the sole benefit of his elite circle of people. The problem of our social political space because of clienteleistic connections is also that the Minister of the Interior, despite all the affairs and contentious affairs, remains in place, not because of the support of citizens, who are almost zero at the moment, but because of strong lobbying and capital ties, which pave the way even to the capital city. Of course, this would not be wrong if the electorate and the electorate gave her a mandate for such a feat. And they didn't. That is why it is only possible for us in Slovenia, where democracy is obviously expressed not in elections, but in a narrow circle of people who work only for their own benefit. You can see that well: you buy a client, you take both of the repressive organs, you break through the state's attorney's office, because this toy hasn't been bought yet, you support your friends and family members, and you're happy to think, "What can they do to us?" Arrogant without a case, even if you also know clearly that these people have not given you a mandate to do so. But because clearly in Slovenia money is still the only world ruler, you are still in a position that you even consider unconditionally belongs to you. The Prime Minister's request to complete the circumstances of the Baričevič affair is already stuck at the most basic point, which shows that the police were actually abused for the private purposes of Minister Kresalova. The police, led by your personal director since you chose him without an invitation and then adapted the legislation to these requirements, did not inform the investigating judge of the suspicion that dogs could be abused. That's why the investigating judge didn't come to the city. Whose wish was it to silence the suspicion of dog abuse? Certainly not to the public who wants answers. Interestingly, though, despite a police report today, most experts who have examined the case claim that dog abuse has occurred. So, on the one hand, experts claim that dogs have been abused, and the police under your supervision claim that the suspicion of sexual abuse of dogs despite a thorough criminal investigation based on a professional evaluation of the police cannot be confirmed or rejected. As far as this point goes, the matter is highly suspicious, and it points to the fact that the police investigation has been conducted in the direction of as much as possible to be wiped out and found as little as possible. That is why there was no on-call investigative judge or district attorney present at the scene of the event. That is why you, Madam Minister, have been able to keep an eye on the investigation for six hours, which, in our opinion, was not in accordance with professional standards due to subsequent contradictory statements made by the police. The public is also asking how it is possible that the police did not look at the cameras that were in the vicinity of the house on Oražnov. Rumor has it that even because the cameras in your back are supposed to catch a very well-known person. But whether that's true or not, we'll never know, because the police you were watching over just finished the matter. The prosecutor's office, which is why you personally, together with Minister Zalar, put pressure on the Attorney General, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who did not want to be placed under the carpet of the Baricevic affair. To go back. It is quite interesting that Mrs Sonja Bukovec, former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, was present there instead of the investigating judge and the prosecutor, who had nothing to do in accordance with the rules of the investigation, since she was not an authorized person and was still released by the police for the tape while the investigation of the event was still under way. Not to mention how one of the TV cameras caught the conversation between the late Baricevic's sister and your partner, Mir Senica. There has also been a reasonable suspicion of the credibility of the investigation, as certain evidence could be destroyed or even destroyed. Also, the time when the police informed you about the event is quite interesting, since you did not specify the exact time in the interpretation, but only the hour. At the judge's hour, you were more precise. You know exactly why. Maybe it's because you were informed even before an investigative judge. The fact that the investigation was guided or redirected also leads to the fact that you, the Honourable Minister, were informed of the event that took place in Oražnova, evidently earlier than the investigating judge. No one disputes that you have been informed of such events, but that is certainly within your purview. However, rules are also laid down within these powers or there is some kind of hierarchy which requires that some be informed rather than others; in this case, the investigating judge before the Minister of the Interior. However, it is even more controversial that, as Minister of the Interior, you immediately informed your partner, Mira Senica, who in this case should be just an ordinary citizen who is not entitled to such information. By providing information to your partner, you have no doubt abused the position you are taking, even if we know that your partner Mira Senica is mentioned in various relationships in the Baricevic affair. It is also interesting that it has been incredibly long waiting for your first public responses, although it was a first-class internal political event, in which the public was directly amazed, not only Slovenian but also foreign. In this way, the Frankfurt Algemeine Zeitung newspaper outlined the exact situation in Oraznova and its consequences for Slovenia's social policy space. Despite the magnitude of the event, you have waited ten days for your first public meeting, although you like to perform in a series of headlights. Even some members of the Social Democrats are reminding you of this incredibly late response in the media today. And your silence at the time said at least three: for the first time, that you were deeply aware of how compromising and dangerous the affair could be for you, for the second time, that the affair could take you out of the situation, and for the third time that people could no longer sit so calmly on the flossules that you say about the rule of law and equality before the law, because through this affair it showed how equality before the law in reality is practiced by the ruling elite. About as much as equality at the time of communism: all are the same, only a few or much more. Even then, it was known to be more similar if they got involved in criminal proceedings, that the Judgment should close the case and put an end to the matter. It is quite unacceptable, however, that we are still witnessing similar activities in 2010. Under the pretext of democracy and the rule of law, there is clearly a parallel run by a country which has different rules behind it of its own elite. Afera Baričevič has demonstrated, in its entirety, the turn of the transition left, from the fall of standards to the alignment of legislation, to the abuse of different types of positions, to the pronounced clienteleism seen in the network of people around the LDS party, to the creation of inequalities before the law. The ancient Roman historian Cicero said that in a moral distinction between different types of inequality [[Quote]] : "While it is undesirable to compensate for the property of people, because everyone cannot have the same abilities, at least the legal rights of those who are equal among the inhabitants of the country must be." [[End of quote.]] Unfortunately, through the Baricevic affair, some have more rights because they belong to the social elite, which is strongly linked to the political left. The Baričevič affair has thus demonstrated all the perversion and abuse of power for the private interests of those in high positions who consider themselves the greatest elite of the Slovenian social space. At the same time, the affair exposed the way this elite operates, which shows how incredibly dual a state can function if there are people in power who also belong to this elite. How quickly procedures are carried out through the network of knowledge and connections for the person who is part of this elite and how incredibly slowly they grind the mill when it comes to an ordinary citizen who demands only his own right. However, protecting members of the elite is not that difficult to understand if, of course, we know the Minister of Home Affairs' statements. About a year ago, you said the opposition was leading a "domestic policy". With this, you have made it clear that you are leading a highly elitist policy aimed only at certain circles that can offer certain benefits from your function. Like your friend Igor Yuri Pogačar. Your statement has, in fact, exposed both your way of personality and political action, of course, including the work of the party whose President you are. Otherwise, in the opposition, we can really lead a "domestic policy", but we also work for small people, for individuals who have been wronged and unfortunately do not have bicycles bought by the media, nor do they have rich and influential lawyers, nor do they have a network of knowledge to help them achieve their goal. They can rely only on their own perseverance and hope that the country will, through the levers they have at their disposal, enable them to solve the problem. I myself prefer to belong to a party that leads, according to yours, a "domestic policy", but wants to work for the common good, rather than to a party that leads an "elithistic policy" only for a certain circle of people, with a clear goal - to unite for benefits and connections. According to the 2004 elections, LDS has already fallen to its pre-factors because of similar views. The late Dr. Drnovšek was still right when he said that you would kill yourself for positions when he was no longer at the top of this option. The Baričevič affair is thus through a network of connections, which according to yours are simple coincidences, although it is your uncle, your partner, a bunch of your friends and colleagues, that strongly determines your personal credibility. However, because of the suspicion that you had a political influence on the work of the police, the position you are taking has caused enormous damage. And not just the police, but the government you're a member of. With these, although random connections and attempts to lead the police politically, it is not only the credibility of your client or you personally, but also the credibility of the Government and the Prime Minister. The public has already given its opinion. Not only on forums and online portals, but also through public opinion polls, where, with the envy of a valuable second place of popular politicians after all affairs, she has placed you in the last place and your side has hardly been placed in Parliament. In the interpellation, you are given police control solely for the political purposes of you and your LDS party, to cover up certain burdensome facts that appear mainly in the Baricevic affair. We're reporting police control in case the National Investigation Office is set up. The adoption of the Law on Secret Data, which has created a greater substantive change, also points to police control on your part. This is a transfer of the decision to carry out the verification of the issuance of work permits with classified information from the police at the Ministry of the Interior. This change has created a direct impact of policy on the work of the police, so it is no wonder that at one of the meetings of the Internal Policy Committee, your Secretary of State, who is currently leaving, said very seriously and absolutely nothing jokingly that the Minister is not attending the meeting because he is checking the database of classified information. We later found that it was actually some kind of humor, because at the time we were talking about eraseds, which made the day earlier Slovenian of the year and the political face of the year, the minister was at the morning breakfast on the air of one of Slovenia's radio stations. By the title of the Slovenian Year, you obviously quickly forgot about the deleted and the meeting that was waiting for you, although this was the subject for which you received both of the addresses mentioned. Interpellation against you, Madam Minister, has also been filed because of a number of questions that arise in society and require clear and reasoned answers, even in the light of the recent affairs that touch your name directly or indirectly. The public is interested in whether we are all in fact equal before the law or whether some of the elite circles are more protected and easier to achieve and earlier achieve a goal that may even endanger the environment and people. The latter happened precisely in the case of the return of the dogs to the owner after the intervention of your partner Mir Senica, who achieved the unlawful return of both Bulmastifs from the shelter for dogs, after being granted euthanasia after several attacks and serious injuries to some individuals. On the basis of the facts presented in the Baricevic affair, we believe that you are both personally and politically responsible for the political influence of the police in the Baricevic case. We also believe that you are responsible for the abuse of the situation and for creating obvious inequalities before the law, so we propose that the National Assembly relieve you of your duties as Minister of the Interior. However, you have not been interpelled only because of the Baričevič affair, and many of the open questions remain mainly when you rented a building on Dimičev 16 where you installed a national investigation office for the rescue of your friend, while cancelling almost all the standards and criteria of the Litostrojska building. So I move on to the basic perception of interpolation: unnecessary and harmful rent of the building to us Dimičev. What is it, in fact, or what is the essence of the obvious? It is not the essence of the obvious in the formal procedure carried out; we do not doubt the integrity of the formal procedures carried out by the people who have been in the ministries for a long time. It is obvious that this lease is unnecessary and has not been carried out because of the interests of the State and that the country has been used to pay a EUR 15 million value building through rent to your friend, the respected minister. The Ministry of Interior or the police solved the problem of new premises with decisions taken in 2007 and even later, on the basis of which the state-owned company DSU is building a building in Litostorski, which is expected to be completed in the autumn of this year. The building is deliberately designed for the needs of the police and solves both the spatial problem of the Ministry of Interior and the police. It is built on the basis of a legal building permit, with an appropriate number of parking places. You, too, the distinguished minister, were excited about a year ago about the project, and you also announced the transfer to these premises. But until your friend showed up who didn't know where with the building on Dimicheva. That's why you wanted to get the State Attorney's office to take her in first. When you failed, the Ministry of Health, and when you were not successful here, there was an ideal opportunity for the National Investigation Office. All that needed to be found was the reason why Litostrojski's building was not suitable. First, that reason was sought in the illegality or nullity of the contract. However, when the Court of Auditors did not find this, it was the reason of the security and technical nature that the gas was too close. So, of course, the question is justifiably asked: Are people who move from some other state buildings to Litostrojski’s building, in your opinion, less valuable, as you think they will be exposed to the danger of endangering their own lives? We also wonder: Is there no longer, after your illegality, at a time when another ministry or state authority is moving into the building? You would expect to avoid such conduct in your conduct and in your capacity as minister, since you claim that in the case of a building in Lithostrojski, it is a null contract and a location that endangers the lives of people. As the Minister of Internal Affairs, we should be the first to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens, not just those belonging to another elite parallel country. Is it not surprising that there are so many coincidences and so many of your friends and acquaintances in the cases mentioned in the interpolation? Is it not possible that the choice of premises for the National Investigation Office was in advance agreed, as was the appointment of the Director-General of Police and the legal rules applied only to formally cover the choice made in advance? In the case of the National Investigation Office and your friend Pogačar, this is about clientism and corruption. Such conduct, Your Honor, would require your resignation without an intervention. Such a function requires transparent action. And only clearly expressed doubts, which later turn out to be true, require a move either by the Minister himself or by the President of the Government. During the previous term of office, the Minister of Transport resigned as a result of the accident that took place on the railway tracks. As a result of the undeclared residence of the Kosovo Commission, Member Paula Rupar resigned. In order to give instructions on non-communication with the Week Mladina, the main pioneer of the then government, Mr Jernej Pavlin, resigned. Due to the statement that pensioners can only fear Matilda, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Marko Stroves, resigned. Minister Drobnič resigned due to legislative changes and so on. All of these people have deviated from significantly smaller and less burdensome facts than they appear to you. But these people clearly realized that they were not irreplaceable and that the city of minister was not their property. In Britain, the minister resigned for speeding. You said you were sorry that your driver drove 200 kilometers an hour, even though two months before that event, you said to the camera that just driving by the rules and speed limits was a safe ride. If such a situation, where corruption and customerism occurred at the time of the conclusion of the deal for the National Investigation Office, had occurred in any other European country, I have no doubt that the Minister in such a situation would have been able to overestimate that there was something very wrong with his credibility and would have given up. The public's own doubts about your credibility should convince you to step down on your own. Your actions, which show illegal and illegal conduct, thus convey doubts about the credibility of the entire Government. This is not only a question of your subjective, objective responsibility in this case, but rather a basic position of the person in such a position that has recently claimed that she would never do business with a family member or a friend. What a great idea! In a situation like this, such connections should not be used in relation to public interest. However, let me continue with the National Investigation Office building. The question that is still in place today, and although Mr Pogačar was trying to explain something yesterday, is: what is the actual difference between the rent for the National Investigation Office paid by the State and the leasings paid by Ram Invest to the bank? It is very interesting that the President of DeSUS asked you at your presentation of the defence of interpretation in the parliamentary group: How much is the difference between the monthly rent paid by the Ministry to Ram Invest and the monthly leasing meal paid by Ram Invest to Hypo Bank? Why wasn't the MNZ management negotiating directly with the building's owner for rent? On these questions, the former minister, who was pressured by the LDS party and Minister Zalar, along with Mr Soltes, did not receive an answer. Later on, we were able to read in the media that this issue and this information are not important to you, Minister. Although the Minister of Economy, who is in your government, has also publicly warned you that at least what he is, we should not conclude a business with a company that is obviously in very poor business conditions, which makes it very risky to do business with him. In this case, Madam Minister, you have made an extremely irresponsible decision. Your argument that you do not intend to tell the public the difference between the rent for the building paid to your friend by the Ministry of the Interior and annually amounts to 1.6 million euros, and the leasings that your friend Mr Pogačar pays to Hypo Bank for the purchase of the building, because there is nothing to worry about, since this is a contractual relationship of private law, is extremely underestimating and arrogant to all citizens and citizens we pay for this clientele-corruption deal. As president of the LDS, you built your election campaign on the slogan The only right path is the legal path. Unfortunately, after recent events related to the Baričevič affair, however, the National Investigation Office or so-called F.B.I. Slovenian, and suspiciously carried out actions against political opponents, all of this shows that your client is far away from this slogan. In this mandate, the public knows you, on the one hand, for receiving flattery titles and, on the other hand, for engaging in various affairs and disputed decisions that lower standards relating to the concept of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. In your arguments, with regard to previously exposed events, you often wonder, but when you face clear questions, you turn to silence. I assume you may have been waiting to explain all of this at the interview today. You participated in meetings with which your mother abused the personal data of physiotherapists to obtain public authority and private business. You signed an NPU contract with a friend of yours, and at the expense of the taxpayers, you allowed him to buy a building, and you acted corruptly and clientalistly. In the first case, because of illegal and illegal conduct, in the second case, because you made a deal with your personal friend. In such a situation, it is necessary to be even more careful and considerate of the conclusion of business, since in public it can quickly, even casually, create the impression that someone wants to protect, through his position, either his life partner or acquaintance, relatives, as has happened both in the case of the National Investigation Office and in the case of Baricevic. In view of everything, it is clear that, as Minister of the Interior, you have abused the political impact on private interests, which undermines the foundations of the rule of law and raises questions as to whether we are all in fact equal before the law and whether all in this country are equally guaranteed respect for human rights. In the recent days, the rental of Pogačar's building, which you hired from your friend as minister, has come to the public with details that say that in this case it is not only your political responsibility, but also suspicions that should be investigated in a police investigation. This investigation, however, is under the new jurisdiction of your national investigation office, which, ironically, is housed in a building that is supposed to be the subject of this investigation. According to publicly available data, the Ministry you run will purchase a EUR 15 million rental for a building. If those who are filled with the mouth of the rule of law and equality before the law really want to build confidence in the rule of law, then we must strengthen it and build it on the case of the Minister of Home Affairs. Article 257 of the Penal Code refers to the abuse of an official position or official right and states, inter alia, that "an official or public servant who, in order to gain himself or anyone else a non-profit benefit or to harm anyone, exploits his official position or crosses the border of official rights or does not perform official duties shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year. If the offender by the act referred to in the preceding paragraph causes greater damage or serious infringements of the rights of the other, he shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years. An official or public official who, in order to obtain an unlawful benefit from himself or anyone else, makes use of his or her official position or approaches the border of official rights or does not perform his or her official duties shall be punished by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years." So you're on the move, Madam Secretary-General. In the interests of the rule of law and due to the independence of the investigation, we believe that we should step down without delay. If you do not do so, there is a Prime Minister on the move who must immediately propose your release. The suspicions arising from the rental of Pogačar’s building are so great that if they are not investigated in an independent investigation, you will no longer be able to perform the function you were appointed minister of a year and a half ago. How will the police who have investigated other similar cases under your authority be appalled by the most insolent? If you do not do so, the suspicion of clientism and corruption will be passed on to the entire government. Keeping the Minister in such circumstances would ultimately undermine citizens' confidence not only in the government but mainly in the rule of law. The interests of the rule of law, which must ensure equal treatment of all, irrespective of their position or function, require the Minister to resign from her position or to be dismissed by the President of the Government or by the National Assembly. We believe that, on the basis of the facts presented, as Minister of the Interior, you are personally and politically responsible for the political impact on the work of the police in the Baricevic case, for the abuse of the official position or abuse of official rights and for the abuse of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for clientelistic purposes in connection with the rental of a new building for the national investigative office, for the clienteleistically agreed rental of a new building for the national investigative office in Dimičeva, for the impairment of taxpayers and public finances in the hire of a building for the national investigative office in Dimicheva, for the damage that has and will continue to arise from the unjustified termination of the contract for the Litostroski facility, for the creation of inequality before the law, for the suspicion of non-compliance with the constitutional principle of the division of power and for the suspicion of obstruction and delay of the parliamentary investigation. On the basis of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the signed Members under interpretation propose that the State Assembly, after the conclusion of the debate on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Ms Katarina Kresal, if she does not resign or resolve the President of the Government, we shall adopt the following decision: Mrs Katarina Kresal, for the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia, and for the apparent inability to act in accordance with the oath, shall be dismissed from the office of the Minister for Home Affairs. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since, as usual, the proposaler has circumscribed herself with the President of the National Assembly in the interpretation of the interpretation, I must, however, provide a certain explanation. In the previous mandate, we have introduced a practice that we have always strictly adhered to, that if there is one group of Members, there is one speaker on behalf of the proposer, if the drafters are of course a group of Members. From this point of view, interpellation applicants from SLS and SNS members could also be involved today in explaining the interpretation, but they have not decided to do so, have not reported it or have been prevented from doing so. Therefore, as in the course of time, the explanation was provided by Irgl of the SDS Group. As far as the announcement of time is concerned. The College confirmed the time itself announced by the Members of Parliament, without prejudice to that. And the time announced by the Group of Members is just as announced, namely a total of three hours of debate, one hour of interpretation and one hour of cooperation in the debate, totaling 5 hours or 300 minutes. The minister has half the time available, 150 minutes. So much for information. You received Mrs Katarina Kresal's reply to the interpretation by letter dated 23 March 2010. I give the floor first to Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, ladies and gentlemen! If I were to agree with the indications made by the motioner of the interpretation, I would suggest that the Minister, without offense, withdraw from the position of Minister of the Interior without your opinion. Since I do not agree with the statements, I support the Minister in response to these allegations and take full responsibility for the decision to be taken in this regard today in the National Assembly. If the Minister remains, as I suggest, I will take full responsibility for their actions as President of the Government for both her and others and their chairman. Of course, I can and must influence their actions. What is possible - and I can allow myself to say honestly before you - is that I, and also to any of the other colleagues, on my recommendation to ensure that doubts in the public are resolved, that documents, reports or other types of elimination of these doubts are addressed, do not do so simply because they find the obvious senseless or the hair attracted. But I have been in politics for 20 years myself, and I know that it is quite often that these arguments are often the most convincing in the public. The Minister was, like several other colleagues of hers who had been interpolated or otherwise questioned as to their credibility before this high assembly, several times in a position where she might have taken one of the steps to put an end to these doubts. And then they accumulate, and today we've brought the situation to this point, where the interpellationary candidate for someone who would listen to this discussion for the first time can even act quite crediblely. However, it is not so, if it were, that I would do otherwise and propose to the Minister her resignation. First of all, without taking too much time for the Minister, I would like to touch on one of the points given by the proposer. And this is that there is a fairly closed political, economic and other elite in Slovenia, which, with influence on policy selection, takes care of its own capital, political and other regeneration. I want to tell you something, because I'm the Prime Minister of the Government, and I'd like someone to judge that I'm actually the one who's somehow responsible for this regeneration happening. There's no one in this country who would pick up the phone and ask me to do one way or another because I owe him a favor because I came to the office of the Prime Minister. My colleagues in the party also know that we earned this position in the 2008 elections with the hard work of the 15 years when we convinced enough voters and voters directly to trust us with their voice, that we will change some fundamental things. One of the changes I want is that people would know and trust, but in particular that in this country they would have the possibility that everyone, regardless of social and other differences, has at least about the same opportunities to succeed, and that no one is privileged to do so, even those who are in power without being able to exploit their power for their own private interests. Are we perfectly clear about this?Oh, my God! At least I'm on my own. And when public polls are cited here and there is support - either to me or to the ministers or to the parties or to the government - consider one more thing. People who may have expected me to serve, even if they did not support me, because of them I did not come to this position, their capital or political or other lobbying interests, are disappointed today because I do not do so. And I expect my ministers don't do that either. And if I thought that Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, was taking advantage of the important position of the Minister responsible for internal affairs, in favour of his acquaintances, his colleagues or his party, he would have resolved her from that position. Don't doubt it! Because I'm doubting my own credibility. You made three references: tragedy Baričevič, establishment or rental of premises for the National Investigation Office and deleted. You talked a little bit about deleted people for a reason. So let's look at the first two cases. Tragedy Barichevich. Why did I not immediately take the friendly, collegiate initiative of Minister Pogačnik to withdraw and thus close the door to a matter that was known to have actually turned from tragedy into an affair from the kind of circumstances that have fuelled it? Because I was trying to clear up the affair. And I still want it. Those working at the agricultural ministry who are preparing to take over the position of the new agricultural minister are well aware of this. When a new candidate gets here, he'll have to define himself until the events that happened there. I already told my colleague Žerjav yesterday that his question remains relevant as well. Or should the chairman act and execute the dog, no matter what the Administrative Court said. This question remains relevant and is slowly being answered. Once we have all the things cleared up, we will come here with a new candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, who has all the discussions on the Baricevic tragedy, so that he can tackle the problems of agriculture, forestry and nutrition. Second, investigative office. I spoke to the Minister of the Interior repeatedly about this and told them that in this country, which is small and in which we all know each other, it is very quick to assume that someone has done someone a favor. The secretary told me to understand that I've changed my mind seven times before we decided to take this step because I'm aware of what you're telling me might happen. Then we talked again, and once again I got the necessary assurances for me, maybe not convincing enough for you, you have your heads on your shoulders, and the National Assembly will decide. If she decides that Minister Kresalov, as I suggest, will remain in this position, I will, as for her, of course, and especially for her, who is now the second time before the interpretation, as well as for other heads of ministries as Prime Minister of the Government. But then there will be no doubt here, no interest that they have as ministers, as representatives of the parties, as representatives of some family circles and friends - everyone has them, and this must not affect their judgment and decisions - but because I expect them, as well as myself, to work for the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Katarina Kresal to explain the written answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u8	The Honorable President. Messengers and Members! For the second time in this term, I am standing before this assembly, called to account by the opposition. Interpellation is a serious democratic instrument. It would be good if I stayed like this. And today's regret is just the play of democracy. It's a theater of absurdity. As soon as we remove the ugly from the text of interpolation, all its weakness and dent is revealed. To sum up, I'm intertwined because the authorities that don't belong to me haven't been able to execute dangerous dogs in three years. I am intertwined because I prevented the ministry from moving into a building built by former Minister Mate in an illegal way in a securely totally inappropriate area. I am intertelegated because I have fully supported the expertise in its quest for greater efficiency in the prosecution of economic crime and on the basis of this, I have made it possible for the Criminal Police Authority and the National Investigation Office to have decent working conditions. I am intertwined because I protected public servants from being bullied by an investigative commission, for which the Higher Court in Ljubljana has also given me. So I'm intertwined because someone else hasn't done their job. I'm being intertwined because I don't agree to the standards of work of the previous government and I don't want to work past the law and support the profession. I'm being intertwined because I respect court decisions. There are no arguments for my interpretation. And when there are no arguments, at least there must be suspicion that they may exist. And this is what you want interpolation proponents to achieve with manipulations, half-truths, doubts and structures that the text of interpolation is full of. But when you remove you, all its emptiness will be revealed. There is not a single real basis for your accusations. I am the basis for the accusation myself, but not as Minister of the Interior, but as Katarina Kresal, as a lawyer, as a partner, as a daughter, as a niece, as a acquaintance, as a woman. You don't call me responsible for doing my job, you call me because I'm disturbing you for who I am and for who I am. And I don't find it hard to stand here and discuss substantive matters with you. I've proven my perseverance since the previous interpretation, when we spent 15 hours here together. My actions which I have done in the role of Minister of Home Affairs can be discussed at any time are public and verifiable. This is, last but not least, an integral part of my professional and political responsibility. I have already argued all my findings and, with verifiable facts, rejected in my extensive written response to interpolation. I will do the same during today's debate. The facts and evidence that only one can judge me speak for me. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you not to support the interpretation. But I admit it's extremely difficult for me to talk, to respond to the personal insinuations you've been affording yourself in the last few months. It's hard to fight lies and manipulations that go so easily out of your mouth. To prove that you haven't done something is by itself impossible. But if the only proof of your guilt is that you are, then you're in front of a hell of a job. The historical example of such inquisitorial accounting is illustrated in Slovenian literature. In the image of Agatha Schwartzkobler, Ivan Tavčar described the fate of women who were not guilty of what they had done, but because of what they were supposed to be. Their guilt was simply assumed, and innocence had yet to be proved. And in such an impossible situation, I found myself in these weeks on my own. Let's just look at my supposed role in the tragically deceased Dr. Baricevic. I was guilty because I knew him and because his lawyer was my life partner. With these facts, doubts have become more and more common. Or they were logical and meaningful, but it didn't matter at all. Was I there when it happened? Was there anyone I know there? Did I abuse the police to cover up the evidence? What was I trying to hide? When I explained that I was not at the funeral of the deceased because I had a vacation, it became a controversial holiday organization. When I explained that he had been planned in advance, he became a major mystery as soon as possible. Sooner or later. Then the security costs became disputed. In the end, my right to privacy itself became disputed, with nothing to do with the original case at all. After every argument that he made to lie, there was a new problem, a new obvious new manipulation. And there were many structures and manipulations. Most of them are too rude to be quoted here. My guilt has already been determined. But what do the facts really say, and who said them? That there was no one else at the scene, they confirmed the witnesses, not the police. In order not to confirm the torture of animals, veterinarians, not police, were found. To stop the animal torture proceedings, the prosecution, not the police, decided. It's supposed to be guilty because the investigating judge and the D.A. didn't come to the scene because she wasn't supposed to be properly informed. And what official statistics say about the presence of both at the crime scenes: that in recent years, neither the investigating judge nor the state prosecutor has come to the scene in any case of rape of a woman or child. As interior minister, I'm obviously right for you to fight the painful internal battles that you're trying to create the impression of human righteous people among people. On the other hand, by ascribeing a pre-criminal guilt without guilt about me, you paint the human enemy number one. My concrete actions, which are the only ones I can even answer for, are suddenly completely irrelevant. I have to answer for the illusion you created and give her my name. With all the evidence you're directing me to the interpolation proponents, I need to ask myself why such violence is from where such anger is coming from. Despite the general decline in the culture of political communication of this kind of perception, we are not used to politics. And I remember from my study years the thought of the famous American lawyer Louis Maiser: "When someone else points their pointer at someone else, they must not forget the fact that the rest of his fingers point back at him." And when you're so worried about the morale and the full mouth of the rule of law, you're snotting me with an indicator, I'm thinking that this concern can't be the reason for the violence of your attacks. Why not? Because the rest of your fingers point to you, the interpellationers, the members of your parties, Members of Parliament and former ministers. To you who shamelessly copy the speeches of great statesmen and write essays on crime and punishment, so they are partially copied from the encyclopedias. To you who have talked about examining the hindquarters and calling for treatment of the same sex-oriented. To you, who's sure you don't have to pay the bills. To you, who make it clear that trading in parliamentary votes to meet egotistical private interests is only political practice, not corruption. To you who have never allowed the epilogue to finally come to you in the uproared stories of the arms trade under the table. To you who have been in official proceedings for suspicions of falsifying exams, diplomas or even worse crimes such as extortion, illicit production and trafficking in weapons or explosives. And lastly, let me remind you of the very eloquent case of the former minister, who asked me in a letter to resolve the embarrassment that has arisen and to finish the matter. Of course, he was talking about the police investigation that was taking place against him. Apparently, he was guided by personal experience or the belief that laws cannot be the same for all of them, especially for those policies that are so well-deserved. So why such violence, why such anger? Perhaps it is because you are a lawless politician, because the policy of creating problems suits you more than the policy of solving problems, because proof of alleged patriotism on the shoulders of the smaller suits you more than respect for human rights and judicial decisions. In the light of recent events, it is also obviously better for you to break the law than to touch politicians and other people's influences. Such policies you are accustomed to, such politics you want to preserve, from here your defensive reaction, from here your interpolation, from here your inquisitorial passion. What are the concrete indications in this sheath of insults and profanity in this river of obscene innuendo and lies? To abuse the police, you say? To influence it so that Slovenia becomes a police state. You who've politicized the police to the point and you've shot society with it, you're making your own sins clear to me. Your fingers point back at you, so I'm not answering you, I'm talking to the whole Slovenian public. Yeah, that's right. I'm influencing the police. I am influencing the police because we have sharpened the requirements for knowledge and experience to be met by the Director-General of the Police. That is why today it is run by a person with 25 years of experience by a police officer and a criminal, without political connections and without blemish in his file. I am influencing the police because we have tightened the terms and procedures for the discharge of the Director-General of Police, so today it is far more independent and independent than anyone before and therefore the police are breathing with full lungs and working full. Yes, I am influencing the police by reducing the number of citizens' complaints about police work by 10 times over human rights violations, compared with the last year of Minister Matei's term. I am influencing the police because I have put the fight against economic crime as a priority in my guidelines, so today we have the National Investigation Office and the biggest investigation of crimes in the last 10 years, including the most serious organised economic crime. Yes, I'm influencing the police because I've put the traffic on the road as a priority. Also, last year, 20% fewer people died on the roads than in the last year of Minister Matei's term. I'm influencing the police because I've picked up extra funds for the police equipment. That's why police officers today have protective vests and gloves. And finally, because of my influence on the police, it became even more vulnerable to domestic violence than to violence against everyone else. That's how I influence the police, along with my team. And we're proud of those results. Ladies and gentlemen, signed under the text of the interpolation! Clearly, you have switched efforts to effectively and to the problems of the central police with the police state. But then how would you say the time when Minister Mate directed the police work in Ambrus with a megaphone when Slovenia adopted legislation after a rapid procedure whereby information on the telephone calls of all citizens could be kept for two years when reverberating arrests took place in front of the cameras of selected journalists, when Minister Mate at press conferences commented on the private lives of individual suspects when police officers had to write material for the pre-election meeting of Minister Virant, when many press reports on the Patrio case and others had to be approved by the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government before the publication? Was this perhaps a liberated Slovenia? Or generalized in a two-dimensional authoritarian fear that is citizens and citizens of the river elections: no thanks. Your fingers also point to you when you felt that there was nothing wrong with the state of the police and the rule of law when, according to media reports, the village guards were running through Slovenia, and in Greeks the villagers were stopping police vehicles themselves and inspecting whether they were accidentally hiding a piece of the Strojan family. There was nothing wrong even when Plut Minister Mate himself changed the surveillance report and put the whole blame on the police and thus disguised most of the problems in the Plut case as hiding on the D.A. The suspected political abuse of the police was also not a ghost of hearing when the police pawned Interpol's dispatch on the Patrio case, and the investigation did not move from the dead point for months. No, that wasn't all in dispute for you. The next observation from the interpolation is related to alleged damage to public finances in the rental of a building for the National Investigation Office. For three months now, in the alleged public interest, it has been searching for renting this building. For three months, the called and uncalled experts shall deal with the procedures and lease contracts. Everything's fine and fine. The public has a right to know. Therefore, three months ago, I gave the public an overview of the entire lease-related documentation, all the contracts which clearly indicate that Ram Invest has a leasing facility. And in these three months no one has found any irregularity: not in the selection process, not in the contract itself, not in the rental price. Nevertheless, we have forwarded all the documentation to the anti-corruption Commission ourselves, with a proposal to review and deliver its opinion. Nevertheless, the true whirlwind of lies and legal nonsense, which has been the highlight of the days before the interpolation, has also been rejected here with the generous support of the interpolation proponents. So it was first disputed that the building was built by Vegrad. When it became apparent that Vegrad was only one of the subcontractors of construction works, it became controversial that the owner of the Ram Invest building, although it was not clear what the only connection was to ownership of the property with the appropriateness of the rental building. It was then speculated whether it was expensive to rent, although specific numbers say that it was one of the most favourable rentals paid by the State for comparable properties. And when the fact that there was nothing wrong with the rent was no longer resisting, it suddenly became disputed that Ram Invest was leasing. Again, after every argument that put the obvious on the lie, there was a new problem, a new obvious, a new manipulation. Everything else was of interest to the proposers except the facts and content of the contract. So let's leave imagination aside and look at the facts. The rental of a building for the National Investigation Office was not a replacement for the building in Litostorski. Even if the Ministry were to move to the Litostroski building, we would still need additional premises for the National Investigation Office. According to the law, we have collected several offers for rent on the market, namely seven. We asked the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors for advice on the procedure. The whole process was led by the Ministry’s professional services, which eventually chose the most suitable offer. This bidder was then further negotiated for the lowest possible rent price and was thus reduced by 23.35% from the original offer. And at this price, they also chose the equipment of the premises. I can say calmly that the employees of the Ministry in the selection of the building were solely public interest and that we have concluded the business in public good legally, transparently and cost-effectively. And why do the fingers here also point to the proponents? Because Minister Mate did everything you can't if you want to do something for the public good when renting a building in Lithostrojski. Thus, Minister Mate first avoided the application of the law on public procurement, then slowly expelled all public officials from the selection process and eventually decided what to do. He chose the location despite warnings from the professional services that it was not suitable for security reasons. He raised the price with the signing of the annex one day before I swore my own oath as Minister and arranged for unfurnished premises for a rent higher than the rent for equipped premises at the location of the National Investigation Office. All these mistakes do not, of course, prevent him from asking me questions about the legality and transparency of the commitments that I have accepted as Minister myself. But I do have the answers. The law and the facts are on my side. What's the issue? That we rented the building from a private? But that can't be disputed. We do have a total of 171 rentals with private people. The amount for rents is EUR 33 million per year. Is it disputed that the price of the agreed lease is 13.03 euros per square meter? This is certainly not disputed, given that the country pays substantially higher rents for similar premises on a similar location. For example, for the premises of the Ministry of Education and Sport 17.3 euros per square metre or for the premises of the Ministry of Environment and Space, even 20.04 euros per square metre. What about the rental process? Is there something wrong with him? Obviously not if the correctness of the procedure has been confirmed by both the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. So what else can be the criterion for assessing the damage to public finances if this is not the price, if this is not the legality of the procedure? Applicants claim that this criterion is a personal acquaintance of the tenderer. However, they do not tell us where such an alleged unacceptable acquaintance is. Is it enough for us to be from the same place? Is it a decisive criterion that we went to the same school? Is it possible that we even met a few times or that we were guests at the same wedding? Where does the limit come from when science becomes an obstacle and who sets it up? Or is that a hindrance in itself? Depends on the current political need. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These borders are not set by the public and not by the interpellationers, but by the anti-corruption law and the anti-corruption Commission. [[...]] The latter did not include Ram Invest or Hypo Leasing on the list of companies with which the Ministry of the Interior should not operate. That's the facts, and that's the law. And a final reading from the interpolation. It's supposed to prevent a parliamentary investigation because I didn't give a list of the people who issued it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The higher court has decided otherwise, I hope you will stick to it. [[...]] Interpellators are constantly proving that they are disqualification, discreditation and a lie about weapons, without which you cannot be a political struggle. The targets of your attacks have been virtually all the institutions of our state system, from all three presidents of the Republic, Milan Kučana, through Janez Drnovska to Danil Türk, from the Constitutional Court through the Court of Auditors, to regular courts, from the Ombudsman to the Information Officer. It's the same principle, only 15 years ago, the spelled words got a new dress. The mob was replaced by a network, the Kučan clan of the garage elite, the octopus spider net, and the forces of the continuity of the transition left, irrespective of the opponent [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u9	Minister, please finish your explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u10	Regardless of the opponent, regardless of the current problem, the style and methods are always the same. [[...]] It's not a reasoned criticism, it's blackness and mud. Even since its entry into politics [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u11	Madam Minister, unfortunately, the explanation must be completed. Please, if you'll finish. Finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u12	I stand here to resist this wrath of yours. Besides, I don't know where it's coming from, but I know you're not going to change me with any threats, no interpolations and absurd notions. If it is your message, look at the price he pays for entering politics and for his principled decisions, then I am happy to pay it. That's not what I'm afraid of. I fear only the future according to your standards, according to the criteria with which the indicator [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u13	Madam Minister, it is necessary to conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u14	You're resisting me, you're gnawing at yourself with your other fingers. [[...]] You're spoiling your two-dimensional generalized image of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u17	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be moved by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In this House, I do not think that it has ever happened that the President of the National Assembly would not be respected and stopped talking when the hour is up. And after all, can I continue? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u19	May I have your attention in the hall, please? Yeah, unfortunately, there's noise coming from both sides. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Go ahead, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Before I present the position of the SDS Group, however, perhaps two sentences to the President of the Government, who I believe must leave. Mr. President, we've known each other a long time, but I'll say so. You've taken on a little earlier responsibility for what happens today or for doing the interior minister, let me know in the course of the day, maybe you'll consider giving three data. First data: How much does MNZ pay for rent? Second data: How much does Ram Invest pay to the bank? And how long does Ram Invest have to stay after he's already paid off the entire building from MNZ's money? Thank you very much. I am moving on to the position of the Group of Members. I'll also give you the data, but I believe you'll have to leave. As far as the position of the Group is concerned, it is as follows. Madam Minister, you have said very clearly in the introduction or at the beginning of your mandate with your political party's password: only the legal path is the right path. Of course, we may wonder how such very average Slovenians, very average people, understood this. I believe that all the 100,000 that are before the courts for such or other reasons understood this mainly as a somewhat more efficient and faster operation of the courts, which they could only look forward to. But what is actually going on today? There is something completely different going on today, which I will talk about in the presentation of the Group's position. You have made it very clear before the National Assembly: "I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia." Today, for the second time, we have an interpellation against you on the agenda because we are deciding on a proposal for a decision that reads: "...that Mrs Katarina Kresal, for the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia and the apparent inability to act in accordance with the oath given, be dismissed from the office of Minister of Home Affairs." Hereinafter on the reasons for our submitted interpolation. Let me take a little less time to think about what was already a lot of talk and point out some facts. It is perfectly normal for the police to inform the prosecutor and the investigating judge of the suspicion of crimes, as well as the law. In this case, Baricevic, I'm going to ask you some questions, it wasn't like that, but the police first informed you and you informed your partner. He was at the Barsos Clinic an hour after the incident. All of you ensure that the investigating judge or the prosecutor has been informed. That's what the D.A. says. But how were they informed? They were informed that the dogs bit the person who died. Of course, this is not a crime. Of course, this is not a crime. And to view the scene of such an act simply the investigating judge or prosecutor does not go, which is also logical. Which makes perfect sense! At the same time, the police director states: "We immediately alerted the VURS inspectors to the circumstances of the known case that was found on the spot." So at the time, the police knew it could be another crime. So she knew it could be another crime - an animal attack. This investigative judge and prosecutor were not given five and a half or almost six hours, so they were not present. That's why it's not your fault to fall for them. Ask yourself if it would be the same information procedure if it were some unknown person, I'd make up the name Janez Novak of Upper Kungota, who would die because he was bitten by dogs. Would the secretary know about this right then and then? I don't think so. Why is that? Because Janez is Novak. Next. 2a Article of the Police Act I would like to present to you, not entirely, but the part that is important: "The Minister gives the police guidance, mandatory instructions for work. The Minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks within the limits of their powers and to take certain measures and report thereon." When? The powers of the Minister referred to in the preceding paragraph shall not apply to police procedures whose direction under the law governing criminal proceedings has been taken by the competent prosecutor. When the prosecutor takes over, that's what the law says. The State Prosecutor is deemed to have taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed of the crime, i.e. since 22/20. What happened five hours ago? I don't know what happened five hours ago because we don't have the data. But I'm asking you who was directing the police. Therefore, we claim that you, because you did not give an answer, there was no answer and the answer is offered by us. You tell me that's not true, just not with the flossules. You were talking about the appointment of the Director General of Police, I don't know what standards and so on. You know, the truth is completely different, completely different. For the first time in the history of the Slovenian police, one has applied, and the one you have agreed to apply with has changed the law. And the commission chose the one you set up. There have never been less than 10 or 15 candidates. Your law and the amended law allow, therefore, for the democratic issue of the Minister to be first appointed, the Commission confirms, and then we have a democratically and professionally elected Director-General. Come on! Mr Anderlich has already warned that something is very wrong in the Baricevic case. 19.2. he told you: "The hot-blooded LDS boys demand answers." Actually, the husband's right. Today, not just February 19th. Look, there aren't any answers until today. But we have a very clear answer: we know you're putting down Barbara Brezigar, who's dealing with those five hours too. And not just with those five hours, investigating Baricevic's case. Once you've managed to completely blackmail the President out of his position, you'll also be able to be seemingly clean here. Of course, there are no answers from the secretary. And, look how nice the answers we got on some of the questions: "It's about innocent coincidences." Let's take a look at these "innocent coincidences." The nebula's case has been waiting for years. A hundred or so bites and stitches this man had those same dogs. This is an innocent coincidence - the nebula has been waiting for many years. Rajko Rotner - and I don't care if he's your uncle, but it's just an innocent coincidence, and he wrote an opinion. Your partner has reached the return of the dogs - an innocent coincidence. Your Vice-President wrote down Mrs. Zori Rotter's apology for not going to court, that the case of Meglic did not go up - an innocent coincidence. Mr. Boštian Zalar, brother of the minister, unlawful judgment, return of dogs - an innocent coincidence. Mr Zalar, Minister of Justice, is delaying the power of the defence in the matter of public representation - an innocent coincidence. The other side doesn't think so. In Slovenia you can "colorate" as well as "colorate" - with innocent coincidences. 23.3.2010, Frankfurter Algemeine Zeitung, not as a party newspaper, I guess, Slovenian, but as a prominent French newspaper. And he didn't write any Slovenes. He wrote Karl Schwarz, a German, a journalist. What does he say? [[Just a few briefs]] "More ministers play a strange role." Next: "The investigation of the case may cost Barbara Brezigar's position if the President of the Government gives in to the pressure of Katarina Kresal and Aleš Zalar." That's what the other side thinks. What the journalist continues: "Barbara Brezigar has a 30-year, flawless career." That's not what we said. That's what the German paper said. Next, the German newspaper, Frankfurter Algemeine Zeitung, said: "LDS, which is the successor of the Communist Party, clearly interferes with the case." That's what he said, not me, quoting the journalist. Barbara Brezigar answers that she is innocent and is obliged to investigate crimes. That's probably what the law says. In this case, there is too much chance, says the journalist. Barbara Brezigar has cause for concern. Just for a little while, telegraph, what else is this paper talking about? It continues with all family ties, so they will not only be in Slovenia's network, but also abroad sees them, not just us. He's talking about Mr. Križanič and Isilovich, and he's wondering how that's possible. He talks about Mr President of the State and former Secretary Ertl and wonders how this can be done in Slovenia. He's talking about Mr. Rupl and Zbogar, and he's wondering how it's possible he's threatening the former minister by throwing him out of his job. He's talking about leaving NATO and about the strange role of former president of the country, who even supports it. But that's not the topic we have. Our topic is the National Investigation Office. I want to talk about this a lot, although it is necessary to know that the Minister has devoted very little time and no numbers. So let me have some numbers. We believe that in the case of the National Investigation Office, there is an abuse of the official position or abuse of rights under Article 257 of the Penal Code. But let's look at the conjecture and statements made by the minister at this time. When she talked about renting these premises, there were several such, quite mixed statements. One published on February 16, 2010 24.com: "As confirmed by the interior minister, she has very high ethical standards at work and would not rent a building if she owned a partner, a family member or a close friend." So I wouldn't rent. It's not like that in the case of Dimič. Did you see that?Oh, my God! Because he's not a friend because he's not a family member because he's not a friend because he's not a partner, so it was hired. Let's move on. What else was said that day? As she explained, years ago her partner, lawyer Miro Senica, represented the company where Igor Pogačar was director. And the quote, "That's where it starts and ends." So, years ago there was something, and that's it. But reality isn't like that. Look what's going on next. That's where it all starts. That's where it ends. Let us just say this further, that Mr Pogačar, known from the SIB bank, who was severely injured by the Municipality of Ljubljana and, of course, the representative was Mr Senica. I will not intervene, Madam Minister, just a little further back to when you were employed in Vega. Even then, there's something to find, but it's out of the question. It is true, however, that Mr Senica was represented in the complaint against the State at the time. Let's see what happens in June 2008. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u21	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u22	What the press brought in, because in fact the press warned. [[...]] They make it very clear that in June 2008 the complete company, Mrs Kresalova, Mr Senica, Pogacar and all the others present buy a valuable gift to Celjan. A little earlier, however, there was a talk that it was a coincidence that a few years ago something was represented there at the SIB bank. No, that's not true, that's not true! Let's look at developments around the National Investigation Office. You were fully aware of the Lithostrojska case or of the premises that Mr Mate had given to build after the pre-contract. And from December to the end of February, you had no problems, no problems. I believe the minister would have given it to the press immediately if anything were wrong. But nothing was wrong, and since nothing was wrong, everything was fine until February. Even "I'm looking forward to moving to Lithostrojska." That was February 2009. And then there's those reasons why it won't somehow happen. Mr Pogačar in the 2008 annual report, which I will talk about later, says that in 2009 he will rent a building on Dimičev - I will talk about this later. But look, there are reasons why it's not Lithostrojska anymore, but Dimič's. Let's go in one order. First of all, the Minister's accusation that he was building illegally without a public invitation to tender. The charge falls because he doesn't. This is how they build in Europe, so it was built in Slovenia by the Ministry of Education, Tax Administration in Postojna, Court in Maribor, and everything was fine. The argument has fallen, the Minister's going into action, we're looking for a new argument. A new argument is found and the case is referred to the Court of Auditors. That'll be something. There'll be something else that can be done. The case comes to the Court of Auditors. And what does the Court of Auditors say? That the thing isn't illegal. Mate signed this prenup legally if it's not illegal. And the Court of Auditors says you won't say that I'm unobjective, that you should sign for a completed facility. However, the fact that he was an unfinished object is not illegal. The minister's second argument falls. Let's go into action what we can find. We'll find a third argument. It's a gas hazard. To Mr. Jarnić, who was with us a little earlier, there will be no danger. Is the value of the life of the interior minister or employees there, or is the value of the life of the environmental minister and the employees there different? No, but he's happy with it. This is proof that the Minister is actually looking for arguments, why not, because he has to go to Dimič's. There's nothing else. Nothing else. We're on Dimicev now. Smokes without a public invitation to tender. Is that all right? The fact that Minister Mate had entered into a pre-contract, not a contract without a public invitation, seemed to be controversial. However, it is not disputed that the Minister will sign without a public invitation to tender. That's not the issue. And I'm not saying it's controversial. Because it's not. That's what the law says. But look at the problem: hard bargaining for price, seven bidders. This must have been a butcher's slaughter for a lower price, just amazing. Yesterday, there were three people with me who were engaged in similar rentals. And they made it very clear to me some of the information that I will also give below. See, among the seven bidders at the butcher's slaughter was chosen the most pleasant, personal friend Igor Pogačar. Unbelievable. You're still insisting that this is okay? Let's see some more numbers. I'll draw attention to those things that are particularly important, at least in my opinion. What the Minister says and what has somehow been caught in public is that it is actually more favourable to rent on Dimičeva. But look at the truth, Mate builds 34,000 square meters, you rented 10,000 square meters. Don't ignore the fact that it's three times the size of an object. Mate's price - 10.16 your 13.03. In response to interpolation, indicate a slightly different number. I insist on mine. A comparison of prices and what I was reminded of yesterday by sellers or lessors of such facilities and what is essential, I also promised the press this information yesterday, and I will now tell them, but the following is. Look, 13.3 euros is a fair price in Ljubljana, they told me. It's a decent price. They also digest 20, but for office space, not for basements and garages. The building on Dimičev has 4,500 square metres of parking spaces and basements. Watch out, 40% of the building you see standing there is for parking lots and basements. 120 parking spaces, which is also discussed by the minister. And here comes the problem I was warned about. In the case of Minister Matei, 276 parking lots and 580 outdoors and 11000 square metres, i.e. 1/3 of these covered basement and parking spaces. However, Minister Mate signed a contract whereby parking is significantly lower. And you signed, a contract whereby you pay the same price for an office and a basement parking lot or import. What does that mean? That this part is overpaid. The calculation shows that Minister Mate would have 55 euros per month for the parking lot, while your amount is 509 euros per month. EUR 509 per month for the parking lot because you have the same price for the garage, basement and office because you have not negotiated any lower price. They even told me that such an object should be, any one of those who were with me yesterday would offer you a similar facility for 700,000 euros, and you're paying a million 600. Here we are. Let's move on. The annual rent you like to operate on: 4.6 million Matei, 1.6 million of yours. But just forget how many of them would have moved there and how many of them would have moved in your case. There they can move by your information thousands and something, according to my 1,500, depending on what office someone would give to someone. You also forget when you talk about the number of a million six hundred, that you are still paying two million eight hundred for rents and that you will continue to pay. If we were to go to the premises of Minister Matei, no, not that much. Don't fool the public. The annual rent on a Matei employee is 3,000, with 5,333, because there is a larger building, more people go in and fewer parking spaces and basements. Square meters per employee at Matthew 23, you're 34, fine. He just spent a little more modest space, all right. Moved, as we said, 300 of you, and this information is interesting to the public. Let the press take my information into account, 1,500 or Minister 1.072, because it doesn't matter how many, but now you've moved 300. Let's move on. Property. And don't forget the next thing. After 20 years, you're saying it's not true, you're going to say it again, but the contract is made up so that it's possible, after 20 years. But yours is actually made up so that it will never be its own country. Never. You'll pay the rent forever. And to whom do we pay this rent? Who? Minister Mate did business with a state firm. Look, that's whether you have the money here or here, it doesn't matter, it's a state company. Who's Ram Invest? It's a private company. If Minister Mate did business with a state company, you do business with a private company. That's not comparable. The head of the DSU said that now we'll have a new Falcon when the secretary canceled. Now Mr Žarnic is apparently saving, which is very pleased. Maybe he's a little older and understands better, I don't know. But he's happy with it. But the secretary doesn't. Don't say it was an accident. Who owns the NPU? We first learned that this is Mr Pogacar, and later we learned that this is not true. That he owns Hypo Leasing. Yeah, it's true. Hypo Leasing. There is a question that the Minister has not answered today because he does not want to answer: How much does Igor Pogačar deserve? This is important, perhaps the most important question of today's day, so I also wanted to warn the President of the Government, and please if those who are preparing him for anything. The next document shows that this is actually the situation. See, on 20 January you were forced to sign a tripartite contract. Why? Because Mr. Pogačar is not the owner. Because it's Hypo Leasing. And Hypo Leasing had to agree that you could rent. We turn to the question: How much does Mr Pogacar earn? I repeat, Hypo Leasihg is the owner, Ram Invest is just a tenant or let's say a reseller, whatever you want, and the rent is paid by the state. A number of questions have been raised on this subject, how much this Mr Pogacar deserves now. This was of interest to DeSUS, who somehow put things in perspective. This was of interest to the client really, as I recall. And that should be of interest to the President of the Government. And he says he's taking responsibility. Lobbying, pressure - every day we meet the minister here. Once a little lobbying there, once there, once there, and I don't know how else. To the numbers. Until the day before yesterday, the annual report on the work of Ram Invest was not known. Until the day before yesterday! Annual report on Ram Invest's work for 2008. On pages 26 and 27, see what it says: "In 2008 the construction of the building began on Dimičeva. The total investment amount is 12 million 700 and VAT." Add up: 15 million 240! The facility on Dimičev costs 15 million 240. What does the report say? "Financing takes place via Hypo Leasing, 240 meals [[That's 20 years.]] after €83 000 201 and it starts in 2009. Yesterday, the media released my statement saying it was 240 thousand meals, of course that's not possible. 240 meals [[That's 20 years.]] , 83 thousand euros, add up, you get 19 million. 19 million 968. Igor Pogačar will pay €19 million, €968,240, with interest, for a building in twenty years. How much does the U.N.O. pay in 20 years? The official data reported by the Ministry is a million 634 thousand 110. Mr. Prime Minister, will you still stand for Minister?Oh, my God! In 20 years, the MNZ pays 32 million 682 211. Count it down, add it up, and you'll get the amount: 12 million 968 240. This is what goes in the pocket of a private, ladies and gentlemen, a private, not a state-owned company. That's an essential difference. Yesterday Mr Pogačar came with some other information and I must comment on these too. Maybe this before. This means EUR 12 million 968 234, which means EUR 54,000 and 0.34 a month. Ladies and gentlemen, 54,000 euros a month is good, after the house is his own, and the country has paid for it. He already owns the house with the state money, and that's what's left of it. That's 21 parliamentary salaries per month. That's 96 minimum wages. That'll keep him on the moon. That's 80 police salaries, about, per month. But yesterday the gentleman came in with some other information and said that Ram Invest is paying banks 125 000 euros. In that document - I warn the public and journalists - it does not say how many years. It doesn't say how old. In my opinion, he increased his annuity and reduced the number of years from 20 to 13. The profit will be the same in the future, because he'll pay less interest. If that is not true, for he told the press on the phone that he was still 20 years old and did not give written evidence, then another question arose: Why so? Let us allow the possibility that he has invested more, that from the third to the fourth construction phase or whatever. Let's just let this happen. Nevertheless, if he pays 125 thousand 20 years, he will pay for the entire building, which will become his property, and he will remain after the second calculation of EUR 2 million 600 thousand. If you don't believe me, then you must believe what Mr. Pogacar says. Mr Pogačar's official data is EUR 125,000 to pay monthly. The official data of the interior ministry is also known. Count and you'll get, you've calculated it yourself, 2 million 600 thousand euros. Mr. Pahor, I hope he changes his mind on these numbers. I know he doesn't have enough time to count for himself. But it would be fair to warn him, the one with him. Look forward to the matter. I ask you, fellow Members - we have now found that according to Pogacar's version it is 2 million 600 000 euros plus when it has already become the owner of the house. How much do you have? I don't have the right to ask you, understandably, between us there are these and other people and they have a very different wealth situation. However, I do not believe that anyone sitting here, according to Pogačar's data, or mine, has earned EUR 2 million in 20 years. I don't know. I don't know how it's possible to make that kind of money. I can't ask you about your property either, but I can say that last night I counted everything I have, everything my wife has, and everything our child has, and I don't see 300,000 euros, 34 years of work, and my wife and I both have a doctorate. I don't see it. So how can you let someone get 2 million 600 thousand Euros plus, after they own the house, with state money! I hope someone else gets a break tonight when we vote. There's still some quick information on this company. In 2008, six employees, three with college, two with high school, one with high school. In 2008, an insignificant, purchased apartment in Lucija, for sale, says the report. "In 2009 we will rent Dimičeva," he predicts in 2008. But an interesting provision, see what they say in the annual report: "The company does not use the code in its business." The company doesn't use the code. Yeah, how? By what code would this be business? I don't know. I don't think so. What do they say about Ram Investa Banka? A group of state and private banks said this a few days ago: 'A company with the lowest rating 'D'', severe liquidity problems means 'D', 'as Ram Invest, in banking circles we call 'intense care'. Intensive care with the help of the Minister. Very interesting! "We don't give credits and leasings to such companies, but we advise them to be rehabilitated." This was published on 15.4.2010. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 / 15 And let the Minister speak, whatever she wants, with her finger on the torches. These aren't flossules, these are the facts others have told us, not us. Why is he selling? See, first in 2010, we hire an NPU and in the same year, the interior ministry in Jeranov 8 and 14 sells two buildings, which are not as big as this one, that we will not deceive anyone, but it is interesting: two buildings for sale for 3 million 400, so two sold buildings will be enough for two monthly meals. And these two buildings will be sold. It's true that the squares aren't the same. But if we subtract the garages on Dimičev, I'm sorry, but the square is getting very close. If another two square metres per employee were to reduce offices or put them in one, that would be enough. No, we'll sell it and rent it at Pogacar's. Article 68 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and Article 3 of the Regulation on the Construction of Buildings imposes an obligation on the State to have shelters. Madam Minister, check what you have on Dimič, and then take a ride to Lithostrojska, and take a look there. Well, that's something to see. Look, however we have heard the Minister pointing at us opposition Members and so on with her finger, I will be with the facts. At the time of Mr Erjavac's exchange, the Minister said, "The government cannot be the hostage of Karl Erjavac." This was written by one of the Slovenian newspapers. I agree with that. No government can be the hostage of any minister. That's not possible. But a day or two later, I summarise, in this context, I summarise the DeSUS Members. DeSUS announces: Our candidate is Mr Zanoskar. And within an hour's response from the cabinet of the Prime Minister: Mrs Kresal disagrees. "Mrs. Kresal disagrees." Who's blackmailing who? Karl Erjavec, who resigned himself, is Mrs. Kresal blackmailing? Who? Think about it, gentlemen of Dessus. You can't be Mrs. Kresal's hostage. Briefly on the so-called deleted. Look, I'm gonna be here real quick. Minister Bohinc was a relatively smart man. He said about deleted by then just a few numbers that would mean new things and nothing would happen again. He said it wouldn't hold anything, which shows in computer records 29.064 deleted, so-called deleted. The data is quite uncertain because according to other records it is 16.913. What did he do? He ordered a check on administrative units. He ordered a check. He reached the number 18.305, which we talked about so and so for years and years. According to the administrative units, 9,528 checked out and so on before 26. Two, a little after twenty-six. 2. Mrs Kresalova, a shock from the clear sky, the information system shows it 25,671 and declares it official number 25,671. The data from the administrative units are irrelevant, in the trash bin. Well, that's how we got 25,671. This is what the Ministry of the Interior document submitted to the Commission says: "In view of the above-mentioned facts, the administrative unit is expected to align the data from the manual records with the computer records, we took into account only the computer records in 2009 and found 25,671." Again, we won't know how many so-called deleted. One of the witnesses said, "I can only say that we found out in the proceedings this year or in 2009, when we started that computer records don't exactly correspond to manual records, that administrative units didn't update it, but this year we did it, last year we didn't know it." Is it now the incompetence of the Minister or is it the subjective responsibility of the Minister or the deception of the public at the time of interpretation?Oh, my God! Mrs Kresova also talked a lot about her property. I'll have the nerve to shake this little thing, too, because I've told mine. She said, "We have property notarly divided, so I know exactly what's mine, what's his--it's not mine. Which is his, and which is his." Now we can understand Mrs Kresal's statement as if you and your partner had nothing to do with property. This is not obvious, but there is no obvious fact and fact or proof of my incompetence in view of the fact that I have put so little together in life and probably most Members. The next network shows us actually this division of property. You won't see anything, but it's the procurators, the directors, the owners, the founders, only the closer the clan, I'll say. "The only right path is the right path." Me, for the people. What about the elites?Oh, my God! Elites create their power by means of alliances, internal information or abuses of law. For an average unconnected citizen, legislation is used as an obstacle. The secretary used to say how happy the cops are because everything she's done for them. Let's take a look at the poll: 20. 4., 19.46, pulled from www.policist.si. I pulled it off yesterday, only registered users have access to it -- cops or ex-cops. Do you think Mrs. Katarina Kresal should leave the MNZ and the LDS should leave the government? Yes - 79, no - 21. There is so much grass to say about this strong support and beauty of Mrs Kresalov. "Only the legal path is the right path," it began, and ends with the next one, "only the path that benefits me and my friends is the right path." See, that's how this metamorphosis of your electoral password ended. Coalition solidarity, just two, three words. Yesterday I spoke to some coalition members, and they said, "You know what it's like, because we all know what time it is." We're not going to protest much, but we're going to talk. But a coalition is a coalition. But, gentlemen of the SD, I'll say, you made it on February 16, 1999 one big step or your predecessors. You've made a very important step. You denied obedience to the then leader of the coalition. And one of the ministers, who wrote Mr. Bandelj, left. You've made it through this. I hope someone can do it today. Since the President of the Government is with us, if Mr President, these numbers will not convince you, which I have spoken about, then my opinion will be different from that of today, and I will hold you responsible for this situation. Madam Secretary! Today you can avoid interpolation, responsibilities. You can do this with blackmail, whatever you're doing. You can use pressure on coalition MPs or anything, but you know something, there's a new time coming whenever, 12, 16, I don't know when, it's gonna be a new time, a time when you won't be Minister anymore. But that's when the responsibility begins. I don't think anyone's going to come after you because you're their boss. But when you're gone, I hope they can do it. We'll support the interpolation. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to re-examine the accusations made by members of the opposition parties in this second interpellation by Interior Minister Katarina Kresal in order to enlighten and shed light on some of the circumstances in which the country has been recently and which, according to our assessment, are also indirectly linked to today's hearing. First of all, there is an economic crisis that none of the previous governments has ever faced. The former government, which, with the exception of DeSUS, is now operating from the opposition benches, I would like to stress in particular that it has not left any reserves for this crisis that would make it easier for us to overcome it. On the contrary, just before the vote was defeated, the state has also imposed an additional half-billion euros for pre-election purposes, so that the long-term financial consequences of the new public sector wage system, which it recklessly introduced in a totally inappropriate time, are not discussed. This government coalition must deal with the consequences of the global crisis every day and also address measures that would lead to an early exit from the crisis at home and thus improve the economic and social situation in the country. The price for easing the social consequences of the crisis is high, but we have managed to keep a lot of jobs because we do not even talk about the social components of these government measures to businesses now that they cover their breath. Although it is a situation that would in itself dictate some kind of political truce and as much unity in the country as possible, it would be naive to expect the opposition to help the government find the most optimal solutions to the crisis. This, of course, is not her role, even though it tries to show it to the public, but it holds very, very large figurines in its pockets. As much opposition pollen as the opposition has been throwing at this government, there has never been a government coalition in 20 years. Otherwise, the opposition can do it. And it can do what seems to be important, criticise and attack, clear suspected and genuine mistakes, but it would be correct not to bring down all state institutions without serious arguments. And that's exactly what happens after the election. There is an attack on everyone, from Parliament and its President, the Government, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Information Commissioners, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the judiciary as a whole, the police, etc. It's a long list. The only one not on the list is, in fact, the only state prosecutor under the leadership of Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who is supposed to be, as the opposition claims, the only defender of the rule of law. But what legal states, if all of its most important institutions, which I have listed above, are tried in every way politically to discredit and display as politicised institutions or as unnecessary and all condemnation of the value of a cover that costs the country only and only a great deal. A typical example of the decommissioning of the rule of law was the interpellation against Interior Minister Kresalovo, who we witnessed a year ago when members of opposition parties led by the SDS wanted to impose political responsibility because she began or continued to enforce for an unacceptable period of 7 years a cynical disregard of the Constitutional Court's decision on deleted persons. It has been politically charged because it has established one of the basic standards of the rule of law, namely: the authority of the Constitutional Court’s decision must respect them, must implement them, even if no one disagrees with them. With Minister Kresalovo, she wanted to correct this greatest violation of human rights in our country and finally erase the stain on the face of the Slovenian country, to which international organizations have not forgotten us for a year. Not only did the debate then lie a year ago to a number of their claims, including the parliamentary investigation they set up, because Kresalov was supposed to order officials of the internal ministry to find that more than was found at first deleted, but it is also a matter that only catches its own tail. The extensive documentation and testimony of both ministers, both Bohinca and Kresalova, and a number of officials have shown that, and as has been clear earlier, the difference in the number, which is still the subject of the 1992 interpolation, from the list of permanent residents of deleted persons, was made when they checked the input of data from manual to computerised records in administrative units. However, for the President of the Commission, Mr Robert Hroat, a fellow Member, and his SDS party, this is obviously not important. They continue to turn to new and new witnesses with a particularly intense interrogation passion, and they repeat in public statements, on behalf of the Commission, with no substantiated claim that the LDS, at the expense of so-called new deleted persons, is acquiring thousands of new voters and profitable transactions for lawyers who are supposed to represent those who have been erased in compensation suits. It doesn't make sense at first sight. Only their unlawfully deprived status as permanent residents is returned to those who have been deleted. However, in our country, except in part in the local and European Parliament elections, it is only through citizenship and not by permanent residence. It is therefore another ugly manipulation of citizens, with people, with their opinions, which they want to influence, which they hide in revenge, hatred of others and others, and contempt for the rule of law, which they like to refer to in the SDS, but only when it benefits their political interests. Why do you need this short trip back? In order to explain to the public what methods and means are used in the SDS, when, last of all, it is also the basis for a second interpretation against Minister Kresalovo on similar matters. The SDS should be specifically mentioned because the SDS party, which has thus a political struggle in the form of discrediting a political opponent for every price, has led to extremes, while the other two opposition parties merely seconded it - SLS, because the situation has been suppressed by this force and it does not agree with a large brother's move, but it must not be said out loud, and the National Party of the Victory of Jelinčič also, from prominent and clear points of view, which are mostly known to associate with those of whom the current force has the greatest benefit. There is nothing wrong with the opposition trying to show the government coalition as incapable of running the country. But it would be fair to build criticism on as many verifiable facts as possible, but not, I hope to say, on lies that are repeated so long that at least part of the public perceives them as truth. For example, SDS claims that Minister Gregor Golobič provided favourable loans without insurance to Ultra customerism. In proof of this, SDS Member Andrej Vizjak waved triumphantly in front of television cameras with a table where these credits were marked with zeros. By the way, the former Minister of Economic Affairs and a long-standing Member, who also leads the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, probably knew what individual bank risk labels meant, but because of political interests, he preferred to work for months and months stupid. However, the SDS made sure that this claim of unsecured loans to Golobičev Ultri rolled through the media for months and months. She forced an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where they discussed and accused for a long and wide period of time. Only the status of the investigator in the investigation, which had to be ordered by the National Assembly at the request of SDS Members, allowed Minister Golobic to defend himself. Following the hearing of the witnesses at the top of the New Ljubljana Bank, Petan’s investigative commission has indisputably found that the zeros do not mean that the loans were not secured and that the SDS’s claims on unsecured loans are merely a fairy tale for gullible people. It became quite clear that on an anonymous note, the zeros recorded were skillfully used to discredit them, apparently the most dangerous political competitor. Some media have hardly mentioned the discovery of Petan’s investigative commission at the edge of current events. Those who cooperated and seconded the most in this matter, but not at all. It was also hardly apparent that the answer to a question from colleague Jožet Tank about the operation of Ultra with the country where he asked, how much and how much the country operates, in particular the Government and the Ministry, was clearly answered that since 2002 the country has had no business with Ultra. That was a little overwhelming, too. That's not what we're talking about, either, because it's a story that's ad acta. So much for the credibility of the opposition's claim when it accuses and politically settles with opponents. Now for some specific things from interpolation. First of all, with regard to the Baricevic case. Another feature of the management situation is the permanent whirlpool of affairs, which is supposed to be the basis for the requirements for the replacement of ministers. Some of them are apparently triggered from a secret headquarters, mostly with anonymities, and most of them by the opposition, in particular the SDS, hangs on an event and tries to portray it as an affair of enormous proportions through the affair of hungry media, while things that, according to the sum of money and political involvement in suspicious affairs are really those that could be told and referred to as affairs, such as the purchase of Patri shells, the damage to Luke Koper or, say, the sale of Mercator, which is the center of the core and substance, the mother could say, all the takunas in Slovenia, while these affairs remain in this outrage and rape with other matters. The purpose of the SDS is achieved and we can truly congratulate you on this. One such affair, which the opposition graciously declares to be the greatest affair, so to speak, by your mother of all affairs, is the tragic death of Ljubljana's Dr. Baricevic. The doctor's death and alleged links to high policy are evidence to the opposition that Minister Kresalov is politically interfering with the police's work and her investigation in order to protect her friends. The minister was linked to the death of a doctor because she was a life partner of Senica's lawyer. The Minister and all other civil servants who participated in the investigation, with the exception of the Attorney General's Office, have long refused these suggestions and it is a shame to waste time on this at all. It is also necessary to stress here that the State Prosecutor's Office has also found that there has been no reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed that is being prosecuted on official duty and that it is not possible to confirm unequivocally and reliably the grounds for the suspicion of the offence of animal torture. The police and the competent prosecutor have indisputably found that there was no one else in the Baricevic house in the tragedy, so any suspicion of a possible crime has been ruled out, and the investigation has been completed in this direction. But the opposition, as has already become accustomed to it, even this time rode waves of rumors, partly triggered them herself, and demanded the police to find the sinful goat and investigate the possible sexual abuse of dogs. She remained deaf to a number of explanations that this investigation is also irrelevant, since a dead person cannot be shut down or otherwise persecuted. At this event, the saddest thing is that the top representatives of the opposition parties, referring to these lively rumours published by the yellow press, exploited and consciously tried to "paint" political opponents as people who are sexually active over dogs in the garages, thus creating a moral-political lynching - at every turn, at every topic, an economic theme, any topic that has been used and exploited in recent weeks. And in all this there is no great story, except the story of the tragic and unusual death in public of a well-known man, who, at least indirectly, was also known by the Minister of Home Affairs. And the other thing is, how could it happen that dangerous dogs were returned to the owner? Here, too, in the Group of Members, we really believe that these procedures need to be investigated in terms of suspicion that they were intentional mistakes made by civil servants. However, it is not the responsibility of the interior minister and not the responsibility of the other law enforcement authorities. We hope that they will work properly, independently, independently and that these things, which can be really problematic, will also be explored and brought to an end. But I think it's also the wish of the Prime Minister. I have already said something about obstruction, delaying and unnecessary politicisation of the parliamentary investigation, but this is another absurd charge at the expense of an internal minister who has violated, as has been said, even the constitution and laws. She rejected the requirements of the already mentioned President of the Commission of Inquiry for the counting of deleted persons, Mr Hroat, to provide him with lists of all civil servants who had participated in the issue of decisions deleted on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Kresalov here explained to the Commission that these data could be misused for pressure, bullying and accounting of over-stresses with people who have only participated, on their official duty, in the issue of decisions deleted, which has already happened in the past. Therefore, these fears were justified. After this rejection, the President of the Commission asked the court to order Kresal to hand over these lists, but the court rejected his request as unfounded, which was silenced to the public and also to the members of the Commission. With regard to the damage to public finances, corruption and clienteleism of the Minister in the recruitment of business premises for the NPU, I must say that in the Zares Group we were not entirely satisfied with the written reply in relation to this which was prepared as a response to the interpolation, so we requested further clarifications from the Minister concerning the lease agreement of the lessor, Ram Invest, in particular as regards the level of the leasing, as there was a large difference between the amount of the lease and the amount of the lease payment, which would suggest that the State was in favour of financing the purchase of premises to which the owner would be in the final phase of the Ram Invest. We also asked for clarifications on the possibilities of a direct lease with Hypo Leasing, which would eventually make the country the owner of the facility. In our conversation with Minister Kresal, we have received some answers, but at the moment we do not have enough data and sufficient documents to form credible behaviour and opinions on this matter, and we are concerned that the State and also Minister Kresalova have some understandable difficulties in obtaining data from business entities that are not bound to give and communicate to the public at this stage. However, given the size of this business and the importance of its impact on the position of Minister Kresal, we would expect to receive such documents in a credible form, not just in the form of a statement, until the end of today's debate, because that is the only thing that could dispel all suspicions and suspicions. In the Group of Members, we really expect to receive appropriate answers during today's debate, on the basis of which we will be able to form a final position. Let me stress, in the Group of Members, we really do not want to be defined solely on the basis of a coalition commitment and loyalty that is important, but is not the only one that matters. Nor is it based solely on political commitments or on our criteria, yours, which is mostly the criteria for opposition and its conduct. We would be pleased if all Slovenian politicians, especially political parties, were to become aware of this. However, we also do not want to decide just and solely on the basis of suspicions, doubts, unproven doubts and accusations, so it seems important to us what will be said in this room today at the time of the debate, what additional documents, additional arguments will be presented and, on this basis, Members and Members of the Group will indeed shape their final decision tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished Secretary, distinguished Minister Katarina Kresal! I will say this: the votes are "buyed" and there is really no reason for the Minister, Mrs Katarina Kresal, to come to the National Assembly today with a bad will. So the dogs were barking, biting, unfortunately also killing, breaking laws, making friendly ties, the rule of law was getting mushrooms, we were warning about mistakes, and the caravan was moving on. It is true, as you yourself said yesterday, Mrs Kresalova, that you can be of good will today, we hope that with at least a handful of bad news - at least for the sake of the rule of law. Fewer or much less reasons for goodwill today and at the same time the current governments have citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Desperate of losing their job, desperate for losing their roof over their heads, robbing their dignity, robbing their faith in the well-intention of those in power, and robbing their trust in the rule of law. How much more should we believe and trust, when we see again every day that in Slovenia there is one legal state for you at the top, for the rich, for the members of the elite, and another legal country for a small person who is only struggling through life. How quickly the rules and procedures are adapted when it is necessary to help your friend, a friend from the elite, under the terms "from the elite", because I imagined the elite as a flower of the Slovenian nation, citizens and citizens, as positive energy and power that we should have in our country. The power and knowledge that would put Slovenia at the side of the most developed countries in the world. And how hard you stick to the rules and also abuse them when we remain in mystery, under the terms "ordinary" citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. When we decided on our own country, I imagined that the country would develop and be a good mother for everyone, not for a handful of individuals. In my first performance at this respected temple of democracy, I said that I was raising the question and the fear of whether we were on the verge of capital taking power in this country, not democratically elected politicians. I've appealed not to let that happen. Following the recent events and actions of the government, I claim that my fear was justified and my appeal failed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are deeply concerned about the situation in the country, about this Government, which has allowed the creation of two legal states which do not respect public interest and which supports the apparent clientism of Minister Kresalova. But as I said at the outset, the votes are numbered, and the Minister has the support of her colleagues and colleagues. The Minister has support despite the suspicion of her political influence on the work of the police, despite the suspicion of abuse of the official position or abuse of official rights, despite the suspicion that the legal business of hiring a new building for the National Investigation Office is customeristically agreed and in the interest of taxpayers and public finances for corruption and clienteleism. However, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, let me say that we are still people who condemn such giving and do not really want to become our everyday life. We don't want there to be one rule in the country for each other, we want equality before the law. We do not want a political impact on the work of specific services. We want professional services to carry out their work professionally and according to the profession. We do not want some to abuse or abuse their positions for their own and friendly benefits. We wish that in the positions they have been entrusted with, we would do our work faithfully, honestly and for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, or for the good of the Republic of Slovenia. We don't want any tax evasion. We want our public finances officials to act 100 percent economically. Well, in fact, we don't just want it, but we expect it and we demand it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not intend to repeat the known facts regarding the tragic and absurd case of bloodthirsty bullmastiffs, when it is for the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, to direct the work of the police and when they are competent, the prosecutor and the investigating judge, only five hours have been informed of the case for the Minister, and when the police, according to all the information leaking to the public, find nothing. What happened in the meantime, of course, we cannot know for sure. However, there were certainly too many complications, distractions and hiding places to make people believe the purity of the story of Minister Kresalova. And it's also by renting premises for the National Investigation Office, where the minister initially claimed that she knew the landlord almost, and then they came on the day of the friendly bond. It is a coincidence, and it is also said, that the figures show that the minister is most likely in the conflict of public and private interest to rent an expensive private facility at the location of Dimičeva, amounting to 13.03 euros per square metre, with the object still being owned by the company Ram Invest d.o.o. after 20 years. or owned by Mr Igor Juri Pogacar's businessman when the leasing is repaid. A country with Minister Kresalovo's tax money is buying a building for his friend. There's a question or I could say, "Great, banana republic." On the other hand, a contractual rent of 10.16 euros per square meter was fixed for the new building of the Ministry of the Interior at Litostrojska's location in Ljubljana and after 20 years the facility would be owned by the Ministry of the Interior. Also, the fact that the rent for the National Investigation Office building on Dimičeva Street is still significantly higher than the leasing of a meal seems extremely irrational and uneconomic. Then why does the state not buy such a facility for leasing and in 20 years becomes the owner of this facility, instead of paying rent to lease meals to a company owned by Ram Invest? This company will become the owner of this facility through rent, and the state will continue to pay rent to the company in 20 years. I admit that the decisions of Minister Kresalov, as well as many in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not understand or understand that there must have been something else in the background than concern about the economic treatment of public finances: the use of taxpayer's money in private pockets. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will vote in favour of the intervention against the Minister of Home Affairs, but we would expect those who publicly predict that ministers will not be supported, because it is clear that the abstention in the case of interpretation does not play any role. To restore citizens' faith in the rule of law, a first step would be the success of today's interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! And we're where we are, but the stick, thank God, has two ends. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior. Both the coalition and the opposition probably agree with me that today we have an enormous number of hours ahead of us, discussions about whether the charges mentioned in the interpellation are justified or not. Controversy on whether the Minister is responsible for the suspicion of attempted political influence on the work of the police or the suspicion of abuse of the official position of abuse of official rights in connection with the rental of a building for the work of the National Investigation Office, or in these cases clientism, or the damage to tax money and thus public finances, or whether signs of corruption have also been provided? Many questions about this are asked when we read only the interpretation and the answer to it. In our parliamentary group, we were also now loyal to our position that we should listen to both sides and not just be judged in a uniform way. Because only on the basis of the Minister's response did we not get the assured and satisfactory arguments to dismiss the charges, we invited the Minister to an additional interview where she explained many things to us. And without a dilemma, the DeSUS Group did not make a public statement until two days ago on support or non-support for interpretation. However, we have not given ourselves up for the reasons that I have already said that we are not only condemning ourselves on the basis of the facts given on the one hand alone. We also wanted an reasoned explanation on the opposition's argument supported by evidence. The Minister's claim that she gave us satisfactory answers at the first meeting is not true, as some of the questions remained open and unexplained, and we have asked her publicly to respond to our dilemmas, which have mainly affected the rent for the National Investigation Office building. The minister then responded and sent a written reply, explaining many things. We received further clarifications from the Minister in person at yesterday's meeting, but the position of the DeSUS Group of Members is not uniform or all Members are not yet, or we have not taken a firm position, as I have already said, to listen to both sides, both those who take responsibility for the actions and actions described as ministers themselves. Therefore, our Group of Members will closely monitor today's debate and I believe that Members will be given the answers that will be decisive in the vote during the debate. At this point, we're not going to break up the case with the Bulmastifs, and the case is clear to us. Nor do we intend to settle with specific numbers concerning the rental of a building in Dimičeva. We now have more important questions or answers to them. Has the Minister acted responsibly, or has she followed the principles of transparency, rationality and economics in the rental of premises for the NPU? In doing so, we cannot help but see that the Minister has given all the documentation with all the treaties and documents, not only to us Members, but also to the entire public, which is positive. This is another proof that the minister has revealed her actions and has nothing to hide. Even more. The documentation relates not only to the relationship between Ram Invest and the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the relationship between Ram Invest and Hypo Leasing, of course, in agreement with the two mentioned. This further demonstrates the Minister's intention and desire to clarify the matter. However, as I have already said, there is not yet a single definition in the DeSUS Group at this time, which is why we cannot give a clear and uniform position, but that is why every Member of the DeSUS Group will vote in accordance with its conscience and conviction on the basis of the documentation and the conduct of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u30	Nice hello to you all! The pathetic defense of the Minister and the reckless support of Prime Minister Pahor show that everything else is still on the issue. The fact that there is something else in the back convinces me that all articles relating to Mrs Kresal have already been removed from the Fire Report website. How? Who is the one who has the power to withdraw the articles? An interesting article in the Požar Report about Mrs Kresalova's lunch in Asa and the comments made by a reader is why the police have requested an IP code for this reader who commented on the article and against this reading the police have already introduced or filed a criminal complaint because the opinion has been declared a threat. Who can afford such a thing in democratic countries if these democratic states are not only by title and if the police state under the control of Minister Kresalov is not at the rear, of course, with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice, where, of course, the gentleman from the same political party sits. It was said: The right path is the right path and before the law we are all the same. But that's not even true. After all, we find that something has always happened in a special way, in a strange way, in a semi-friendly way, which has favoured some and, of course, pushed others aside. If we take only that Mrs Kresalov blackmailed Mr Pahor and actually bribed him when she asked him to meet three conditions, he will leave the coalition. Mr Pahor gave her a bribe in the form of support, and the lady accepted the bribe she had previously offered herself and remained in the coalition. This is why the Slovenian National Party instigated Mrs Katarina Kresal on 14 April this year. This is a criminal charge that went to the D.A.'s office. And what happened next? Nothing happened. We are waiting, and probably also the trial mills are waiting to see how things will unfold, whether Mr. Pahor will remove the Attorney General and the prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia will work after the dictatorship of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. A whole series of such matters are also the issue of deleted. For deleted persons whose number is rising unabsorbed from day to day, a whole series of claims for payment of certain compensations will certainly be released. If nothing else, legal experts, those who are not from the LDS or perhaps coalition circles, say that the lawsuits will begin. If nothing else, for the reimbursement or compensation of pensions which these so-called deleted persons could not have received in Slovenia. Of course the lawyers will handle it. And given that it's a number and a number that goes up to tens of thousands of people, if every lawyer picks up only a thousand euros, count what that is. How many millions of euros we could feed hungry Slovenians and Slovenians are going to go to the I don't know whose hands, to a large extent to the lawyers. And given that these requirements will certainly not be less than EUR 50 or 100,000 per head, calculate how much money this is and how long will the Slovenian people have to work for them to feed those whom Mrs Kresalova gives them priority over all those who respect the laws. But she says, "The right path is the right path and before the law we are all the same." If we go any further, how does a lady abuse state resources for private purposes? As the lady drove beautifully by car, she reportedly drove to Venice for a festival, with a state-owned car, with a state-owned vehicle, with a state escort, and went wild on the road, according to the first data, about 200 kilometres per hour, and then the police, on request, reduced this speed to 166 kilometres per hour. Of course, this is the case when you turn on the lights behind some car and ask it to stop when it stops. I'm surprised they didn't say she only drove 110 kilometers an hour and didn't actually exceed that speed. But of course it doesn't mean anything, it's just the way things are, some people can afford anything, private trips abroad, festivals or maybe anything else. It is not surprising, therefore, the endless dissatisfaction of the types of police who, after all, want to work by law, protect the rule of law and protect citizens within the framework of legal requirements and laws. If we go back somewhere else, it's interesting. When we were talking about the Bulmastifs, we had to tell you what was going on here, where the cameras were, where there were certain things, where there were images that weren't supposed to be and there weren't any cameras. I must say that in our client we have quite interesting photographs that I do not intend to show, but certainly have some photographs and videos of some intelligence services that can in this way have a very strong impact on the functioning of the Slovenian state, on its foundations and on where the state of Slovenia will be directed in the coming years and after all how we will live. From the intelligence circles and from the police circles, I was told that another person was supposed to be there at the Bulmastifs, and they said that they discovered a large and wide network of zoophilis, if I put it mildly, those who abused dogs or dogs abused them, with the purpose of sexual gratification, and that this is not so small at all. And they also said that a certain group of people are still researching this matter. Apparently, there are people in the police ranks who don't care what kind of voice the world has about our country. It must be said that the whole world is talking about this terrible scandal. And it must be said that he will talk about this scandal, because the matter will not be suppressed under the carpet for a long time, despite the fact that Mrs Minister, as we have seen, has been able to achieve that the police have said that they do not know whether dogs are abused or dogs are not abused, even though experts in the veterinary profession have found that they are. It looks like the cops found out they don't know if someone's dead or not dead. Something like that. It is also interesting to move the injured man who was afforded by the police there when there was no investigating judge and not a prosecutor. There was no investigation in the house alone. It's interesting that there was no investigation. There were investigations at my house, at my house, in my car, and everything else. I don't know what they were looking for. Some suggested that they were looking for controversial photos and videos. The wound of the one who died is also very interesting. According to the data they've provided me, the subcutaneous artery would have been damaged. There's an airtight artery down here, and there's no dog in the world that wants to bite someone under the armpit. He's not here! Even if they train them, they don't train any dogs to bite someone under their armpits. In short, very interesting. And in beatings - yes, of course, you do laugh because you probably understand, but maybe you don't know human anatomy. Then I'll explain. The fact is, in the case of an arterial rupture, it bleeds out in about 10 seconds. And why in such a wound, the police were moving the wounded, who was said to be still alive at the time of the arrival of the police, and then, of course, he died. It is also interesting what Mrs Baričevičev, sister of the deceased, said. She was talking about the journals. She was talking about the medical records that, some of them, disappeared. And not the official one where it said that someone came in because of a sore throat, but the ones where it was written in private, what happened to the sore throat, and that the sore throat didn't come in because of the cold, that it wasn't about laryngitis or something like that, but about some essential other thing. It's also interesting to go on vacation. Mrs. Kresalova just disappeared on vacation. No one knew where he was, no security services that had to protect him 24 hours a day, no matter where he went. We didn't know that, and it just disappeared. We wonder, of course, why there was no investigation into the holiday residence of Baričevič in Bulmastif, where there were three holiday houses with air conditioning facilities, large practically that there could be a man standing in them, for dogs. I've never seen a dog about this tall before, and I don't think it is. Maybe they were thinking about taking Lipica in to get the horses in there. I don't know. But as they say in certain circles, these houses are actually supposed to be used for animal sex or for sex games with animals. There was no investigation in there. Why not? If I had some stupid suspicions that appear to be unfounded and illegal, they were investigating the house from top to bottom, investigating the car, investigating the office of the Member, and so on. Very interesting. In my opinion, in this case, it was intentional to prevent the investigation and direct the investigation. I'm sure a lower police officer couldn't do that. As I was told, the most important task of the police was to find the one who put the photograph with an artificial penis next to him or the dead in the media. It was the police's primary task to have him removed and so on. Then, of course, as the minister said, they found witnesses, but interestingly, that the witness said a few days ago that the dogs were terribly afraid, and then she said that she jumped over the fence in the relief bay and there helped and dragged the dogs away and so on. It's very strange. Very strange. Of course, we can't get past other things. The National Investigation Office, where the Special Police Police should be moving, if that's what you'd call it. That is also why we, the 20th, said yesterday, filed a criminal complaint against Minister Kresalov. We'll see what happens. I hope it's something smart and specific. The fact is that this National Investigation Office and this house were by no means an act at the last moment, but it was a strictly controlled and deliberate action, for in this building the glass was impenetrable. And if we didn't know that it was going to be used in advance for one of those things and that purpose, we certainly wouldn't be installing bulletproof glass. But if that happened later, no one knows that any glass was replaced by normal glass being taken out and bulletproof glass being placed in it. This shows exactly that the matter has been agreed upon, and that the matter is very strange, given that the Minister is a good friend of Mr Pogačar's, that they gave common gifts to engines, bikes Harley Davidson, which probably costs a little more than Rog's bicycle or something like that, with which or with which the Minister will travel abroad, because her partner speaks in legal circles, that you intend to move out of Slovenia one way or another. I'd be pleased if Mrs. Secretary moved out right away. I think it would be good for the country, for the Parliament, and especially for Mr Pahor, who very unselectively supports the lady who is actually cutting his head off. And we're already in the middle of illegal and illegal wiretapping. It is not a matter of listening, as it is likely that this term has put into use Mr. Ziherl, because it is a psychiatric term and listening means that you hear some voices in your head. In this case, there are wiretaps. Maybe there's some earrings in their heads to whisper to them about something to do, but let's just say we leave it to Mr. Ziherl, who's from the same LDS party, and he'll look into his colleagues and colleagues for what it's all about. If we look at this illegal wiretap in my case, we're actually wondering if maybe it was a party of Social Democrats. The fact is, these wiretaps were carried by Minister Pogačnik. And of course nothing was said in the National Assembly on Bulmastifs and on these affairs and on what we should be discussing here. It is interesting that in the hearings so-called, that is, in the wiretaps, Minister Jelusicev was also found by a party of Social Democrats. And after a while, also Dr. Horvat's Secretary of State, also from the party of Social Democrats. Who says the cases were not prepared in advance to discredit this minister and the Secretary of State? One wonders whether the Prime Minister is unaware of the situation and who says that everyone is not listening at this moment. Because I'm sure it's illegal wiretaps. I am afraid that they are listening to Prime Minister Pahor and that they are setting a trap for him, because the desire for the power of the Minister is unspeakablely large and uncontrolled and goes beyond all measure. When I spoke about the illegal seizure of freedom and also the armed entry of the police into the National Assembly, when I was abroad at international conferences, political colleagues from virtually all over Europe and even wider, from Canada and America, said they did not understand it; how is it possible? Yes, I said, anything is possible in Slovenia. After all, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not allow armed police officers to enter the National Assembly, but this has happened. And that is why I expect Minister Kresalova to come in to me in this way and arrest me for something, as they say, to give and take bribes to Mr Pogačnik so that the Minister may now be arrested by armed police in Parliament and take her to a hearing and investigate her at home and here and there. For this is a very similar matter, but as Madam Minister said, "The right path is the right path and before the law we are all the same." Beautiful flossules! But for whom! In all the media around the world, there was a scandal when I was arrested in Parliament or brought in by an arrested and armed vehicle up and down. In all the world's media! And to know that the matter will also go to the Council of Europe and that the Council of Europe will discuss it. I promise you this, gentlemen, I promise you, because my colleagues also told me, "We must discuss this urgently at the Council of Europe so that something similar does not happen anywhere in the civilized world." For such things did not happen even under Chansheski, and if I am not mistaken, "Geheime Staatspolyzei" or after a domestic gesture at the time of Nazism did not do so in Reichstag. This illegal and illegal deprivation of liberty that has occurred to me is also a questionable and demanding answer, and we have also filed another criminal complaint against that Chief or Head of the Criminal Police sector, Mr Jurič of Kopra. We also tabled this because he purposely deceived the investigating judge to order such acts, special acts of tracing and investigation, so to speak, wiretapping and then my arrest, etc. But it is said that if we are all the same before the law, unfortunately Madam Minister, the police can no longer eavesdrop, because I have already filed a criminal complaint before, so that they cannot do it back, but if they did it as it appears they do, and in my opinion they are listening to at least 200, 300,000 Slovenians in this case, they may also have some listening from those logs. Well, let me get back to that thing about the National Investigation Office and that fantastic house. It is interesting that the rent there should amount to around EUR 136 000 per month, or the leasing paid by the State to Mr Pogačar, Mr Pogačar is essentially paying Hypo Leasing 125 000, which amounts to about EUR 11,000 per month in his pocket. However, I got the information that, in fact, the basic meal was €86 000 per month and that they agreed to raise this meal to €125,000 per month to make it look a little better. They say it is a deal between Mr Pogacar and Mrs Kresalovo - in this case, Mr Pogačar puts 50,000 euros in his pocket a month, which is very interesting. And I think the law enforcement authorities are going to have to investigate these things that I'm talking about. Interestingly, all of this is well in line with the various things that show how deeply Mr Pogačar has been confused. It is interesting that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has granted mortgage loans to this gentleman amounting to EUR 12.4 million and has secured them with mortgages worth only around EUR 7 million. What's interesting is the interest rate at which they gave these loans. The interest rate is EOM + 1.2%, while the Ljubljana Bank abroad acquired other loans at an interest rate of EOM + 3.5%. Very interesting. Who's paying for this? All of us taxpayers: those on the labour market; those who will not get the work; those who will be thrown on the road, and so on. Of course, Ram Invest recovered 16.4 million Euros of credit in 2009, which they appear to have reprogrammed, which is very interesting. I will not mention the Slovenian banks from which they received loans, but the loans are very interesting. One is €2.11 million, then it's €423,000, then it's €729,000, then it's €4 million, then it's €170,000 -- about, of course -- then it's €1 million, then it's €7 million,800,000 and so on. It is only from where the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy are asked that they have such strong connections or such good friends, that some get such credits that no firm can, of course, obtain to save themselves from failure, to get out of red numbers and to continue their production and employment of people. Of course, the Minister will move 295 criminals, specifically chosen, into this house, and she will probably choose them herself. While all 1,075 criminals and officials could be placed on the lithostrous section and held in the same place. But, Madam Minister is afraid for the lives of these people that something might happen to them there, because, as she said, there is a gas station nearby and an accident can happen and I don't know what. But the fact that there's a kindergarten nearby doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! Kids don't vote yet, kids can't buy her brilliant earrings, kids can't give her credits, and kids can't support her in all kinds of shit that they can do, let's say, gently say. I'm sorry it's not possible to vote in secret. For if we had a secret vote, the Minister would certainly have fallen and would not have survived the pace of interpolation. Its credibility has already fallen, and unfortunately its credibility also undermines the credibility of the Prime Minister, which is neither good nor good for him, nor for the party of the Social Democrats, nor for this country. It is interesting what gentlemen who control the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the police, internal affairs - wider and justice are doing. Mr Happy Friend was informed yesterday by the Supreme Court that he should go free, because it was an illegal deprivation of liberty and he should be in the vote today, but every voice is good enough not to be against Minister Kresal. That's why the lower court kept him in custody if we decide about it after the May holidays. That's so interesting! The very interesting interpretation of the law that we are already accustomed to in Slovenia, after all, even when those homosexuals received some "klofut" those boys were convicted almost as many as those who dropped hand grenades among people in Kranj. Of course, the judge was the wife of Mr Zalar, who is, of course, the Minister of Government and a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Also interesting are Mr Pogačar's statements, which, of course, he does not put in the camera, but in certain business circles he himself said: "In Mrs Kresal's place, she would never have signed such a contract as she had signed with me." Interestingly, if Mr Pogačar receives 50 000 euros a month directly into his pocket with our payment, the payment of taxpayers, becoming his own, he may still be left with 25 000 euros a month, which I think is very large for some, perhaps not. As we have heard from a former senior member of the LDS, only one ear in Mrs Kresal's ear would be worth 30,000 euros -- I don't know, I haven't seen them around, but I don't know, but it was said so. Even if the lowest estimate is valid, about 10,000 euros, it is still half of 5,000 euros. It's strange everything in this country. Can all of us together just ask ourselves, was it worth fighting for this country? I fought. I can tell you that most LDS were either hiding or sewing white sheets together, that they were bigger when the tanks came to Slovenia, and it seems that all of this continues in this direction. Now it's going this way, "Slovenia is mine." It's not! Slovenia is ours. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Yuri, no, I didn't, maybe you didn't understand; I paraphrased, Mr Yuri. [[...]] Look at the paraphrase. I was saying that Mrs. Kresalova thinks so - probably. Thank you for understanding, Mr. Yuri. I think it's a terrible thing to do. It's a terrible thing to do. There is a growing disappointment in Slovenia, and I only hope that you will not be smart enough to assure Mrs Kresalov, I am telling the coalition that you will ensure that Mrs Kresalov remains in this place. Because this means that after the next elections it will no longer be in the political Slovenian space of the LDS and not many coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u32	Respectable. First of all, we should ask ourselves what interpretation in the legal order means. It is the testimony of the holder of the post, namely the Minister, the Minister, who acted in contravention of the oath before the National Assembly, who acted in contravention of the law, the Constitution and any other incompetences that would fall within this framework. What do we have in front of us today? What are we dealing with here? By buying statements, insinuations, distorted claims, explanations that limit to very, very harsh insinuations, that I will not say anything else, obvious, instigating, dealing with some non-existent, alleged facts by the Slovenian public and so on. Let's go in one order. It is clear that every day and everywhere it is necessary to try to prove that this coalition is unsuccessful, less successful in these times and, above all, to try to start at every step, anywhere, with any means. You have to start clearly where you think she's the most vulnerable. That it is vulnerable where the most important thing is to deal with what needs to be regulated in this country: to regulate legislation that will prevent economic crime, to regulate the things that have remained as a legacy from the previous mandate and have to be cleared up. So, besides, a client who you think is weak and the smallest in the coalition. Yeah, but the results are here. The absurd thing about this interpretation is that it is the first in the history of this country and also of other countries to which we have had the opportunity to compare this institution to also interpret things - I will go in a row, I will process all things, believe me - to begin with how the police should be abused by changing unacceptable practices of commanding the minister to the police and similar things. In order to adopt the Police Act in this Parliament, it is necessary to interpret the entire Parliament, even if you voted against it, you are an integral part of this authority, which is called Parliament - the legislative branches of power. You are interpreting it because it has proposed a law on classified information adopted by Parliament, which has also passed an opinion outside this Parliament. You are interpreting it because it has finally begun to be regulated - definitively - the issue, the shameful question for this country, the issue of deleted, with countless warnings from abroad. For the first time this year, we received a positive assessment in Geneva at the Human Rights Council. No! No! That's wrong! It is wrong to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, Article 8, and others. It is wrong that a law has finally been passed in the National Assembly, which will regulate what cannot be regulated directly by a decision of the Constitutional Court. That's wrong! That's why we have to call for responsibility! Yes, of course! If the police are effective, if organised in a way that they can detect crime, that they can sanction things backwards, that they will be different from what has been done in the past, that some matter which is being absorbed into the sky will also be cleared. It is therefore necessary to try to disable this minister, this government, in order to be successful in these matters. There was no case in any democratic parliament to interpel ministers in order to carry out their duties. They were in ours and others, because they abandoned something they didn't do or did something illegal. So, what are we dealing with today? We have the task of putting pressure on the Slovenian public on a permanent basis, telling them how you alone would have handled it better and otherwise - regardless of the price, regardless of the fact that this government has shown what is absolutely necessary in these times, determination also in certain measures, in some of the solutions that benefit citizens and citizens. That's not on you. The first observation, therefore, is the abuse of the police by changing legislation, improving conditions when things are doing more effectively. Not that he's not unacceptable, he's absurd! It goes beyond normal political logic; it goes beyond normal political action! After all, we are all committed to the Constitution, we are all bound by law, so ministers, so Members, and we cannot agree to the logic that now everything that is in accordance with the laws and what is more effective is, of course, bad because it would show that that way of work - because what was warned here? Practice is changing! Yeah, why do laws change? In order to improve practice, some of the things identified are improved, compared with those in other countries and harmonised together with the European acquis, so that we can also cooperate cross-borderly, especially when it comes to crime, so that they cannot stand in fronts of things that are not favourable. I'm going for time, for example, to Baricevic. It was said here today: it is an internal political problem. No! No! It was a tragedy, it was a tragedy that should have spread out in Hitchcock, and it should have been a scenario that predicted what was dark, what was going on there; and we would have caught a whole bunch of influential, powerful people and so on, who were supposed to have done something there. That didn't happen! I, too, have abused this today because in some other context you have set me up as if I had behaved in this story. I was first in front of you, believe me, when I publicly requested that all things be cleared up and I demand it now. Now! But I can't ask the law enforcement authorities to do something that someone might want to do to be a result! I can't do that. It was explained both in writing and in public and in any way at various meetings on the occasion that these questions were raised that in two cases - i.e. when it was supposed to be the presence of other persons at the site of the event and when it was supposed to be the abuse of dogs - that the procedure was halted by the prosecution. Yes, indeed, you have convened an extraordinary meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, where you have tried to entangle this story so far as to suggest that the Minister is putting pressure on the prosecution, in order to do otherwise in this case and to hide it under the rug. No, it was there, as you know, from a report that is now public, that the prosecutor tried to investigate those who are most responsible in this country. Why - to discredit the whole story. The only institution is in this country that you still believe, that is, the prosecution and the untouchable Attorney General. This prosecution dropped the case. As for the first one, that is to say, the ongoing investigation process, whether there was anything wrong with the dogs return process, I believe that we will be given an answer, why three years and no longer was it possible to conclude this case differently than it was later, indeed during the time of this government that the dogs returned. For some it was a duty, for many, according to the legal procedure, we believe that it was an opportunity for the previous government to do so. Well, if I count down that letter or fax from the former minister - not the one who has now resigned in this mandate - who has allegedly sent a request or request that dogs not be killed and that after this process, of course, go ahead, whatever. Yeah, I believe we'll get the answers to those questions. I will continue them myself, the demands and in the Liberal Democracy Club we expect this to be indisputably clear: where, what and how it started and how it got messy. We regret and regret the events concerning Mr Meglic, and it is not possible for the proceedings to be carried out this long, but obviously they are. It's true, there are two separate procedures, there are other things. We also believe that he will receive at least material satisfaction from this title as soon as possible. By condemning and connecting in this context, everything that connects can and cannot be connected, with this case and with the charge of those who carry political functions, such as the Minister in this case, and in your opinion even the network - all those who walk on the street on Ljubljana are part of the network, and we go through each other many times every day, and I have already found out, after seeing a picture in a newspaper or on some other medium, that I actually met someone who would be better off not to meet. And what can I do? Because he just happened to be there like I was? Or over there, in Maximarket, it happens a lot, we sit at different tables. As far as NPU's concerned. It is certain that all numbers should be placed on the table, that all the relevant papers should be placed on the table, in order to ensure that each and all of us are convinced that it was an economic, rational treatment from the point of view of the State and the consumption of tax money and that it was not possible to act in any way better. To make sure of this, we have looked at these papers by Members of the Liberal Democracy, we have been at meetings twice, three times, last time with the coalition Members, and in this part, what is the right answer is given to the table. We do not go into why it would have been better to buy a building than the one that built in Lithostrojski, who was already building for the same government in 1992 that had many business dealings with this government and with these people associated with it. No, that's not what we're getting into! For me personally, that argument is weak, which says that for security reasons it is not a suitable place. It's not because I'd say there's no danger to the police and to those people who would be there, but it's possible that it's weak because there's a police presence, there's an arsenal of weapons, and there's a greater threat to the environment. Because the police and such an institution attract more potential, so to speak, attackers who would like to harm and so on. But this is all a matter of debate, a discussion. For us, the first and only question is: Are we providing a building under favourable conditions and for the purpose envisaged for the state needs? Comparable to all other things. However, it will obviously be necessary, if it is true that in this country - I do not know - so many and so many rented premises, including by all the other institutions in this country, or perhaps there would be no more rational way to deal with these things. But that's another question. And last of all, as far as deleted persons are concerned. How can it be, however, that after all that interpretation had already been done a year ago, when various questions were raised, when several times it was explained what was going on, when, after all, the Commission, of which I am Vice-President, was silenced by the President, also me and the members, that we had actually lost a shameful claim that we did not agree to go through the court to the Ministry of the Interior for papers. Because, for the first time, we voted for the paper to be obtained because we believed we could. When we got the answers that we couldn't do it because of the protection of personal data; the second time we reinstated the vote to win it back this way, we didn't vote in favour. Then, of course, it was on the path taken by the President, but the possibility is by law that he picked it up, but when he got the negative answer, no one knew that we lost it, but in public it was still making an impression, as if the Minister and the Government, because it was two things - one is the government's magnetogram, where they discussed these things in 1992, and the other was this list - and it was important to find out that we can't get these papers because they are of such nature. But, no, in public, it was like the government and the minister didn't want to give it. The Member of the Liberal Democracy has convinced the response to the interpolation and we will oppose the vote in this proposal for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Interpellation against the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, tries to prove that she is reasonable to suspect that Mrs Kresalova has influenced the work of the police, that she has reasonable suspicion that she has violated the official position in the Baricevic case, that she has reasonable suspicion that she has damaged taxpayers and public finances, created inequalities before the law, that she has not respected the constitutional principle of the division of power and that she has impeded the work of the parliamentary investigation. These are serious accusations, and it would be right to be documented by the facts that it would prove. Interpellation should be used in our legal system as a means of controlling the work of the government or individual minister, not to abuse for political accounts and unproven charges, all with the aim of discrediting the individual minister first, then the President of the Government, who does not act against the minister, and indirectly the Government as a whole. And we've heard that a number of times today. Interpellation is therefore made under the assumption that, if said and repeated enough times and in a sufficiently harsh manner, untrue and in many ways offensive claims about the work of the Minister will be made in public, at least enough to discredit the interpolation, which is ultimately the final aim of interpolation. The Minister of the Interior responded to the allegations referred to in the interpretation in three substantive sets: whether it was a police abuse, whether it was an abuse of the official position and public finances and whether it was a violation of the parliamentary investigation of the deleted. It therefore linked the answers to the scattered and unrelated charges, and it also showed how imprecise and uncontested the interpretation was filed. In its reply, it demonstrated not only the lack of grounds for interpolation but also the non-truths on which this interpolation is based. Therefore, in my introduction, I will mention only a few essential facts and questions. In the case of Baričevič, the Minister will clearly and factually prove that the police, the state prosecutor and the investigating judge acted independently in this case, in accordance with the rules of the profession and in the usual manner. The same is true of the way and the hands of the police informing the Minister, the investigating judge and the state prosecutor. The investigating judge was informed through the Operations and Communications Centre and at the same time promised to notify the State Prosecutor of the matter. The first police information to the investigating judge assumed that it was not a crime to cause the death of a person, but to assume that the same dogs who had attacked and injured a person and were returned to the owner years ago had now attacked and injured their owner to death. The police also informed the investigating judge that a commission of the criminal police sector was coming to the scene and that the location of the event would be visited or seen by a doctor. On the basis of these and additional information, the investigating judge and the prosecutor decided not to come to the scene. The decisions of the police, the investigating judge and the state prosecutor were therefore not affected by the Minister. All these authorities have decided on their own and the interpellationers have not, with the exception of suspicions, proved their claims of influence in anything. Such conduct by the Attorney General and the investigating judge, as it was in this case, is not unusual, but often. The data show that, until now, 10 000 725 crime scenes and a thousand 63 sightseeings of the scene were carried out in the Ljubljana Police Administration area in 2009, with investigative judges taking part in less than 1% of the cases. It is pointed out that the State Prosecutor and the investigating judge generally take part in examinations only in worse crimes or worse work, traffic and other accidents involving the death of one or more people, all on the basis of an assessment and the assumption that it is a suspicion of a criminal service. That's it. In the last 10 years, the police have also reported 300 cases of suspected animal torture. The investigating judge informed of these options shall not have taken part in the visit of the place or the animals in this case. Further and further questions. The allegations of police abuse and violations of the rule of law in relation to the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police, the establishment of the National Investigation Office and the decision on the right of access to classified information indicate a complete misunderstanding of the role and responsibilities of the Minister, and in particular of the duality of the interviewers. All these decisions have been taken in the relevant laws and legal procedures. They were decided by the National Assembly, and the Ministry was only the proposer. However, in substance, these decisions have ensured greater independence and efficiency and the rational work of the police, and they cannot be talked about infringing the rule of law. In July 2009, the adopted amendment to the Police Act, which also governs the area of the appointment of the Police Director, is now comparable to the content of the appointment of the Director of the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency as well as the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, i.e. comparable enforcement functions in the system. It is a function with specific tasks and therefore cannot be compared with public servants in general. The provisions of the new Police Act of July 2009 governing the area of appointment of the Director-General of Police now have sufficient safeguards that it is difficult to occupy this important post only because, as the interpellationers claim, you are a good friend of the Minister. It is not possible to appoint a candidate to whom a three-member commission acting as an expert and autonomous body composed of the President of the Official Council, the President of the State Prosecutor's Council and the external expert on the work of the security authorities, the law and the protection of human rights appointed by the President of the Republic cannot give a favourable opinion. All of you should be friends with the minister in order to convince them who she thinks should be the director of the police. We probably know this is bullshit. The composition of the Commission therefore ensures political independence and expertise in areas most closely linked to the work and responsibilities of the Director-General. It is a committee whose composition and method of appointment at the symbolic and actual level ensures the highest level of professional and moral autonomy and authority in assessing the suitability of the proposed candidate for the demanding and sensitive role of the Director-General of Police. The opinion of the Commission shall be binding on the authorities in the electoral and resolution procedure. The Minister may not propose a candidate for appointment or discharge if the said Commission does not agree. This, I believe, ensures independence in appointment and discharge. Above all, these provisions preclude the arbitrary discharge of the Director-General of the Police for criminal reasons, as has been made possible under the previous law under which Minister Mate replaced the Director of Police of Mr Anželj and replaced him with Mr Romsk. In addition, gentlemen who are applying for interpretation sought to ensure that public servants could be arbitrarily dismissed for four years of their term of office, but they had to reduce this right to themselves for one year, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court which said that the time limit within which such an option was to be given was to be limited. Finally, it is correct to point out that these recent amendments to the Police Law have also followed the OECD and Council of Europe guidelines and recommendations recommending that the specific jobs listed here may also be occupied by persons coming from the judicial and other law enforcement bodies, not only by the police, which is now possible. At the same time, it is not possible to disclose any illegality or abuse of rights to the detriment of the rule of law in the event of the establishment of a national investigative office or the establishment of a security clearance authority for persons who may have access to classified information. The one who abused his own rights now fears the same conduct of others and follows a well - known negotiation, when the thief yells the most loudly in his defense, receive the thief! The second group of perceptions of the abuse of the official position and of public finances shows the most clearly how the half-truths and comparisons of the various incomparable facts can fully show an unrealistic and distorted picture. On charges of the fact that the Minister of Commerce on Dimičeva Street acted clientially and because of personal ties and interests, i.e. the interpellations' proponents are not able to comment on the rent in order to compare the rental of equipped premises, together with garages in Dimičeva, with the rental of unfurnished premises without garages in Litostorski. Taking into account the same criteria, i.e. equipped business premises and garages, Dimič's rent is even more favourable financially, not more expensive than the applicants claim. In order to falsely state that the Litostrojski 20 business premises contract also ensured the transfer of ownership, since in this case it was also a classic rental contract only with an agreed pre-purchase right and the paid rent would not be included in the purchase. It is not true, therefore, that the acquisition of business premises in Lithostrojska would ensure ownership after 20 years and, above all, not that the rent would be a purchase at the same time. That the selection of the best bidder between the eight applicants was selected by the special expert committee on the basis of pre-determined criteria on which the Minister did not personally influence. Last but not least, in the case of a contract concluded by Minister Mate with DSU of real estate, the Court of Auditors ruled and ruled that it was illegal and therefore null and void because the previous government, with it and in several similar cases, had violated the law on public procurement. And now, with regard to the charge of benefits that Ram Invest and its owner, Mr Pogačar, are expected to receive, which is an accusation that has become the case in the last few days. That is why we have also examined it in a particularly thorough way in these last days, especially yesterday, and have identified two important facts in our view. For the first time, that the Minister knew that, in order to protect her interest, under the lease agreement, Hypo Leasing had been given the authority of Ram Invest to surrender the business building on Dimič 16 and that only this company Ram Invest and no one else had the power to conclude the lease. So whoever wanted to rent or rent a building on Dimičev 16 had to negotiate the lease with Ram Invest, and with no one else - not with Hypo Leasing. And he had to negotiate leases, not any other legal business, or purchases or leasings, because it was only possible to conclude leases under existing contracts. This is the first thing that is incontrovertible, confirmed and has been silenced so far, but not silenced by the Ministry, but by the interpellational proponents. And second. When the Minister found that it was also possible to rent a building on Dimičeva with the economic owner of this building, Ram Invest, she assessed only whether the rent for the ministry was more favourable than the other leases offered, but not that she could conclude any other business. On the basis of the information provided in the reply to the interpolation that the lease is, it took into account all the terms of the lease, the more favourable, it decided to do so. If, after all concrete explanations, not everything is clear to each of us, then it is only right to wait for the opinion to be given by the Court of Auditors and also by the Kosovo Commission, which the Ministry of the Interior has also proposed, and we will see whether in these cases it is an abuse of rights and corruption. And finally. This also applies to indications of non-compliance with the parliamentary investigation of deleted as the third finding in the interpolation. In accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the Commission of Inquiry rejected the communication on names drawn up in the Ministry of the Interior, which included lists of deleted persons, and gave its opinion to the Court of Justice. The Court of Justice has decided by law that the Ministry of the Interior has not violated its obligations under law, as has already been said today, but not by the interpolation investors, who have silenced this fact and tried to blame the Minister for obstructing the investigation. In this case, too, it is a matter of citing false accusations and disregarding facts which are not of benefit to the interpelling investors. Therefore, after careful verification of the claims in the interpretation and responses, we did not find any elements that could be said to have been abuses which would have justified that the Minister of the Interior would have been resolved on the basis of a proposal from the interpellation investors. That's why we won't support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please. What do you want? As a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u36	Respectable. We have detailed the reasons for the interpellation of the applicants [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u37	I'm sorry, Mr. Blackach, I just wanted to say something earlier. [[...]] We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u38	We have detailed and reasoned all the indications in the interpretation of the interpellation by the interpellationers. These readings, I must say, would have been a lot more. In the last year, they've been picked up for some three interpretations. We've limited ourselves to the most important ones. In recent days, however, events have certainly given the greatest weight and the greatest emphasis to this Pogacar Palace. The ones you wanted to read it to yourself. And if you read the arguments in detail, your findings today could be different. I must say that I have listened attentively to the Minister, and I am also listening to the presentations of all the Members' groups. And even those who defend the minister have no reason to defend or defend her. There was no argument from Minister Katarina Kresal regarding the specific findings. We've listened to molarization, finger-to-finger, empathy. Somehow I got the feeling that those of us who put the interpellation into it were supposed to be doing some terrible force to the minister. It must be said that Minister Katarina Kresal, although she wishes to represent herself as a victim, is not a victim in this case. In this case, the victim of her operation is the rule of law. In a good year, the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, succeeded in burning the rule of law on her inquisition pile, which is called police politicisation. Unfortunately, neither did we hear any argument from the Prime Minister who said that he believed the Minister, and at Pogacar's building he said he believed her because she had changed her mind seven times. I believe that she has reconsidered again, because this procedure has undoubtedly been carried out in very close cooperation and reflection, but not in the interests of the rule of law and public interest. A year ago, I was alone, I must say honestly, in a similar situation in the dilemma, whether the minister is naive, is inexperienced, or is only a tool in the hands of influential individuals who use the LDS client's back to break through the rule of law. According to what I hear today, after recent events, I find that she is not naive, that she is a naive prime minister. What Minister Katarina Kresal is doing is conscious and contrary to public interest. Today, the Prime Minister has taken responsibility for his actions very clearly and unequivocally. I don't know if she knows what she's doing. We are responsible for decommissioning the rule of law. If we leave all the other observations, as I have already said, for at least three interpretations, and limit ourselves only to a central case where the Minister's friend will be richer at the end of the deal for 15 million euros and the country will be poorer for the same amount, in addition to paying the appointed one an extra salary each month, then it is clear that the Minister will either survive or not. She passed the exam, where she wrote her own questions and answers on her own, on an exam from the rule of law. According to her, this rule of law should apply to everyone. After her actions, and these are important in this case when we are talking about interpretation, all others, except for her, LDS, dedicated from this circle, are not. The rule of law is ensured by investigating the actions of political opponents, where there are no indications, let alone suspicions of crime, and by wasting taxpayers' money for these unnecessary politically motivated investigations, as we have had the case - three times an investigation has been conducted in the case of some brooms, a private wedding has been investigated, writers are investigated in forums, but the rule of law is ensured where illegality is actually taking place. And one such case is the National Investigation Office building, where the suspicion of corruption and clientelism will obviously be built into its foundation. What is this central point, in fact, where it is no longer just political responsibility, but it is a broader responsibility? I'll tell you with a case that doesn't necessarily just make him hypothetical. We need a house, we need a real room for the NPU, we have a selection of some houses, some locations for this NPU, we can make a deal with one of the lease houses and after paying the last rent we become owners, so the MNZ becomes the owner of these premises for the NPU, but we don't do that, but we go to a good friend, we agree with him that he chooses this house for us, for us, for the NPU, he makes a deal with the lease house, we pay him rent and after 15 or 20 years, we pay him some of the salaries of the Prime Minister along with the rent, he becomes the owner of this house our friend. This is the story of the National Investigation Office and this is why this story is controversial. Why would we do something like that, I ask you? There's only two options. That's what we'd do if we were crazy or if we had a deal with this friend that the rest of us don't know about and only we know what's behind it. And ministers aren't supposed to be crazy, are they? Well, I think it's time for this story to come out honorably. If the Minister does not take this step alone, because I do not think he will, the interests are too great, then he is still on the move of the Prime Minister. In this case, I think that I should urgently propose the discharge of the Minister and save a number of traumas and this LDS paradigm on the rule of law would be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, the National Assembly is already discussing, for the second time in this mandate, the interpretation of the Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, and at the first interview against her work, I have mentioned that the law precedes what is right. In my firm belief, there is a moral path along the legal path, if there is no moral path, then the legal path makes no sense. For this time also, it may be possible to discuss points 1. 5. 6. and 7 I say that the right path and the right path in this case are on the side of the Minister and that, of course, there are the proponents and proponents of interpretation with these points 1. 5. 6. 7. Kicked deep into the darkness, so I'm not even going to deal with these four points. With respect to points 2, 3, 4, I'm afraid I can't say this interpretation the same way. Before I explain this opinion, I would say that it is actually a shame that the State Administration, after 20 years of Statehood, is still a tenant in its own country, that the state did not manage it in any way in the 20s; and that in a country where more than half of the people own their own apartments are unable to do so for their officials. Furthermore, I must say that the arguments put forward so far by the motioners and the interpellationers and, unfortunately, also the unconvincing submission of arguments by the Minister leave me in doubt. It is on the floor of the Minister that she rejects these doubts convincingly, not only by using an excuse for women and some emotional blackmail, because the abuse of women, as well as the decision of the proponents and the proponents to present this interpretation, is similar to that of a woman. At the time of taking over the Ministry's duties, the Minister promised to work to the best of her ability for the welfare of Slovenia. I myself rent spaces for the National Investigation Office from a company run by a acquaintance of the Minister, in fact, a acquaintance of all of us from the events around the SIB Bank, Energy Ljubljana and more, that will allow this contract to be signed by the company with the D- and the Minister as an expert on economic law to know for sure what credit D means - to achieve a significant asset benefit in the 20s to say with this term. I think it is in short that this decision does not contribute to working for the welfare of Slovenia. Why? Because it certainly does not contribute to social cohesion if it contributes more to the distribution, which most will say is not done in a way that is moral and ethical. And as a good master, we should act differently: not only legally otherwise, morally differently. On the basis of the information so far known, I cannot trust with certainty the correctness of the assessment of the needs of the National Investigation Office, in short, the clear criteria by which the Commission has decided what building we need for the National Investigation Office, or the risk assessment of any other building, such as Litostroski, which the predecessor of this Minister and more. I regret that many data on the functioning of business entities for 2009, which would at least respond to my dilemmas, will only be made publicly available in the second half of this year. And it's not really until then that I know if I'm going to make up my mind tonight right or wrong. The Minister argues to the interviewers that they will not change it. Otherwise, I think it would be good if, at least in what part, the Minister changed, if, of course, she could take this decision on the amendment on her own. I still don't know how I'm gonna decide tonight. However, how I will decide not to support the interpretation is easier here than it would be if the Minister wanted me to vote against the interpretation, because such a desire to vote against the interpretation could not be supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself will try to focus mainly on the key reason why the Ministry of the Interior does not want to move into the existing one, for this Ministry a specially built facility. The key reasons for the Ministry's failure to move to this newly built facility should be the immediate proximity of a hazardous facility, i.e. a gas station or a storage facility of liquefied petroleum gas. This warehouse or gas station should be so dangerous that the ministry has nothing to look for there, even though there are many buildings, houses, or elementary schools in the immediate vicinity of this warehouse. So according to this logic, this warehouse should be dangerous for these other facilities. In this case, I would like to use some other logic, especially more professional logic. Slovenia has implemented the so-called Seveso-2 Directive through the Regulation on the Prevention of Major Accidents and the Reduction of Their Consequences, which have resulted in a number of so-called Seveso debtors in Slovenia. On the list of establishments that have submitted an application in accordance with the Regulation on the Prevention and Reduction of Major Accidents, we can also find the operator of this warehouse or this gas station under order number 3 [[on the internet you can look]] . This means that this controller and with him also store Seveso II is a liability. What does that mean, Seveso's a man of interest? This means that the operator of this facility, which is supposed to be so dangerous that the Ministry cannot and must not move to a specially built facility, must therefore meet many criteria, many of the conditions and requirements of the Regulation on the Prevention and Reduction of Major Accidents. I will mention only some of the provisions of this Regulation. Article 7 reads: "First. The operator of the plant, the facility, must do everything necessary to prevent major accidents and reduce their consequences in the design, construction, operation, maintenance, major changes, stopping and cessation of operation. Another time. The operator of the plant must obtain an environmental permit for the operation of the plant in accordance with the law..." And so on and so forth. However, in order to obtain an environmental permit, it is necessary to draw up an application, which must mainly contain a safety report so that I do not mention everything. This operator had to prepare a security report, given that it is on the list that he submitted the application. For this safety report, the content referred to in this Regulation is again prescribed. And point 6 requires the content of this safety report, which states that "it shall provide information on the risk to the environment on the basis of which the competent authority may decide to regulate the premises and the construction of facilities in the vicinity of the establishment." Point 8 states, "shows an influential area of the plant where the effects of major accidents in the plant could adversely affect human health and property and the environment." This means that, given that the operator of Seveso is a debtor, he has submitted an application and that the competent authority has received all the relevant information relating to this facility, of course information on the danger of this facility. This competent authority would be obliged if the results of this safety report pointed to the danger that this facility could pose against objects in the immediate vicinity, to prevent the construction of new facilities in the immediate vicinity. This facility, which was intended for the Ministry, should not have been granted a building permit. I will repeat point 6, the content of the safety report: "...to provide information on the environmental risk, on the basis of which the competent authority may decide to regulate the premises and the construction of facilities near the plant." This is what the competent authority has obtained through the security report. He probably also looked at it, assessed the effects, and estimated that there was no danger, so he issued a building permit. If this facility were to be a warehouse, or a gas station, so dangerous, new buildings near it should not be built. Moreover, if the security report of this facility shows such a danger and the affected storage area is also outside the facility's fence, it is necessary to empty the houses, schools, kindergartens, of course, facilities in the immediate vicinity of this facility, or otherwise, if we turn the matter upside down, this gas should be closed. So we have two choices. Whether the facility is not dangerous and we have no problem, and this case, I think, is what we have right now. Or he's dangerous enough to be locked up. And at this point, I would like the Ministry of the Environment to answer what kind of case we have. However, given that it is heard that the Ministry of the Environment is moving into this facility, it is the answer to the hand. So the danger of this facility is not such that it is necessary to empty objects around this dangerous facility. From all the above, I do not understand the stubbornness, but the Ministry of the Interior will not move into this building because the matter is dangerous. I agree that all matters relating to decision-making and activities in this regard - we are talking about decisions and activities that have taken place to start the construction of the building in Litostrovski - should be investigated and if someone has done something wrong, matters should be sanctioned. But these possible errors must not be the reason why the Ministry of the Interior would not move into a special facility for this purpose. I can't take it any differently than a tree. I got a feeling we're gonna get another falkon. In total, both cases are stubborn. The stubbornness was when the plane was bought, and now no one wants it, and we all have the expense of it. In this second case, we have a new building, we have re-treasure, and we'll have the costs again, and we'll pay for it. Maybe you could touch another argument that I find really unreasonable. In order for this new facility in Litostorski, if the Ministry of the Interior were to move into it and those weapons and those munitions that would be in this facility would be dangerous for buildings around this facility, and this is really a little over wood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This day in this National Assembly reminds me of the month of January when we witnessed the suspension of President DeSUS and the Minister for Environment and Space. When the Prime Minister announced that, for some reason, I cannot tell him why he was changing his opinion every day to dismiss the Minister, to suspend him, to replace him, the President of the LDS and the Interior Minister said that the LDS supported the President of the Government for the removal of our Minister and the Prime Minister of the Party. Okay. Even when we proposed a new candidate for minister, it immediately came from the government that the President of the LDS disagreed and we failed here. At that time, the LDS Group’s position was not to support our Minister. More than that, pointing their fingers down meant they were ready to tear it down. At that time, I said that the media were in the hands of political February. I've been a little grumpy. Why am I saying this? In January, the children of the Members, including my daughters, also took part. I was on the front page of a very important newspaper, the media in Slovenia. But we've been through this, too. I have to say that it was a tie or that the daughter of 30 square meters for the garage does not have a building permit and, by the way, let me remind her that she already has one. But something else. Look, when Isola works, I don't know what villas on agricultural land, of course, the media don't report it. And we're gonna get through this. When we had Minister Erjavac here at the standoff, the issue was by the opposition to the Prime Minister of the Government that there were no other ministers, because they usually are. At least this morning, the benches where the ministers sit were full. The answer was that ministers have to work. I don't know, but maybe they didn't have to work today. The National Investigation Office, if overpaid, will show, at least hopefully, further investigations. But no matter what, it's the taxpayer's money anyway. That reminds me of something else. When we adopted the 2010 and 2011 budget, it was firmly stated that pensioners' pensions would no longer be aligned with wage increases. Members and parties of DeSUS and its President have succeeded in ensuring that 50% of pensions are aligned with wage increases. Look, the coalition agreement really says that the coalition Members don't support interpretation by the other side. But politically, we don't support her. But when the interpolation goes in this direction that something wasn't right, the thing is completely different. Why am I saying this? Also, the anti-corruption commission dealing with this issue, at least as I tracked it through the media, said the President of the anti-corruption commission himself that something was wrong in this matter. Probably not. And if it turns out that what is the subject of interpolation and also the anti-corruption commission, then I still don't see the point in interpolation, but the minister herself should step down or someone else who is responsible should react. Because Minister Erjavec and President DeSUS then became a very high threshold for respect for the principles of righteousness. This should also be followed by other ministers when it comes to such important matters, the leadership of the state. DeSUS and Members of the DeSUS also have upright attitude this time, and we are not a voting machine. Even then, you wanted to blame our spines, we stayed alone, and we survived. How am I going to vote today? I mean, if you've listened to this debate, I've already said it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wonder if we are a country that sanctions and records corruption and crime, organised crime, whose hunters go to the very top of Slovenian politics. These are the facts with which the media operate. When they write about economic crime, bankruptcy managers, various acquisitions and "cage companies", not least about cartel agreements and leases all at the expense of taxpayer money and increasing poverty in the country. When we talk about cartel arrangements and the damage to 2 billion euros of the country from the construction of highways at the expense of the state and the fact that certain companies have also been held in this account and when we experience that the coalition is voting against the conclusion that it does not investigate these irregularities, you come to the realization that it is a crime at the top and that Members support such crime. In this case, when we all know what this is about, the law enforcement authorities should respond immediately and the Minister of the Interior should react immediately in order for the matter to be investigated. But no, it doesn't matter, it's important that things don't come from the Bulmastif affair to the public to remove the Attorney General, who would probably clarify the matter. It is important that individual Members be discriminated against, but also eliminated and closed, all with the support of the coalition and the Prime Minister, who gives all his support to the Minister, although he knows what I do not doubt that the Minister should step down on her own in the light of the reported mistakes, without interpretation. The power of the repressive authorities who enter parliament armed with a single piece of paper sent by the Ministry of Agriculture, Detention and Investigation of the champion of the Slovenian National Party in Parliament and at home is unacceptable, unacceptable to the democratic state. The Minister of the Interior was also informed of all this. You're talking about the rule of law and you're full of mouths about justice. I don't think you know what equality means before marriage, and you don't know what it means when you blacken a man before the public, before any guilt has been proven to him. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough if someone treats titles, but if they don't master that the most important human dignity you know how to trample on in a moment is just to apologize and wash yourself and the client in which you work. One of these, Madam Minister, is the hearings followed by the police on the basis of a court order. These hearings are certainly not intended for the general public, but they are part of the interest of investigating authorities, which in some way, you, Madam Minister, are also in charge. Just because the hearings are leaking into the media, if you are a character, you and the Director-General should step down, because these hearings are diverted to the police station and not to the POP TV and other media houses. It is obvious that you are not able to solve and manage matters within the police force, because otherwise the hearing issues would have ended after the first publication. And if I go back to the bulmastif. If we go in the order that's happened in the media. There were more people in the house. Then it all wore off. Help calls the neighbor. It's incomprehensible if there was anyone else in the house. Police move the victim from the yard to the garage. Why move someone who doesn't show his life if you don't know if any additional damage is caused by this movement, if he's still alive. I don't think that's working. On the spot, police find out that dogs have been tortured and abused. The police are informing the prosecution and the investigating judge with a five-hour delay or at the beginning of the accident, even though they already knew that dogs were being abused. The victim's sister says the brother only came home for half an hour and should have returned to the infirmary because he had an appointment with the patient. In this case, is it not a suspicion of a crime or murder? Why didn't they take a look at the surveillance footage requested by the D.A. and why Mrs. Brezigareva should be flying? All this and more were published by the media. However, so far, nothing has been explored that I suspect would have rejected. However, there is more than too much evidence of irregularity to confirm. For all of this, if not other than the minister, which the media also associate with this, is still quite responsible. The Minister is the President of the political party and the Minister of the Interior, plus the same party has the Ministry of Justice, which is obviously wrong, since in this case they are overseeing the repressive body and the judiciary, and the prosecution is likely to submit in a short time if the support of the coalition will follow a treaty binding on the parties, regardless of whether the party is truly small but loud enough to justify the celebration at the end of the elections, when they say: We have won. I'll vote for the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! The justification for the interpretation against Minister Katarina Kresal is a considerable disgrace to this high assembly. The key arguments of this interpolation can be summed up in the words: "I suppose, I suspect, try, wake up", and my favorite interpolation term is "sum of the experiment". These five terms are repeated 85 times in the text. This information tells a great deal about the hard evidence against the Minister. It says much about the fact that it is mainly an indication that interpellation investors are mainly masters of insinuation, insinuation, they expect to succeed with rumours, assumptions, planted suspicions, conspiracies and, of course, slander. The two-month political debate on the imaginary sin of the minister, in which most of the media participated, and not all of them, unfortunately proves that the facts do not count. They count personal disqualifications, count half-truths, count who attended a wedding or just had coffee. We've come a long way in this country. Really. To the inn level from which we would politically account. The Minister has already answered all the questions raised in the past months and without deliberation. Today she added a new one to all known explanations. Of course, there is no longer any doubt that she did nothing illegal, nothing domestic, and nothing unethical. She did her work highly professionally and engaged. And that's exactly what bothers many. They don't mind the building that the minister hired, not at all, what's going on in this house bothers them. However, there is a National Investigation Office. Independent police are what they're afraid of. However, since they must not say it out loud, they are trying to prevent the rule of law from being raised by inventions, including the question of renting a building for the National Investigation Office. Looks like some people got scared. As a citizen and, above all, as a Member, I am only interested in one thing: Was the best offer chosen, or did we rent the citizens of the police premises under the best possible conditions or not? And the facts clearly show that the selection process of the lessee was carried out in accordance with the law. The best bidder was chosen and the lease was concluded after further negotiations by the Ministry of the Interior. And since there was no rabbit in this bush, it was necessary to excite the Slovenian public by how much the lender would be enriched at the expense of the citizens. 11,000 euros is supposed to be the sum that Ram Invest is supposed to earn a month. This is the famous difference between a monthly rent of EUR 136 000 and a lysing meal of EUR 125 000. It is forgotten, however, that this alleged monthly profit is lower for the interior equipment of the facility, for investment maintenance, for the insurance of the facility. And everyone we've ever met with these things in our lives knows that costs aren't a joke. In fact, the debate on this monthly income is completely depressed. What if the lessee had a lease for this facility for a shorter period of time? Then the monthly meal would go far beyond the monthly rent income. Then how would we explain this to each other? Because it wouldn't be written for your fairy tale, they'd probably let go of that detail. But I can easily imagine what would happen if the leasing period was longer than it is now, which would mean that the monthly meal would be lower than it is today. I can't imagine what a scream and a scream would come after that. This case shows that the discussion on the business relationship between the lessee and the bank is depressed and extremely unfair to business entities in that country. That's their business. It is important for us to be well protected if their business relationship breaks down. And we certainly are. The rental was also attractive, and this rental was convenient. And in the end. The former government has done business under the table and, contrary to the law, in connection with the construction of the building at the Ministry of the Interior. When their illegal work is discovered, he now tries to divert attention from his own sins, an old practice that has already been tested and repeatedly succeeded. Why don't we talk about Matthew's palace? Probably because you fear, you have no clear conscience, you seek the sins of others to cover your own. That's what you are, and that's why you're investing in interpolation. All of this has already been said, so I will not support interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What exactly are we dealing with today? We're dealing with interpolation due to interpolation. Why do I say that? Yesterday afternoon, one day before the interpolation, the SDS Group tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss suspected police abuse for political purposes and the suspicion of the use of covert investigation measures in the National Assembly. In the end, the SDS is proposing, including the invitation to Minister Katarina Kresal to relieve the police of political pressure. We have 13 hours scheduled for interpolation today. The SDS already knew yesterday that today's session would not satisfy her. The SDS said one thing about its request for an extraordinary session tabled yesterday. It's that she's not interested in answers. The SDS doesn't care what the background of all the stories they're exposing to interpretation is. These parties are not interested in arguments. The SDS has already adopted its judgment. First of all, as far as the National Investigation Office is concerned. For me personally, unlike others, the Court of Auditors is the only one who will be able to tell in the audit whether the procedures have been carried out correctly, transparently and economically. Court of Auditors, not SDS or SD and not LDS. I would appreciate it, Mr Vice-President, if I could speak, as did the other options, because obviously right now everyone feels the need to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u51	Melita Zupevec, you can talk, I hope they let you talk. But not everyone is so kind and polite.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u52	That's true, and I have to admit that, yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Today I heard from the proponents, [[Quote]] "that it is pure corruption and customerism". Is not SDS the party that always refers to the presumption of innocence in this House? Does this party not always say that everyone is innocent until proven guilty by a judicial judgment? No, not always, only when it comes to members of the SDS. In this country, only some people are presumed to be innocent. I've read this interpretation very carefully. And as for the National Investigation Office, as I said, I can't give economic judgment, if you want, on legality, because, otherwise, we have to go back to the past, to another minister, which is written by Mate, and to another building, which is not in Dimičev, but in Litostorski, and it is not invented by Minister Kresalova, but by Minister Mate, and to the question of how it is possible that on 20 November 2008, as has already been said, the last day of his ministry signed an annex to a contract of EUR 4.5 million, and this for additional works, which were then difficult to formulate. It's a naked coincidence. Because there's still a lot of these naked coincidences. If you go to another company, you'll find very interesting coincidences. If you look at Ipes, you will find interesting coincidences where the various owners of these companies live. If you go to look at other things, you'll see a coincidence running time. Let's take a very real look. The Ministry of Education and Sport, at least two jobs can tell you, time of implementation 2008, 2006; Ministry of the Interior, two jobs, time of implementation 2008; Ministry of Higher Education and Technology, one job, time of execution 2007; Ministry of Health, two jobs, 2008, 2006; Ministry of Public Administration, July 2006 and so on, even the National Assembly. These are just coincidences. Just like you make judgments by coincidence, so can I, all of us, but I will not resort to your manners. You spoke today and mentioned the cost of living in vain. I would like to remind these same candidates of another tragic event. That's the Plut thing. You probably didn't miss the fact that a few days ago the Supreme Court settled the case of Mirk Ulchar and found the country responsible for the death of Ulčar's wife, Ljubica, who was murdered by Silva Plut. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, the State had sufficient evidence of a criminal complaint against Pluto and there was also sufficient evidence to determine the detention. The difficulty, the mode of service and the circumstances in which the previous crime was committed, this is a murder in Serbia, have indicated the danger of repeating the crime. That's what the court found. In addition, it found that unsurprising and non-operational cooperation between Slovenia and Serbia, where Plut committed a crime before that, could not burden the countries with responsibility. Who was the minister then? Dragutin Mate. Who's sitting on top of the D.A.'s office? Indeed, this name must not be uttered in this Hall at all, for these are the people who are protected in this country. God does not allow bad things to be said about these people. And Minister Mate in this House said he did nothing wrong. Recently, however, the court has in fact attached to the arguments raised by the opposition in this House, namely that the Minister, in addition to the Minister of Justice, is objectively responsible that the competent state authorities have not done everything they need to do because of the lack of mutual cooperation and the expectation of decisions. That's a fact. Come in. As far as the alleged political impact of the interior minister on the police is concerned, I will remind the applicants, for example, of Ribičič. Weekly v.d. The Director-General publicly stated that Minister Mate had requested that information on criminal charges against Mitja Ribičič be made public. The order to do so was supposed to come even higher. And when the former Prime Minister was asked whether Mate should have intervened in the work of the police, the same former Prime Minister said that the police were, after all, in the composition of the interior ministry, the minister represented this area, defending it in Parliament, so the former Prime Minister did not see that, I quote, "whatever was going in the opposite direction". And I must say that your counselor, who helped you with your interpretation, has a vivid imagination. The minister is expected to have the key to former Minister Dragutin Mate's apartment for almost a year. Excuse me? When I read that, I thought it was really amazing. First, the question is whether it is a private residence of a minister, former Minister Matei, or whether it is an office apartment. If he had an office apartment, I don't think he's got a job. But then the proponents wrote: "This justifiably raises the question of what happened during these nine months of holding back the spare key of the apartment of former Minister Matei. We cannot help but overshadow the possibility of political abuse of the police, which, by unjustifiably retaining the spare key, had the opportunity to directly enter the former interior minister's apartment by Interior Minister Katarina Kresal." For God's sake, please let me know what Katarina Kresal is doing in Dragutin Mate's apartment, because that's what I'm really interested in. But I'm sure you have an answer, you have a judgment, so I have to say that in the field of your vivid imagination I will not interfere, I leave it to you. And finally, today I heard again that famous flosculo of the right political option about the turn of the transition left. You know, usually the most moralized are those who sin the most! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. It is true that Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal, who has been intertwined, has not been here for several hours. Nevertheless, we know that, once again, she is the minister, not Dragutin Mate, and that she is the one who is intertwined and not the former minister. So much for the knowledge of those you've apparently forgotten. A number of inaccuracies have been made here and such simple accusations as we hear almost every day, several times, including by the Minister on violations of laws, violations of the Constitution. In an interview in Del on 20 March, the Minister-General declared: "The Attorney-General has violated the Constitution." And that happened because the minister assured me so. And then her client colleague, Justice Minister Zalar, repeated it. And now it's a fakata or what, is that a fact?Oh, my God! These words were found with nothing, they were justified. In the opinion of those who sit in the most responsible places of repressive apparatus, such statements should not be allowed. This is the last one who can afford such irresponsible statements. And we are hearing something similar today when the procedures used in the construction project of the police building at the time of Matthew's Ministry are wrong and illegal, and the same procedures in the case of Dimič are legal. There was nothing illegal in the case of the so-called Matthew building. Why don't you just read this one more time? And the Court of Auditors didn't find out what some people wanted to put in his mouth. However, that the construction project was economic and in the interest of the State, the National Assembly was also aware when it adopted the budgets. Explanations of the financial plans of the direct users of the budget for 2006, 2007 and 2008 stated: The purpose of the project is to build a facility for the purpose of the Ministry, individual organisational units of the Ministry and the GPU carry out their activities in different facilities, at different locations, which is disturbing in terms of ensuring a rational and efficient work process. The existing premises also do not correspond to the number of employees, especially at the location of Stefanov 2 and so on. The aim of this investment, namely Litostrojska, is to allow for the concentration of the operational and other services of the Ministry and Police in one place and to resolve the existing spatial difficulties and the functioning of the units in the scattered locations. On the basis of decisions, including the National Assembly, in the past mandate is being built - still, or it is supposed to have been temporarily stopped - deliberately designed, with a building permit, with all standards, a building for the police and the Ministry of Interior in Litostorski. In no way is this project disputed and this project is not illegal in any way. It's being built by a state-owned company, 100 percent owned by the state. And after the rent payment, which means the repayment of the loan for this project, will be the owner of this or would be the Ministry of the Interior, and in the meantime the DSU, which is 100% owned by the State. This is the subject and content of this project. So there was no need to look for a new location, as this was unnecessary. The deadline was known to be autumn this year. In autumn this year, this facility is expected to be completed, adequately protected, fenced with all the relevant parking spaces and through rent of 10.16 euros per square metre would be paid in 20 years. These are the facts. For some, it's very painful. And then we get into a situation where Mrs Katarina Kresal, the Minister of the Interior, has changed her mind seven times, said the Prime Minister, has changed her mind many times, and has probably met with certain people more than once. And he said, "No, that's not a suitable location." However, it is necessary to find a reason why it is not appropriate: first of all, the nullity, the illegality of the contract, has not been established on what the security element is. But this one can always be useful. Here too, you know, at this Pogačar glass palace, I was there the last time, one rides in with a car through the entrance with a bomb, and everything goes into a luft. And there's no problem with that security element. The building is next to the road, no security, no fence, nothing. In this building, it will not be just the National Investigation Office. In this building, in a private building, I think they will now, because it was happening when we were there with the commission, that the state-of-the-art electronic systems will be installed. In a private building under this contract he has the right to be cleaned in this building, which is to enter these premises, this same entrepreneur, Ram Invest or Mr Igor Juri Pogačar, will do so at a price of some less than 5,000 euros per month. Since the price is not just rent, other costs are included. Everything is paid, all the Ministry of the Interior has to pay, not only this rent, the EUR 136.000 per year circus, but also EUR 5,000 not the month of cleaning, but 1,200 for the organisation of administrative services, compensation for the use of building land, and current maintenance, in short, except for investment, because it is not, because the facility is in guarantee because it is new. That's the problem. And all the other dilations, we can go into detail now. Here I have all the calculations, in what way, I don't know what to call it, the perfidious way in public wanted to show this favourable rent of 13.03. And yet this is not favourable against this building on Lithostrojski 10.16, it is 30% more expensive. And the state will pay the private for this building over 15 or 20 years. So 15, 20 years will pay rent to become the owner of a 15 million-euro building. Yeah, but every farmer knows what's going on here. Last time I listened to the President of the Court of Auditors, they were supposed to behave in the public sphere according to common sense. I was surprised to hear that from the President of the Court of Auditors, pleasantly surprised, because this is it. But now I ask you: Is this behavior based on sound farming logic? Or one of you would go, and the house that he wants to get, instead of going to the leasing company, and say, "Look, I want to have a house, in twenty years I'll pay, OK, so much and so, I'll own a house," I'd go to my friend's, and I'd say, "Look, you pick a house for me, and I'll pay you, not just as much as I'd pay this leasing company, but a few more," you know, you'll have one more paycheck besides, because it's happening here. In addition to the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is paying this house back to the private, it provides it with a minimalist option, although I think it is unbelievably presented yesterday because there is no period of repayment of this 125 000 euros by Mr Pogacar, which is a minimumist option of 11,000 euros a month. Isn't that a nice rent? Three are crying to the Prime Minister. According to the maximalist, and this one I think is more credible, about 50,000 euros, because this option comes from the Annual Report of the Ram Invest, which is revised for 2008. This annual report says nicely that in 2008 the construction of a business building on Dimičeva Street in Ljubljana began, financing takes place through Hypo Leasing 240 meals after 83 thousand 201.01 euros. However, the Ministry pays 136 000 if we round up, monthly, for internal affairs. Not to mention what I said before, 13.03 euros. In this square, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 10 000 450 is also included in caves. Where you have also seen a contract for renting spaces where the squares of drawers are included, also the roof - 30.44 square meters is included. It is derived from the annex to the contract. The third basement includes 1,168,80 square metres of garage surfaces, in the second basement 1,206,41 at a price of 13,03, which means that the parking space is more expensive than it is here in the garage house under Maximarket. It is said that there are operating areas of those who are subject to rent around 60%, which means that the rent there is about EUR 20 to 22 per square metre. And that's not essential either. All, the whole rent is damage to public finances, knowing that a dedicated facility is being built for the needs of the police under significantly more favourable financial conditions. And that's the essence of the interpolation known since yesterday. And that's why the minister should realize that at this point, there she wrote in the interpellation that the time of witches and the burning of the heap had passed. Here. The time of queens and princesses has passed. We are here in the National Assembly, we are talking about a serious matter, we are talking about interpretation, we are talking about building a rule of law, and here is an ideal opportunity for this confidence in the rule of law to be demonstrated. Unfortunately, she will have to leave, but this is a small price, a small price compared to what we will get in this country in this case. And that price is worth it. Years ago, the minister resigned because he assigned his own apartment, and I think that was 15 years ago. Only because he assigned his own apartment would he be entitled to it by the criteria. But since he assigned it to himself, he resigned. Here we are talking about simplifying the object, the 15 million euro value I am talking about, for which someone will be rich and the state budget will be scarce. There were some other arguments that I think there is no point in contradicting them, because they are clearly reasoned and I will later, but this seems most important to me, because I think this is the key point that we are talking about, and I regret to say that I am not entirely sure that the Prime Minister, when he was here with us this morning, understood the essence of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u56	A few days ago, on the public stand, our constitutional lawyer, Mr Ude, a lawyer who felt more like a member of the government's option, said that we should leave the Baricevic affair because it was a tragedy. That's right. It was a tragedy, a great tragedy. And one of the first comments when this tragedy came on the day was: it's all coming back, it's all coming back. And probably he also paid with his desire to return the dogs in that way, but I think that this comment, everything comes back, everything pays off, applies to everyone. For everyone, including politics, even politics. And I don't think we should ignore this life's motto. But it wasn't just a tragic matter. It's far more tragic what's come out of this affair. First, it was revealed how the police and the investigation of such cases, which are, in one way or another, related to influential people, are taking place. It took five hours for the prosecution to be informed. The videos disappeared that could tell who the unknown person was, who was then and who might have escaped by car. Quick, very unusually fast, they were all cremated together, so that even the analysis, the hair on the artificial penis, could not be determined. The police just closed the investigation, although Baricevic's sister had doubts or suspected it was a murder. And maybe this person who escaped, the witness, was involved in this act, maybe Baricevic was just saving the dog, and someone else left a hair on that penis. These are all questions that will never be resolved. Why not? Who has the power to hide all this stuff under the carpet, as far as he can hide it from the press? I think it's more tragic than how the dogs were returned. The phone calls to friends were enough, respect for the law was enough, and the minister said the only way was the right way. There is much that can be achieved through the legal path. Turns out the owner got the dogs back right away. It may have just been necessary to replace a member of the expert committee, to get the opinion of a judicial expert, a friend, to attract another friend, a brother, a judge, I don't know who, and everything went down the legal path, the only way and the dogs were returned immediately. But in the same state of law, under the same laws, under the same government, with all the same, the victims of the Bulmastifs of years and years await the recognition of their sacrifice or that the suffering will somehow be assessed by compensation. Years and years. And it's not over yet. It's not over. It's similar when I mention the town of Isola. Madam President Kresalov probably knows her well. That's where it all went down the legal path, the only way. A building permit was obtained 200 metres or more from a settlement in a carefully protected agricultural land and a castle was built, which I do not know whether it belongs to this place or not. Everything was fine, everything was on the right track. Another villager in his own village, in his own backyard, has been waiting 20 years for a building permit to build his son a modest house that he needs for his family. No, no, no. He didn't win. Same rules, same mayors, same state of law. That's what's terrible, which is tragic, and it shows up at events like this. When we talk about interpolation, we cannot pass the police treatment and try to privatise this law enforcement body. We have accepted, of course, I will not repeat what the Director-General of Police was appointed, and it was only then, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia without an invitation, and only then tried to confirm it by law. The National Investigative Authority will also, in general, be subordinated only to ministers. The National Investigation Authority will be able to determine who it will also investigate on the basis of the alleged involvement of politicians or the influence of people in certain crimes. You know how these alleged involvements occur, since some of our famous investigators or criminals have written to themselves secret or anonymous allegations so that they can then begin the proceedings. It may also be a response that there is a series of wiretaps, eavesdroppings among the coalition ministers, in the current coalition, that I am not even talking about wiretaps, which we are likely to discover sooner or later, to eavesdrop on the opposition. This is all about the privatisation of the police. And he's also with Dimichev. Given what has already been mentioned as the monthly rent on Dimičev, that is to say. The catering facility rented by the Ministry, €13 per square metre, in the building, which was specially built for the needs of the entire Ministry of Interior, the general police administration and the entire police, which is part of this circle, is €10 per square metre. The annual rent on a worker in Dimičev is 5,000 euros and there would be 3,000. After 20 years, the owner of the facility on Dimič will be able to raise, blackmail or say, "Goodbye, Ministry of the Interior, I have a better bidder," and we will be back on the road. In the case of the Litostroski facility, which began to be built in the previous term, it shall remain forever owned by the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia after 20 years. It seems that the taxpayers are doing the same thing as they would if they were owned by a minister. I believe that it is possible for a customer to buy, this is happening, and also to demand the highest places in this party and then, as a result, in the government in which the party entered. But you can't buy a country. With regard to the purchase of a client, we don't mind, it's just a matter of a party that accepts it and then becomes a servant of those lobbyists who bought the client. But we will not let the state buy or own it; it is the task of the opposition. The minister swore to follow the law and the constitution. This is in line with her formula "the only path is the legal path". But I fear, with very capable lawyers' houses and procedures that are now taking place, how this legal path works, I fear such a legal state. As a result, she also swears that the minister will act on her conscience. What's her conscience? And maybe that's what hurts people the most. And if I go back to tragically, the most tragic thing about all this is that it's becoming normal. That the government agrees with this. That you all defend this, that you don't see this, that with the prosecution's takeover, all three pillars will be held by the smallest coalition party, the president and the vice president. That's the worst. For you, it's normal -- it's the most tragic. Baricevic is just one small, small tragedy. The other is waiting for us if the Minister stays in the government, and at least this step towards greater hygiene of the ruling coalition will not be experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Katarina Kresal, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u58	Dear Members and Members! Before I start with that part that I was going to explain, I must say that I am shocked by the information that I just received from the police professional services. In fact, Mr Cernač, without considering anything, revealed the information he had received under the supervision of the Directorate of the Criminal Police, which he had received under the supervision and in the exercise of the office of President of the Commission, information which he should not have available anywhere in the public domain. He found out where the control center is. This is outrageous and, to put it mildly, scandalous! I cannot say how the matter will proceed, but I will undoubtedly follow the proposals of the professional services on how to act and what consequences this will have for the work of the criminal service. I'm warning you, in order to protect the police from doing this in the National Assembly. And it wasn't the first time that you used your professional role as chairman of the commission to use data for political purposes, for naked client purposes. I'm warning you, don't do this again. I warn you as the competent Minister of the Interior. And you said something else that I can start with - that this is not an interpretation against Minister Matthew. It's true, it's not, but it's no harm. But after what you're saying, I have a feeling it's not also an interpretation against the Minister of the Interior. Because the events you are mentioning do not apply at all to the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior and talk more about the actions that others do than I do. So now I remind you that I am intertwined, as Minister of the Interior, not as Katarina Kresal, who has friends, partners, family, mother, uncle and so on. And I am responsible for my actions as Minister of the Interior. All I'm doing is based on what I swore before this National Assembly and what my colleague Eva Irgle so nicely warned me about. Indeed, this interpolation, even after this debate, which was largely by the motioners, the opposition, I hear, has really reduced the threshold of political and other decency under every reasonable measure. Clearly, in our political space, it is truly permissible to say everything, and in every way, as someone thinks, the facts do not interfere with anyone, the evidence does not interfere with anyone’s laws, let alone prevent anyone from doing so. And another thing, lying doesn't hurt anyone anymore, even though you jump when it suits you when others lie. But your lie doesn't even hurt you anymore. I don't think you know you're lying anymore because you like to lie. And it wasn't a mistake, it wasn't a misinterpretation, it was a lie, it was a matter of saying something else, which is very clear, black on white, it's in some documents, but I'll talk about it later. A few things need to be explained that I will do without hair on my tongue; and some other hairs would not be discussed below. First, the National Investigation Office. The payment of rent from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia does not mean that it is damaged. You should know that somehow, considering you've been in the government for four years. One of the conditions for the successful performance of the work of the state administration is also to ensure adequate working conditions, and these appropriate working conditions include suitable premises. And when there is no internal capacity of its own, then the law expressly allows the capacity to be rented or purchased. We cannot link the rental relationship in any case to the purpose of allowing a tenant with such a relationship to acquire the property in possession of the lessee. I'm sure every other one of you has already hired something and knows what the purpose of the lease is. First of all, it's not the primary purpose of buying someone something. The advantage of renting before buying - you know that - but in all of these discussions it seems to me to be necessary to say out loud again - the advantage of renting before buying is that such a relationship for the tenant is significantly more effective, significantly more flexible. It can be changed if the conditions are changed, it can be cancelled, the conditions can be changed, it can be obtained more appropriate. Above all, when you rent, you don't need substantial initial cash, which you need to buy, and you know that, everyone who has ever bought any real estate. You can place the financial burden through the years of rent and if it were something so unacceptable and illegal to hire from private parties, then the country would not have 171 private leases; and this alone by the Ministry, I am not talking about everyone else, I am only talking about ministries. 171 rental contracts with private owners for real estate and EUR 33 million are paid only for this narrower part of the lease. Another lie that is constantly repeated is that there was a rental of a building on Dimičeva, where the National Investigation Office is, because we did not go to Lithostrojska; or if we turn around, we did not go to Lithostrojska to go to Dimičeva. This, of course, is not true and anyone, including the proposers, could verify this by looking at the contract signed by Minister Mate. In fact, Minister Mate signed such a contract, stating that it was null and void later, that even the current Ministry of the Interior with all its units, including the National Investigation Office, would not have had room in that building. So are the internal organisational units that would not move if they went to Litostrojska: the asylum sector of the Directorate of Administration and Home Affairs, part of the migration and integration sector of the same Directorate of Internal Affairs, the Specialised Traffic Control Unit in Vodnikova, the Special Unit for State Border Control at Jozeta Jame, the Centre for Foreigners in Postojna, the Police Unit in Brnika, the Police Orchestra in Vodnikova, the Department of Special Tasks, the Centre for Forensic Investigations, the Office of Security and Protection, the Special Unit, the Police Academy, the Safety and Health at Work at Kotnikova, the Radio Liaison Department and Electronic Devices Department at Vodnikova, the Department of Material and Technical Requirements and the Department of Autoparks and the Automechanic Workshop at Vodna, the Food Department of Tacen, the Food Department of Kotniki, the Centre of Supply. In short, the vastly existing MNZ would remain outside this building, even as it would be, would be too small. Clearly, there was no room for the National Investigation Office. And the premises for the National Investigation Office had to be sought in any case and sought in accordance with a decision adopted by the Government, which has put the fight against economic crime as a priority, an effective fight against economic crime. And one of the priorities was the establishment of a National Investigation Office. And this guy's got to work somewhere, and he needs room for that. And how did we do the rental of the National Investigation Office? Today I have heard many times that everything was well packed legally and the procedures were good, and the rent is fine. Yeah, what do public servants watch for? What were you looking out for when you made the leases? You didn't watch the law, you didn't watch the transparency, you didn't watch the rent? Then I can only think of what kind of leases you've made, not just rents, other things. We have engaged in renting this space as transparent as the Government has decided to support the National Investigation Office. Under the law, we went to collect bids for an existing building. We did not go to build buildings or rent buildings that had not yet been built, as Minister Mate did, but we went to rent a building that is existing and which corresponds to what we gave so that this building must be sufficient. Seven bids were raised. There are so many offers in the narrow center of Ljubljana, where this building must be located, namely, on the market. I didn't collect the offers. Offers were collected by the Ministry’s professional services, from logistics to logistics; services in which public servants have been sitting for years and years; and services in which there is no one from my section of the Ministry. These public servants have prepared an analysis of these seven tenders, which have been sufficient under the basic criteria. They were examined, they went to the location, they talked to representatives, they had questionnaires filled out, and they finally analyzed these offers. And in the end, they decided that it was by all parameters the most suitable Dimic's. And then they, eight people on this committee, went to negotiate at the lowest possible price. Since we were not satisfied with the first price offered, we wanted a lower price, because that's how you do it if you want to work rationally with government money that's not your money. And so they hit the price for almost 24% on 13.03 euros. This is a very good price because the price for equipped rooms, for new rooms, excellent location in the center, with garages that are open and closed. The original price they hit didn't even have equipment on it. And this price 13,03 also has equipment in it. So an equipped building, completely tip-top, for a good 13 euro. I have a feeling your price is not enough, and your procedure is not enough, but your legality is not enough. If I were to conclude, "argment a counterario" means that everything would be fine if I were to take away the next bidder, which, by the way, was five euros more expensive, the whole 18 euros was an offer, just so that it wouldn't be Ram Investment; and then you would be satisfied. Such a lease would cost the Ministry an additional EUR 53,000 in rent, without equipment. Equipment should be paid in particular. For me, this is not an example of rational work with public money, not at all. And I think you'd mind if I did. A further question that is constantly repeated - why we did not negotiate directly with Hypo Leasing, but why we did not conclude a contract with Hypo Leasing. Because the building on the market was not offered by Hypo Leasing, it was offered by Ram Invest, who bought it. He bought it for leasing, but he bought it. He was the one who was the bidder, he was the one who could afford such real estate. And -- yes, when he bought it from the previous investor, the designer, he took a lease to keep building. The building was given according to their public statements yesterday - I saw, apparently, enough of all the hints, they gave a written statement on how things were going, and they said that in early January 2008 they took the lease to pay for the construction to the last stage so that they could equip it so that they could complete it. You guys have ever built something. You know what it means to extend the third construction phase. It's just a facade. There's nothing else in it. That's why they took the lease to complete it. What else comes from their statement made to the public? That they had to invest 30% of their own resources in this project. Which means they had to put the money on the table so they could pull it off at all. Therefore, in the leasing contract that we looked at at at the Ministry before concluding the lease, we looked at its legal elements, the business elements were hidden because it was part of the business secret, and we saw that the leasing contract made it impossible for any use of this building by Hypo Leasing. Even if Hypo Leasing is the legal owner, he is the legal owner solely for the purpose of securing the financial relationship he has. But he's restricted by the contract. You know, you know, the one who ever made a leasing, because it's not some kind of party. They are restricted by a financial contract, a leasing contract, that they must not be able to sell, not to give for the purpose, not to manage this building, because it is a real and economic owner of Ram Invest. And because Hypo Leasing has absolutely no right to have access to this building, and because it is not its economic owner that can manage it, of course we were unable to negotiate with it, but we have negotiated with Ram Invest and, as it is said, we have managed to raise the price so well that a number of ministries and another state authority can hide from us. After the apparent loss of all herbs, which would still be involved in the alleged illegality of the work of the Minister of the Interior, it was epochal disclosure that Ram Invest paid much lower leasing than we paid the rent to him. And even today, in spite of the fact that Ram Invest's statement came to the public yesterday and the written statement by Hypo Leasing, you firmly claim that he pays Leasing €80,000, although this statement clearly shows that the monthly meal of Leasing is €125,000, which amounts to €1 and a half million per year. Once again, 30% of the investment has already been paid. Today, of course, the perception you want to establish is: see what the Minister of the Interior is doing. They're going to pay him first, and he's going to have a little bit of money left over, but of course you're missing out on the fact that 30% of it's already been paid, which is, if you do some quick calculation, you're pretty good at it, probably millions of euros to carry as owner the costs of all investment maintenance, insurance, running costs, everything you mentioned here. That's up to 5% of the investment, which is already a million dollars up. You miss one more thing when we're digging into what landlords do with the money they get. We have 171 more rentals, 171 private tenants who are paid state money by the ministries so that they can be in their premises. I haven't heard a single question from anyone about what building owners do with this money in other rentals. And no one asked if someone might not be paying for a lease, or if someone is not paying for a loan, or if someone is not building another house out of that money. It's not interesting, because it's not connected to Katarina Kresal, because this is the one that bothers you, not so much as the Minister of the Interior. And there's another absurdity to all this. I have also listened to discussions when we have all agreed with Mr Pogacar that we will take this building. On leasing, Mr. Pogačar bought this building at the beginning of 2008, according to the contract, it was concluded 7. 2. 2008 So, if I understand your logic, then I made a deal with him, even before there was an election before we even won a threesome plus one in the election, even before we even formed a government before I became Minister of the Interior. Yes, but I'm not so clairvoyant that I could see so many things one year ahead! It's really funny! I am laughing too, Mr Janša, and it is ridiculous that this interpretation is ridiculous, because now that I have passed the stage, when I feel sad, I find it ridiculous. The nullity of the contract. Here in this place I must say something about the nullity of the contract - in Lithostrojski. Of course, since it has been said so many times today that there is no futility, I will say in this context about nothingness. For it is not true - and this is seen by everyone who takes the Court of Auditors' opinion into his hand, that nothing has been said about the nullity of the lease in Litostorski. Indeed, the Court of Auditors in its opinion of 7 April 2009 - we asked him for this opinion because we wanted to know how the procedures were being handled correctly and what happened to the Lithostrojska building. It has made it very clear that the Ministry of the Interior is a contracting entity under the Public Procurement Act and is thus fully bound to comply with the provisions of this Act, and in the specific case of Litostrojska, according to the Court of Auditors, this is said in the Court of Auditors, the exceptions to Articles 17 and 18 of the Public Procurement Act have not been fulfilled, which means that a public contract should be made. No public procurement was carried out. You can't hide it yourself because it wasn't done. And what else did the Court of Auditors say, which you don't want to admit in any way, is the fact that it says in there. This opinion draws particular attention to the content of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act of the Ministry of the Interior. This provides for cases of nullity of contracts, namely, the Court of Auditors has specifically pointed out the fourth indent of this Article, which provides that contracts are null if the contracting authority grants the execution of the contract or the authorisation to execute the contract to a third party or a person who is not contracting under the Public Procurement Act in order to avoid the application of the law. The Court of Auditors also specifically drew attention to the seventh indent of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act, which provides that zero contracts concluded without a prior procurement procedure should be implemented by the contracting authority, in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The Court of Auditors has made it very clear that there should be an invitation to tender for Litostrojska. There was no invitation to tender, the law was broken and a clear legal basis was therefore given that such a contract was null and void. In its opinion of 4 June 2009, the Ombudsman also explained that, according to the Court of Auditors’ opinion, it had assessed that the signing of the lease contract would violate the provisions of the Public Procurement Act in the event of a dispute to establish the nullity of the rental contract. It's Matthew's lease. The Court of Auditors, the State Attorney's Office, has found that all the conditions for the nullity of this contract have been laid down. Why it has not been possible to initiate the determination of nullity - because it was not necessary because there was a procedure for the contractual divorce of the lease contract. Of course, no one in common sense will press charges just to prove their point, and spend state money if such a zero contract can be negotiated, and of course we have done so at the Ministry of the Interior. Wrong data, complex data on the costs that would have been incurred by the Ministry if it were to move to Litostrojska, and on the costs that it will have if it moves to Dimičeva, which, of course, the proponents interfere that it is either:or it is not. It's not or: or! In any case, the NPU would have its own premises. I have already written very clearly in the interpretation, according to clear, comparable parameters, what would happen after 20 years if we went to Lithostrojska, and what would happen after 20 years if we didn't go to Lithostrojska, plus renting for the National Bureau of Investigation. And the difference is obvious, and you can't miss it. After 20 years of renting Litostrojska, the cost for the country is EUR 110 million 586 thousand 050.80. If we don't go to Litostrojska, let's keep all the properties we have in Ljubljana, because, of course, we have to stay somewhere, plus we add the National Investigation Office building, which costs 48 million EUR 721.20. So more than half of it. Now I don't know, I believe you would know, but I can't explain how I can say that 50 million is more than 100 million. I don't think it's clear that it's less. And another lie is repeated all the time in this debate: that Litostrojska would eventually become a state. For Lithostrojska, a classic rental contract was concluded. In public for three months now, as I said in the opening speech, I gave all the contracts to the public three months ago, for Litostrovska and for Dimičova. And that's a rental contract and it's not a leasing contract, and in the end, it doesn't have a property transfer clause on the MNZ. In both cases, it's the same situation. They are both leases, and in the end, they do not become the property of the Ministry of the Interior. The difference is only one, the obvious one: Litostrojska would cost us 110 million, and the situation like this would cost us half the less, 48 million euros. Since you obviously don't believe our own institutions, you don't believe the Court of Auditors, you don't believe the State Attorney's Office, just in case it's very wrong how Litostrojska was built, you'd say one case. A similar example of circumvention of the law on public procurement, as was the case with Minister Mate, has also occurred in Germany and has been judged by the Commission of the European Communities. This is the case when the city of Cologne with a construction company entered into a rental contract for 100 years for a building, a hall worth about 600,000 euros. The city did not go to public tender, but it was surrounded by this lease. The same as Minister Mate did not go to the public tender, but bypassed him with a lease for something that had not yet been costed, something that had not yet begun to be built. Of course, there was a very careful monitoring of this business. The European Commission has considered it, and since the city has not broken the contract in a few years, as stipulated by the Directive, the Commission has initiated a second-degree judgment and has charged Germany a high penalty. It is the exact same thing, which, if you do not believe our own rules, believe at least European rules, is wrong. That's not how you do it. And one country has already been punished for this and Slovenia could receive the same penalty for such behaviour. So far, so much for the National Investigation Office. It's Baricevic. I will go through the individual sections that most often appear in your debates. The very persistent statement I'm hearing is that I've been directing the police in the Baricevic case for six hours. I have to say no, because it's simply not true, because I don't have such a possibility, nor does the law give me such a possibility. Police guidance can always only be systemic and organisational, never refer to operational matters. In a specific case, I was informed and informed of a tragic event that had a strong public response. It is true that I have done something in the area of police guidance where my predecessor has run out and some of his predecessors, with regard to the establishment of effective systematic control over the functioning of the police, with regard to the provision of expertise, responsiveness, efficiency and working conditions. In view of this, I have issued 17 guidelines and all related to how police must protect human rights, where they must not cross the border, how they can use certain funds. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and I have done so. With regard to the concrete effects on guidance, I think that there is a need to respond to the statement by Member Gorenak that the Prosecutor is directing the police from the moment he is informed of an event. In fact, that's not true. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has already directed the prosecution to direct the police in cases where it has been informed in writing in 2007. Mr Gorenak certainly knows this because he is a great knower of this area, but this thought has escaped him. About the information. The police told me about the event between 5:30 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Why isn't the data accurate for a second? Because I'm not being informed by the Operations-Communication Center, where all the reports are being recorded, but I'm being informed by the General Police Department, and the calls are not being recorded. Between 5:30 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., there were press teams on the scene. There was news on the Internet, and in short, the public knew what was going on. And that's when I found out. At the time, police officers were also actively carrying out their duties, protecting the scene of the act, preventing dogs from attacking the owner and themselves, shooting one of the dogs, carrying the damaged dog owner into the garage because it was pretty cold outside. During this time, rescue workers from the Ljubljana Rescue Station were on site. In short, when they did the first thing the police had to do when they were protecting people and places from possible new threats, they informed the Minister of the Interior, as they had to do. And they do so in accordance with the guidelines in force, in accordance with the Law on State Administration and in accordance with the Law on Police and in accordance with the Rules on Police Guidance and Control; and there are still some rules, and I will not read them all. With regard to informing the investigating judge and the district attorney. Several explanations from Member Gorenak have been misleading and need to be systematically processed. Once again, when the police came to the scene, there were angry dogs jumping. On the ground lay a severe, severely bitten man who was still alive. In short, the situation was not calm and calm. And what the police have to do, if it works professionally, is to first protect people's lives to ensure the safety of other people from potential danger - such a danger was here the dogs who attacked - offer assistance to the injured, then they have to call, activate a sufficient number of police patrols, they have to call a ambulance, they have to get to know experts, criminals, vets. That's the first thing cops have to do when they get here. This is a standard issue and Mr Gorenak knows this because he is an expert in this area. And that's how the police do it in all similar or inconvenient cases. That's how the profession works. In addition, the information provided by the investigating judge and the district prosecutor did not differ in this case from that provided in similar cases. What if I give you a few examples so we can see if it's the same thing? Even in a serious crime such as the Pluto murder, the police informed the investigating judge only an hour after the incident. At the time, however, they could not inform him of all the circumstances, since they had not yet been informed, since the sighting of the place would take place after that, then the place would be thoroughly searched. And we're going to ask ourselves if, in the meantime, in the matter of Plut, Minister Mate was directing them -- I think not, absurdly. But you want to force that logic on me. Similar information from the investigating judge and the district attorney as in the Baričevič case was, last but not least, in the Global case; there was a particularly serious injury. This happened in October 2007. The attack took place at 3:24 p.m. The investigating judge and the district attorney were informed only at 5:52 p.m. - two hours later, it was a particularly serious injury on the spot, which is public, where many people are and who may also have a large echo in the public. In cases of domestic violence, which are also likely to be significant, they may inform the investigating judge and the district attorney five hours after the event when they collect all relevant data. Police are the investigating judge on this day, 2. 2. At 5:51 p.m. in 2010, firstly at 5:51 p.m., on which the recording of the information at the Operations and Communications Centre was first informed by the investigating judge, and also later all evening he was in contact with him, informing him of the circumstances identified. The examination was carried out for the death of a man, not for any possible crimes that could have been committed by anyone - the deceased dog owner perhaps - or which could have been indirectly or directly linked to the event, because simply the police had not yet known about them or had not yet been established all the circumstances that would have confirmed that the crime had been committed. That's exactly what happened in this case. It is very important that more than the grounds for suspicion, which is the lowest probability that something has been done, have not been established later by the State Prosecutor's Office. I'm talking about torturing dogs, of course. The police dealt with the death of a person as a matter of priority and reported it immediately. When the indications became somewhat more, she also reported this in relation to dogs. The police also informed the investigating judge that the examination in this case - the death of Dr. Baričevič, this is the primary - must be done to determine all the circumstances. Where's the desire to sweep anything under the rug? Also, the police specifically told him that there was no telling why the dogs attacked him. So what more should we tell him?Oh, my God! He was clearly told that the circumstances of the attack and death were unclear. In his communication with the police, interestingly, the investigating judge was particularly interested in the death of Dr. Baričevič, which is understandable, in the case of a man, and in the use of firearms by police officers. Each shooting by the police is always dealt with separately and specifically controlled. He wanted to explain why the police were shooting. This is also why the police paid special attention. The report was very accurate as to where the hostages were lying, whether they were all found, how many times they were shot, that no one was at risk. That's how the priorities go: death of man, shooting of animals. That police officers have done their work in a highly professional and, above all, completely independent manner at the scene of a tragic case. For this reason, the Ljubljana Police Administration also decided, immediately after notification, that a distinguished commission of experts from the criminal police would be sent to the place, although the police could also do so. They were very careful. So to make it perfectly clear how independent they were, they wanted to check in accordance with their expertise and setting up different versions, including indics, a suspicious circumstance regarding the possible torture of dogs. That's what they warned the veterinarian. When there was only an indica, when there was no reason to suspect, they were particularly careful. They warned the veterinarian that they were not paying any attention to this, whether they themselves had not discovered it. Then what were they trying to hide? What they wanted to hide if they said everything that was going on, if they were acting in accordance with their profession, if they were flying after a veterinarian, they were alerted to changes in the body of dogs. From what I've said, it turns out they wanted to clarify all the circumstances. They did everything they could to clarify all the circumstances. And what police officers or criminals report specifically to the investigating judge when they report a case to him is a matter of their professional judgment. They learn that in schools, in classes where they do it. It is a matter of assessing a particular case, a specific situation. In doing so, the minister has no influence, no question at all, and I wouldn't be asked if I wanted to talk to them about it, because it's not my jurisdiction and they know it, and I know it. A tour of the scene is a very strict professional rule. And the leader of the crime scene is completely independent. And so it was in this case. And one more thing to point out is that there are judgments of the courts, legal judgments of the courts, which clearly state that even if the investigating judge and the prosecutor are not involved in the examination, such an examination is not illegal, because it is always carried out by the police in principle. The question is, is there an investigative judge or not? An investigative judge can't do his own examinations. That's what the police do because it's her job. And there's some interesting information about the presence of the investigating judge and the state prosecutors at the crime scenes. Some of them have already been mentioned by Mr. Potsch. I think it is right to say them again, because they may then show a larger picture, in particular to prove that there is no point in commenting that an investigative judge and prosecutor would come to torture animals and that the indications that they might have proved should be reported before the death of a man, before the shooting, before everything else. It is a very big exception that the investigating judge and the prosecutor come to see the scene of the act. From 11.237 cases of sightseeing in 2009 only in the police administration area of Ljubljana, the investigating judge was only present in eight cases. In the last ten years, there have been approximately 300 cases of animal torture. He was neither present nor investigated by the judge nor by the district attorney. But it's another shocking information for me. The data of the Ljubljana Police Administration also show that the investigating judge and the state prosecutor do not participate in sightings of the place nor in such serious crimes as triple homicide and suicide, attempted murder, personal bodily injury by death, rape, sexual assault on children and so on. As for the torture of dogs itself. The reasons for believing that dogs were caused by suffering or by suspicion that a crime of animal torture had been committed were confirmed only on 11 February when the National Veterinary Institute sent a report on the investigation or disposal of dogs. On the basis of this, the police have drawn up an official note on the detection of that crime. The police, as they had explained and stressed many times before, immediately informed the Attorney General and began to collect notices. And who's the one who finds the animal torture, who's the expert on it? The police aren't the expert on that. The expert on this is the National Veterinary Institute. And the National Veterinary Institute was the one who could not confirm either the suspicion of animal torture or the suspicion of animal torture. In his report, he gave six reasons why animal changes could occur and could not choose which one was the right one. The police only summarized this finding because, as it is said, it is not an expert, it is not an expert, it does not have that authority. But the police have taken another step forward. In her report to the District Attorney, she suggested that the District Attorney should appoint an expert who would decide, on the basis of these six options, whether torture had taken place or not. However, the District Attorney's Office has not decided to do so and the expert has not been appointed. Also after the police gave the prosecution a report, they did not require any additional notification, no addition to the report. This can only mean that the prosecution has also found that the police report is complete, that it is correct, that it has been carried out professionally and that the police have done their work thoroughly. Finally, this is demonstrated by the many annexes given to this Recommendation. There were 54 attachments. It is also worth mentioning the opinion of an expert in veterinary medicine, who has been notified during the collection process that such dogs cannot be sexually abused or tortured in such a way. I stress the opinion of an expert in veterinary medicine, not a cop, not a criminal. And it should be clear to everyone that the police cannot carry out the activities of other institutions. The police don't do DNA tests, they don't do autopsyes, they don't dissect dogs, they don't see the cause of the injuries, they don't look for hair, they don't do that. This is the work of the National Veterinary Institute, forensic medicine and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. In this regard, a few more statements have to be answered, which have been made in the context of individual performances. For example, Member Jelinčič had quite a few of these. It's about cameras that aren't supposed to be examined. That's not true. The following streets were visited: Oražnova, Oslavijska, Glinska, Postonjska, Road to Rosno valley. It was found that the only surveillance system on Oražnova Street is 9 video surveillance, which covers only the yard of this house. This was also seen on the computers of the owners of this house. With regard to the change in the end of the event, Member Jelinčič's statement again. In criminal matters, the rule is that the place of the act can, even more, be changed before the scene of the act is inspected if the life of people or property is to be protected. This was also the case when police officers took the seriously injured dog owner from the yard, where they found him on the ground, into the garage of the apartment house, to protect him from further dog attacks and low temperatures. Minus 5 degrees Celsius was that day. There's nothing disputed if the police come and find a biting man who's still alive at minus 5 degrees Celsius to take him inside. Not only is it not disputed, but it is also professional behavior, but if we give in the end, humane conduct. And the police have also shown a great deal of self-sacrifice to ensure first the safety of all those who have been there, to the best of their ability to help the injured, to perhaps remain alive, and this is controversial for someone. That's hard for me to understand. As far as the presence of others is concerned. On the basis of all the notifications gathered, in addition to the fact that there were witnesses there who watched what was happening - two witnesses were, who alternately followed the whole event - they also gave such notices: the Centre for Forensic Investigations, the National Veterinary Institute and all of these together present evidence that there was no one there but Dr. Baričevič and his dogs. I believe that imagination likes to work and that perhaps I would like to imagine and want to imagine that there was more going on there. This can result in real essays, interesting readings. But they weren't. There was no one there. And that's what all those institutions that are competent to say in this country have said. And it would have been time for you to stop fooling around and just accept the fact that nothing had happened in the Baricevic case. Once again, as I said at the outset: the trial stopped the prosecution, the body you unconditionally trust; that there were no third parties, witnesses were found, and all the authorities I have just told. That there was no animal torture, inspectors and appropriate laboratories were found and that investigative judges almost never came to the scene of the act. Almost never, almost to get to the scene of an act of animal torture. This isn't happening. And if you put all these facts on the table properly and honestly, you could also say that the police have done their job properly. And they would not do it for the subdivision of politicization, for it is wrong that ye do it, not I, do it to the police; ye fight against me on its shoulders. Because I don't fit you. I don't fit you like I am - different because I work for the rule of law because I'm not afraid to make a principled decision because I mean with my head. That's why you're scared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Look, very quickly, some facts. You say it's counted with some instructions. Who issued this instruction, I don't know, you or the D.A., but there's no legal basis. The Public Prosecutor is deemed to have taken over the direction of the police in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed. All according to instructions, which speak otherwise, have no legal basis. Call him or put him in the Constitutional Court, or we'll take care of it. You know, talk about when the investigating judge was informed. Yeah, look, in the case of Friday, he was reported to have been notified in two days. What's the joke? The joke is what cops say! And in the case of Mira Petk, it was reported that there was only one beating, and if there is one beating, there is no crime and the investigating judge is not going. In this case, there was something else, something completely different. Look, when the cops got to the spot, I'm not gonna use these vulgar expressions to make us not taste too bad when the cops got to the scene, and they saw a piece that had something on it. This man didn't lie to me, but he was a gambler before the dogs bit him. And they wouldn't bite him for that. And the director of police made it very clear that they are, because you confirmed that they had informed the veterinary office that there was one and that kind of thing pointing to that and that. That's not what they told the investigating judge, and here's the problem! The investigative judge found out on 22/20! And that's why we're talking about six hours of hole. Nevertheless, with experts on the spot, I have little difficulty now accepting all this information, so don't make fun of those criminals and police officers who were there. These police officers and criminals were, first of all, shocked. Which one of us wouldn't be! For the first time, they had a severe shock, that's one thing. And don't say that after fourteen days they figured out something might be wrong when the vets said it. Yeah, if Fire Report wrote that the same night, the cops knew it before him. They saw what was in there, but you didn't tell that to the investigating judge. But this is less important to me. It's a much less important matter. The more important thing, Madam Secretary, the more you don't want and you won't and you won't. You say some numbers there, I try, and they don't wear my glasses, and they don't carry any MPs, I don't see anything. But answer the basic question and I'm asking it again. May I have your answer, Madam Secretary? Why do you pay 136 thousand euros a month? Why does Mr. Pogačnik charge $125 000 to a small town? And why is Mr. Pogačnik left with 11,000 a month? Why are you paying for a parking space of EUR 509, which is an apartment, and this, Mr Svetlik will know, is a big apartment. And why did Mr. Mate have a contract for 55 euros? And Mr Mate had no contract and don't compare it with Germany, but I don't know what he meant or had a pre-contract. He had a prenup. Once again, why are you sending 11,000 euros of our taxpayer's money there a month? This is a fundamental question. And answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Černač spoke on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u62	Yes, Madam Secretary of the Interior, you weren't in the hall when I spoke. So I'm going to repeat what I said: that the most modern electronic systems will be installed in this building. And I didn't reveal anything about it. But you are, I must say, below, when you rushed to the hall in all the sting, and, as I recall, you discovered something very important. And if the suit that your secretary of state threatened me to file here in the bench goes down against me, I expect it to fall against you first, because you've revealed something that you shouldn't reveal. About the Baricevic investigation. What was the main clue in this interpolation? It was obvious that this investigation, due to the fact that the Minister of the Interior held her hand until 21.50, i.e. almost 6 hours, led her to prove herself to be unworthy and unprofessional in the public eye. If we're going to ask now, who in this country believes in the independence and expertise of this investigation, I don't know if 10% of the people in this country say yes. So many conflicting statements, so many conflicting opinions, the police themselves got involved in statements when they said that one dog was shot and two were euthanized. According to the National Veterinary Institute report, all three dogs were shot to be abused. In the investigation, these dogs were almost cremated. Last minute, that cremation stopped. The camera at this address was not inspected, but it was believed that it did not cover the area. In short, there are many indictees who say that, in accordance with article 2a of the Police Act, which speaks of directing the work of the police to take over by the competent state prosecutor, the Minister of the Interior has been conducting this investigation in a strange way. However, the additional suspicion of the credibility of this investigation occurred at a time when you publicly announced that you had informed your partner, and we know that in this case there are quite a few names which are obviously very coincidentally related to this story. About the National Investigation Office building. There was no need for this procedure. No need. On the basis of decisions taken also in the National Assembly, construction for the police of the dedicated building in Litostorski began in accordance with all standards and in order to solve the problem of the entire Ministry of Interior and the General Police Administration. It would relax Stefan's 2 and Beethoven, thus also providing premises for the newly established National Investigation Office. With the Litostroski facility being built through a state-owned company 100% owned by the country - and that's the point you don't tell. DSU is 100% owned by the country, yesterday by the Capital Investment Management Agency Act you transferred it, this company, to this agency, and all the benefits and downs of this company will also burden taxpayers. And if you're working so irresponsibly with your own company, with a state-owned company, so you cancel the contract with the state-owned company first, and then you're going to hire a private company, it's pretty clear that something's wrong here. Maybe the rent is 13.03) is beneficial if we ignore that about 40% of these rooms are in the basement, say a garage, 1,168 square meters, a urchin, a urchin, a urchin, some elevators, warehouses. In short, approximately 4,000 square metres are unusable spaces, of which 10,000 are not usable for the purposes for which the building is leased. If we ignore this, it may be 13.03 really good; but if we compare it to 10.16, there is 30% higher rent than in Litostrojski in the state company. And you can't defend it, look, with all due respect, Minister, you can't defend this business! You're here as Minister of the Interior, you should present to us today what was the main motive for this story going on - we haven't heard it. We have listened more to this private owner's defence of public interest. And here's the problem! I don't know if the other Members are aware of him. There was no need for this process to take place, the relevant premises were acquired, this fall would have been realised, so the motive was something completely different and not a motive for public interest and the provision of appropriate conditions for the police and the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to this conversation or duel, and I am also grateful to the Minister for providing some concrete information to help us understand what the essence of all these dilemmas is. As you know, we have acknowledged that we have quite a dilemma regarding the purchase or rental of such premises, but these dilemmas do not refer to a specific case and ad personnel to Minister Katarina Kresal, but are dilemmas relating to a system that allows us to rent as much as 171 such buildings. And so, the question is, from here on out, from this interpolation forward, we will really seriously, reasonably think about maybe a new system, whether there is an alternative that is more rational. This is a key question, not whether Mrs Katarina Kresal here has created a precedent that is not a precedent, but is the continuation of some existing practice. What is important in this debate is that we have actually heard arguments, counter-arguments. And if she holds what she said and proved with some data, the minister means that the other side is lying. It means the other side was building an interpolation point that was the most sensitive. For the other two chapters of interpolation, of course, are part of a structure that even has a morbid or even necrophilic surface that goes beyond the limits of good taste. And such discussions on the Baricevic case, such a tragedy, an attempt to politically abuse such a tragedy is in itself untapped. But if there's a white fox at that point, it's that white fox that's on that famous magnetogram that we don't know about yet, who influenced and tried to influence the investigation, actually. That's a key question. I hope that one day we can all read that white fox we didn't read in a magnetogram. If we come back to this crucial question, because this is the only saving plant for the opposition at this time and it is trying, of course, to focus all attention on the issue where the whole public is justifiably, justifiably sensitive, and that is money. Money, public property and, of course, creating a phenomenon that could be called real estate tycoonry. That's what this is about. However, some of the mechanisms allowed by law in the market, trading, leasing system can easily access certain real estates and, of course, also conclude favourable contracts with the country. It's not the first time, and it probably won't be the last time, but if you're up for it, let's talk seriously about legislation that's supposed to prevent such opportunities. And if these options are legal, this is a systemic issue and it is not an issue of interpretation against Minister Katarina Kresal. There were quite a few interesting things in here. For the first time, I have heard of the number of such rented premises, in particular, whether the Court of Auditors, as the Minister has said, has found that the elements for the nullity of the contract in Listostrojski were. Does that hold? Were they elements of a violation of the law on public procurement? Have they been identified? If so, Mr Chernač, you have not told the truth; and if so, I think this needs to be clarified. As far as I am concerned, I expect the Court of Auditors to review this business as soon as possible and also compare business and tell us whether public interest and public property have been damaged. And on that basis, I would hope to make such a valuation at the expense of that minister or that minister. At this point, there are not many of these elements.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u66	In 2009, the Minister spoke about the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors had declared this treaty null and void. A while ago, and this also exists in online archives, this statement was denied. So the lease, as it was done in Litostorski, is not subject to the Public Procurement Act; it is not subject to the Public Procurement Act. The rental in Litostorski was carried out through a state-owned company and the investor of this building is the state-owned company DSU, DSU Real Estate. This is a significant difference in relation to a private company and nothing was wrong with it. I ask the minister: what are they going to do with this house in Lithostrojski? It's state property. It's not true that this house wouldn't be state-owned. Indeed, it would not be from the MNZ after 20 years, but after 20 years, when through this rent 10.16 the loan on which it is built - or leasing is nevertheless - is this house owned by the DSU, which is 100% owned by the state. And that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u68	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are already working in the National Assembly this year on the third issue of ministerial cities. For the first time, we have faced the fact that apparently in a threesome plus one, as has been said today, there has been a lack of confidence in one of the ministers, the president of one party, and in the end, throughout tragedy, if I may say so, it has only been said that he no longer enjoys confidence and then the Minister has decided to resign. Then they followed two interpolations. One of these interpretations should probably also be at this April meeting, but in the meantime, it has happened that the agricultural minister who received these interpretations, due to the certainly highly controversial procedures they carried out in this tragic case in the preceding period, is said to have started last year. Finally, this was not a problem; the problem was some hearing, some conversation of the minister with one of the Members. One speech is supposed to follow one of the controversial laws. And then that was the reason why the minister resigned and we said good-bye to another minister. The Minister was also in a rather spectacular manner by the police, or in a police way, taken from Portorož by consulting the partners directly into the investigation, and also in this way a period of cleaning up one matter was interrupted. I have said on my own many occasions that I hope that this will not be done by the new Minister, but we certainly expect the President of the Government in the Slovenian People's Party and all the authorities involved in this to clear up this issue. Now we have a third case, this is the intervention of the Minister of the Interior. I do not want to repeat the arguments of either party that have been made here today, but I must say that when I think about the two things that are shown here as the two most controversial, obvious to myself, this is about the conduct of the police in the event of this tragic event and the second time about the purchase of police premises, I personally attach to the claims made in this interpretation. And I think both things kind of point to two networks that show up. One that has already been mentioned here today is a real estate one. In this real estate case it is totally indisputable to me, and in the Slovenian People's Party we took so much time and also asked the people working in this state institution to give us a detailed presentation of the elements of this treaty. It is not clear to us personally, as well as to all of us, what has been said at the end of the day by the Member of Montenegro, that the country can afford and that it is going this way, that instead of carrying out this procedure with a state-owned company which was built in the context of a certain construction, financing, then making a leap and transferring it from this state-wide sphere to another network. And in this part, we are firmly determined that this is not a proper procedure. In the first case, with regard to this tragic event, I think the whole country has faced the fact that certain decisions in the country are taken in different ways. That we have such different categories of citizens and citizens, whether they are injured or those who are in charge of procedures with a country where the very power of certain legal societies that have carried out these matters is shown to be largely significant. And, we want to or we don't want to, there are certain connections here. That is why I think it would be right for this act, such as interpretation, which, as also stated in the first sentence of the Minister's reply, to be judged by an extremely important mechanism of political control. I hope that, as has been said, not all judgments have been adopted before, although many have been so in politics. And I hope that even the judgments of those who are in the coalition and today you are saying that you will not oppose the Minister, you seriously mean that, and that you will also do so by supporting the interpretation. Because I think it is right that the Slovenian public also knows what is business, that 46 votes are needed and that those who do not support interpretation vote in favour of such acts and support such acts. I will personally support this interpretation in the Slovenian People's Party, because I do not support such acts and practices in Slovenian society.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister and minister! For the introduction, let me say that I will not have much controversy or engage in a dialogue with a colleague who had the task of doing the opening part because it was intended to make a more artistic impression, to make as much a scene as possible. In addition to the written material attached to the interpretation, I will be politicising with the speaker who is doing this task today on behalf of those who have signed the interpretation. To begin with - because some are talking about things that they do not know exactly, but a little after the historical memory - if we are already talking about interpretation with regard to the former Minister of Defence, Mr Krapeš, it is necessary to say that this interpretation has been tabled and signed by a group of people, composed of those who signed this interpolation, namely, with Mr Špiletic, the first-signed Mr Jerovšek, and the former Prime Minister, the long-standing President of the SDS, Mr Janez Janša, and so on, not to mention. Look at him. The devil is in detail. At the time, however, the Director of Government Services was the Director of Police in the previous period, Mr Romšek. The statement you gave today, Mr Černač, is written in an explanation in one sentence by the then Director of the Government Service of the Joint Services. This is what you were talking about assigning an office apartment, but the government's application for an apartment has not yet been decided and so on. You said today in your implementation that "a few years ago the minister resigned because he had granted himself an apartment, I think that one 15 years ago, just because he had granted himself an apartment, he would have been entitled to it by the criteria, but because he assigned it to himself, he resigned." That's not true! You have already invested and it is not good to contest the content of the interpretation, which was then also signed by your party president, Mr Janez Janša. Today you say that Mr Krapež was entitled to this apartment. But it's just for an illustration that if you go back to talking, sometimes it's good to look at things. Otherwise, interpellation itself as an important mechanism of political control over the work of the government and individual ministers requires a responsible attitude both of those proposed and of those to which the interpretation relates. General accusations and general rejection of accusations do not strengthen one of the most important institutions that we have at our disposal in parliamentary democracy. And if from this point of view I assess the content of the interpretation and the answer to it, we need to find that the content of the interpretation is very weak for a more serious political account with Interior Minister Katarina Kresal. If you have read the contents of the interpolation well, you may quickly find that the writers were slobbering on their own. That's why you have an individual charge or suspicion in this interpretation written down 5, 6, even one 7 times in the same or similar way, only the commas are placed elsewhere and the other large initials are placed. It is an attempt to impress volumes and comprehensive interpretations. If I understand the meaning and content of this interpretation, which is the second in a bad year against the same minister, the opposition continues and continues unrelentingly with the attempts of political cleansing of this government and tries with all means and all political help to prevent changes that eliminate bad past work and practice. I wonder, however, whether there are not many attempts, especially the SDS and sometimes the whole opposition, with their contribution to cleaning up this government, inspired you, the cleaners themselves, to thinking about cleaning up and cleaning yourself. To at least think for a moment about whether or not similar actions could also clean up their own species, whose spirit and conduct many times more poison politics and this Slovenian space than anything else that is around us. Therefore, on this occasion too, it must be said that the current opposition with this fragility and, as they have repeatedly stressed, constructiveness, far from being part of the solution to the problems we face in all areas, it is often part of the problems themselves; and perhaps even the key part is not to be solved more quickly. However, it is your legitimate right to prevent the success of this government and this coalition by all means. The question is whether it is also legal when you deceive the public with half-truths, lies when you interpret some of the government's moves, individual ministers and ministries. This is also, of course, the case when you speak and I will focus on one issue that has been bothering me more for the last two months, this is the political impact on police work by the policy, in particular the Internal Minister Katarina Kresal in this mandate. For it is necessary to say that it is the reverse process, I emphasise, it is the reverse process. For a good year and a half, the depoliticisation process has been under way, which, above all, has been well integrated into this institution in the previous term. It does not have to be a big "membrance" to mention some of the facts that prove that in the previous term the police were in a transferred sense without a director, as his role has been quite successful by the Minister of the Interior. To restore some more or less well-known facts and events: the deprivation of liberty to Prosecutor Penk and Zidar, as well as the extremely unusual and controversial comments of the current Interior Minister on the decisions of the investigating judge. And not just that! These comments were also, as it turned out later, the design of complete falsehoods. Secondly, the public notice of the complaint against Mitja Ribičič, when it was already in the hands of the prosecutors, despite the fact that the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, had submitted an initial request for publication to the opinion of the officials who had advised the minister. But he insisted on doing so. Thirdly, Ambrus, when the interior minister led the action after the megaphone and promised the citizens that the Strojan family would never return to Ambrus again. Fourthly, and finally, Patria and the unfortunate Interpol dispatch just for 14 months, which caused the mistakes, under quotes, we have major problems today. And something else would have happened when the former Minister was carrying out the tasks of the VOM intelligence officer and was spying on the ambassadors in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the week. And to end, another typical example of reasoning on this interpretation, which is drawn to itself. This is an easy case in the interpretation of interpolation, when an attempt by the Minister is made to have a political impact also on the fact that the former Minister Mate was not returned to the reserve key of the staff apartment after the expiry of his term of office - such is information. In doing so, interpellation investors wonder what has happened in these months of unjustified retention of the spare key. You are even going so far as to suspect that in this way the interior minister had the possibility of entering his apartment and could thereby violate the constitutional right to inviolability of the apartment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all of this may be the subject of this suspicion of yours! However, some information suggests that after almost two years, the former minister still resides in an office apartment that he has been assigned to at the Ministry of Defence. And I ask whether it would be time to return this key from the service apartment, because today it is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And I ask whether, even in this case, any political influence or any other network of this information on whether it is still in this office's housing does not affect that this apartment has not been deprived of it to date. If you are already saying this by reasoning on the political influence and abuse of the situation and in interpreting it, then it is good to have a little bit of interest in the roots of the same matter as in this case of this apartment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u72	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you. The father of independent Slovenia, the late Dr. Jože Pučnik, has often said that the essence of politics, that it is values, that it is a matter of matter, because as a firmly convinced Democrat he sincerely believed in fundamental democratic values, that a single state is a framework within which democracy must rule in the most positive sense of the word. And today it's a matter of values, it's a fundamental question of every democracy: who controls the overseers. If this may not be the focus of this debate in the public eye right now, it is in fact a core, a valuable core of what we are discussing today. For if Slovenia were actually a democratic state, with a long democratic tradition, with a high political culture, then, in a materially verifiable disclosure of the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has planned and systematically deceived the Slovenian public from the very beginning into such a sensitive and divisive matter as the Baricevic affair, this would mean that the next day the Prime Minister himself would have proposed the discharge of the responsible person, that is, the Minister, because of this act and thus maintained the political level and reputation of the current authority. Unfortunately, the opposite happened. More than that, when I spoke with colleagues from some foreign parliaments, I had this opportunity the last few weeks ago, I asked them how they would react if it turned out that specific methods and means had been used within Parliament. A single reply from the representative of Germany, the representative of France, the representative of Great Britain, the former Minister, even a long-standing member of the English Parliament, was uniform if this were revealed to be used in Parliament by the executive branch of the authority against the opposition of the specific method and means, then the following day a question of at least the responsible minister would be asked. However, if it were not for the President of the Government, the Prime Minister would immediately react, and a question would be raised as to the existence of the entire government and the entire coalition responsible for this act. And in Slovenia we had an affair of Watergate, the use of special methods and resources in Parliament. Moreover, it has come to the point that armed police officers have entered parliament and arrested one of the Members for a matter for which all legal professions that are of value in this Slovenia agree in one point, regardless of the barava, whether they are purely left or purely right, but in one point they agree. That the case that led to the arrest of the President of one of the parties had no indication of the crime. It may have been controversial in terms of political culture, but it was by no means something that would have obvious signs of crime. There has been an intrusion of the executive branch into Parliament. And for use, which is far more controversial, the use of specific methods and means in Parliament. In a normal democratic country, if I quote this elderly gentleman, the former Minister of the English Government or the British Government, he said: "If this were to be revealed to us, then surely everyone in Parliament, to the last, whether from the then authorities or the opposition, would vote in favour of the immediate resolution of such a government. It is for the new government to be able to make a more neutral assessment of why it really went and to preserve the credibility of power as such." For it is the credibility of an institution as such, in a given case of a government. However, if Parliament, according to the statements of the current coalition, appears to support such behaviour, then, of course, it will also assume that part of its responsibility. But I ask you nicely, not in this way then to react as one of the members of the coalition tried before when he said that we are all responsible for the decisions, even if we vote against it, because we are all part of this Parliament. Well, this is, of course, at odds with fundamental constitutional principles. Following constitutional regulation, we have a Parliament, in Parliament, normally a coalition, i.e. a power that also assumes responsibility, and an opposition whose control is the exercise of its constitutional mission. Regrettably, some in the coalition - I even hope to say, in view of the statements made by the great majority - are willing to freeze, even when it comes to violating the fundamental human rights of their own members. For it also came to pass, according to the things which went forth into the public by some strange ways, that their own ministers were also heard. Well, that's not for anyone to think. Which one of you will be next in line, ladies and gentlemen, who today "hold the staff" of this lady, who is personally and objectively responsible for this because she is on this post?Oh, my God! Madison, one of the fathers of the U.S. Constitution, who can be exemplary precisely because of the balance of the various branches of power of any democratic constitution in the world, once said, "Whoever freezes, when the authority of another threatens his human rights, is not worth it and will soon lose them." And you're already there, ladies and gentlemen, and your people are listening, and they're leaking information about it to the public. Nor does this give you sufficient confidence, nor to fulfill your constitutional mission, which says that you are representatives of all the people, and that today we would define ourselves with a decisive "no" to such conduct and therefore vote in favour of the discharge of the person responsible for it. The type of advocacy that we are witnessing to him today and is roughly in this sense, "because it seems to us that someone went across the road by the pedestrian crossing, but now we have the right to drive the highway in the wrong direction," of course, does not hold serious judgment - by the way, it is strongly ridiculous. Therefore, it makes sense to avoid answering direct questions, to avoid evidence and to try to turn the debate in the wrong direction. For undisputed documents show that the Ministry did not speak the truth. Just look at the case so you don't say "no documents." "Once upon a time, it's twice," they said. Example: "This is why the leadership of the police," which is the MNZ, as it is within the Ministry of the Interior, "the cause of the death of Baričevič's dogs was already lying at their first press conference after a tragic event, because the report shows that Atos had three gunshot wounds, Atlas had two gunshot wounds, and Bitch Joy had one gunshot wound in the head." So they were shot from above and there was no talk of veterinary injections and so on; I prefer not to quote all of the way they looked from the last end. And if anyone doubts these reports, I took care of it in time and copied all the documents published there from the "Fire Report" website; for you will not believe it, we have just found that all of these pages have suddenly disappeared. I believe that the pressure of the executive branch of power, probably backed up by capital and relevant strong lawyers. This is said to place pressure on the media and limit media freedom in Slovenia. That really proves it, ladies and gentlemen! It is human rights, the right to information and the question of whether this Parliament will be able to achieve an absolute majority today and thus fulfil its constitutional task of overseeing the executive branch of power, which has proved and proved to be a lie, ladies and gentlemen, these are all documents. If anyone doesn't have them, I'd be happy to show them to him and step down. Because I said there's never a time, but it's twice, look at another case. When a lady who used to perform with such cheap pathetics found herself traveling at a speed of between 160 and 200 kilometres an hour, the same lady said here today, "I respect the law consistently." Hey, who's gonna believe that after this event, ladies and gentlemen? But also when it comes to the issue of marriage, it is also a question of credibility. Again, it is a question of credibility, in particular because it is the most sensitive, repressive branch. And what can we read? First statement, Mrs Kresalova was in private this day with security guards somewhere in Primorska, Slovenia. Second statement, two hours by e-mail: 'The Minister of the Interior was on a private road in neighbouring Italy on this day, accompanied by security guards'. Interesting. So again, there's an untruth in a long line of similar untruths. But what is particularly interesting about this is the question of equality before the law, which is a constitutional category. This same minister was a protected person, for a protected person's family member was also a protected person who used a 1.5-euro car to purchase a car, launching an extensive investigation in Slovenia and everyone wrote about it. In a given case, when it came to her shopping in Italy, which was more cost-effective than it could be understood, I just wonder how extensive the investigation then only now must take place because it is precisely the same: for someone to have gone on a private trip with a car and also used security guards. It's exactly the same thing, there's no difference! But of course it's significantly more expensive because it's a journey abroad. Interesting, isn't it?Oh, my God! Well, let's move on. Among the things that are certainly most sensitive in the given situation in Slovenia is the treatment of taxpayers' money, especially in terms of meeting the interests of certain individuals and groups, because it is in fact the only policy that is identifiable when it comes to the sharing of money in this government. It was interesting to know this was the Minister's defense earlier. If you've listened to him carefully and thought out the extravagant words. All the difference between what she basically confirmed in the interpolation and what we are referring to in the interpolation is that we have derived from the words of Mrs Katarina Kresal's friend, who, in the present case, is the one who receives this rent, and from which we could conclude that the state will pay him even the real estate, which, of course, will be in his possession and will be extremely valuable, leaving him with some 5,000 employees in Mura or LTH in his personal pocket. Mrs Katarina Kresal says that this is not true, but that the country will only give him two-thirds of this property, so it will pay through this excessively high rent, and, of course, it will still have 5,000 employees' salaries in Mura or LTH in its private pocket. A terrible difference, I must say. She probably didn’t even realize the truth before the National Assembly at that time. Because 500 euros, ladies and gentlemen, for a packing space, for 500 euros in the city municipality of Kranj you can get an adequate apartment - even with a parking space worth. Some of the apartments of this type, especially social ones, have recently been awarded for a lower rent. That's probably everyone sitting here now, if you look at things from that point of view, a little bit from the side, you see what's really going on. Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget, this is done by the minister who claimed before the National Assembly and before the Slovenian public that she would never make any deals and deals with friends, relatives, acquaintances and so on. Today, the record has already been turned upside down because there are inexcusable facts and documents. So much for that. It is very interesting to observe, and it would also be interesting to ask who this lady was, to advise the Minister as much as she had today. Because the fact is that he was wrong, and the fact is that the same error can also be counted by the entire coalition and government. Because the fact is that the money of all taxpayers went largely into private hands; that special methods and resources were used in Parliament; that the Slovenian public was systematically and deliberately deceived by the Ministry of the Interior in the Baricevic affair; and the fact is that the defence of this authority was limited to freedom of expression. So human rights are under threat. I will therefore vote in favour of the dismissal of Minister Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello to the Secretary of State! I have a global interest and would like an answer to the next question. But if I ask just one question, maybe I won't be as clear as I want to be. First of all, I would say that in the Minister's replies earlier, I was very disturbed that she used the words "coalitional triplet plus one". I think that we have signed an agreement that we are equal partners, so we are four coalition partners. That's the first thing. Second of all, I'm interested in the contribution that Ram Invest made to the facility. You'll say it's not a question of interpretation, but I'll tell you why I'm interested. How much did Mr Pogačnik invest in the facility? I'm primarily interested in the real value of the facility. On this basis, it will be easier to determine whether this lease is economical or not. On the basis of the information circulating in the public, this facility is worth 12.7 million euros. Later, Mr Pogačar added that he had invested 20% to 30% of his own resources. The claim "20 to 30% of own resources" is based on very fragmented foundations. Speaking of which, 20 to 30, with that kind of money, there's no small difference. Whether it's 20 or 30, it's more than a million euros. For a large number of citizens of this country, this is an imaginative sum, and it is probably not for Mr Pogačar, because he does not specifically say how much this contribution was. Why is it so important to invest in an object - mainly due to comparison. The value of the facility and the payment of the rent and that the facility remains the property of the company, whose representative is Mr Pogacar, are very important matters. This is mainly what the mayors know from experience in various investments based on public-private partnership and the allocation of building rights. If we compare percentages, how much more we invested in objects of value, then we can begin to doubt that this was an economical lease. 32 million euros in rent in 20 years, I don't think it's economical. Especially in the time and situation in which the country is currently. I have no doubt about the correctness of the choice, you have carried it out in accordance with the regulations and instructions that you yourself have accepted. However, I can provide you with information that the country is paying for renting premises in municipalities outside Ljubljana from 3.5 to 7.7 euros per square metre for those premises that were not, under the terms, "nationalised" in 1994 with the Administration Act. That's a big difference. And there's something else about the welfare of employees or officials in business. You know, we have to look at this a little differently at this point. Times aren't good. And my feelings as a member of the National Assembly in my office are not the most favourable: I work with a professional worker, and my two colleagues have a way through that office. But I'm aware that times are as they are. I wonder how our pensioners feel about the 400 euros pension, and I wonder how our workers feel about the minimum wage, and I wonder how they feel about social supporters, if I can call them, who have unfortunately lost their jobs recently. I think it's very bad. Time for such rentals is not appropriate. And that. How can an official of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry cost the country a year to rent a space of EUR 2492 and a staff member of the General Police Office of EUR 5558 per year. Time for such rents, my dears, is not appropriate. If you would like to know my decision in the end, how will I vote: depending on what answers I will get from the Minister. If she convinces me - so much better; if she does not, I will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Interpellation, which is a very important and serious matter and given that we will today decide on the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs, we will decide on the basis of the documents submitted and on the basis of today's debate. If we look at the documents submitted, we can see two different types of documents: one is the interpretation and the accusations of the Minister of the Interior, and the other is her answer. If we have read these two documents thoroughly, we can see a significant difference between them. Interpellation is superficial, repeated, with the same texts across different pages of content, while the Minister's replies go consistently, collected and responsible, as we expect from the Minister. Of course, it is also the credibility of such ones who have submitted the interpolation and those who reject the evidence. And I would limit myself to just two things. The first is that today, on the part of the initiator, the interpreters tried to say how the previous government and ministers had very high standards, that some ministers and Members had resigned and left, and one fact was presented substantially differently. Mag. John Petty Officer did not resign, but was relieved. It is only one way of displaying data, and I think that the Members of the previous mandate have not forgotten this because you are telling a different story there today. I myself would limit myself to one of the very important areas as an omen of interpretation, which is that the Minister has trampled all democratic procedures upon the appointment of the Director General of the Police and has actually put her man in this position. Here goes not only on the Minister, but also on the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which usurped so-called repressive authorities in this government structure. Of course, I cannot possibly disagree with this for a simple reason, for when someone talks about others, he tells the most about himself. And if we just look at the behaviour of Minister Kresalov in relation to the depoliticisation of the police and the attitude towards the same issue in the structure of the previous government. As early as the previous term of office, a law on civil servants was adopted, where the then government structure ensured manoeuvre that it was very quickly, within one year, it could have had free hands to replace those personnel they did not like. Thus, the former Police Director-General, Mr Anželj, was very quickly resolved and replaced by a new proposal, Mr Romsk. How did this human resources change take place? Certainly not in the professional course, because if you look at his life course, you will quickly find that this was a very close associate of the former Prime Minister who was coming from a completely different field of work experience, this was from the Ministry of Defence, and that he had left the police force in 1998 and was doing less difficult tasks at the time he was on the police force. You quickly placed him in 2005 as the Director-General of the Police, without valid professional references, referring to the public of the proceedings, to the official council, which, of course, he chose, not as was said here today, among several candidates, 15 that there were always so many, as far as I know, two candidates - this is Mr Romšek and Mr Rudi Kaniški. At least this was done; between these two, a choice was made and proposed for confirmation. What's the practice today? It was quite obvious that with the law on the police, the minister subordinated this department. Practice and direction were just the opposite. Mr. Gorenak, you can look at the monitor and you're laughing at what you're reading. But I listened to you seriously and it seems to me that the findings you've been addressing here are also worth considering, given that you were also an official or involved in these structures and in these organs. This was a measure where the staff of the very close co-workers of the former Prime Minister was placed at the top of the Ministry of the Interior and the Director-General of Police. Unlike those methods, the new method of appointment ensures that an independent expert is elected to the post of Director-General. The current Director-General's lack of expertise and experience, I don't think there's any way to tell. It is also not to be seen for a simple reason that it has more than 20 years of reference in this area, and it is certainly offensive to suggest that it is actually the Minister's man, because in the previous term, on a proposal by Mr Romsk, he was appointed as Director of Police Administration in Celje. So it was also assessed in the previous structure as competent for a leading post in the police. When I read the interpolation, it was interesting to see how the current opposition assessed the establishment of the National Investigation Office. Repeatedly, the opposition is also committed to restricting, preventing and prosecuting any economic, financial, corrupt, criminal acts to combat corruption. But, isn't it interesting when we evaluated their actions, we could see how a great effort was made in the previous term to prevent the Kosovo Commission from operating. Isn't it interesting when the opposition at the time wanted to have an investigative commission, what was going on in Mercator's sales, that it set up an investigative commission quickly, thus preventing a then coalition. Today, when we have the National Investigation Office, which was set up by this government on the proposal of this minister, everything is wrong with it. Is it a truly fair purpose for the opposition to be willing to address these problems, or is it the opposite of discrediting the minister in order to prevent these effective methods of police work from continuing? The effectiveness of police work is inexcusable, as statistics say, and this is also in response to the interpolation that the effectiveness of the crimes investigated has increased considerably. From 2008 to 2009, say, for the month of June from 42.5% to 47.6% and for the month of July from 39.3% to 46%. If this efficiency bothers anyone, then the interpolation is aimed at discrediting the minister and her successful methods. I am pleased that the Minister insists on her work, that she pursues the path of clear and transparent work and also assumes her responsibility. It will not hide itself and does not want to hide behind a public competition to set up political personnel in the leadership of the police, but it has taken responsibility to propose competent candidates for the conduct of the most responsible functions within the police and to propose to the government, which then assumes responsibility for the appointment. Unfortunately, I cannot support the interpretation you have proposed with just one view of the conduct. This is another experiment, which is even less precisely defined, which is very flawed, and I am pleased that the Minister insists firmly on the path that she has in the effort to establish order and to fight effectively against any form of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, I wasn't laughing at any cartoons here on the computer because I'm serious and I don't look at things like that. I laughed at you and your efforts at trying to defend you in an argument, but it's not working. Some facts. There's always been as many candidates as I said. And if we agree to your thesis that in 2004 or 2005, when Mr Romšek arrived, it is not true, as you say, that there were only two candidates - so they were. Today the situation is that the minister says, "My candidate is this one." She comes to Parliament, she changes the law, and then this candidate is elected. You know, that's what's stupid. Don't talk about the expertise of this candidate, because I know him much better than you do, and I don't have any comments on his expertise, and I've never had them, and neither have any of us talked about it, and there are no comments. Maybe you know the answer to the next question. [[I'm taking advantage of this time.]] : Why do you pay - 136 thousand she gets and he gets 125 thousand, and why does Mr. Pogacar have 11,000 left after the house has already been bought for the state money? Maybe you know that answer. I'd be very happy to. Just a sentence. Mr Mate is in a state apartment, but the ministry has yet to find a job for him, which must be found by law. Thank you very much. You haven't found it yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm afraid the Minister isn't here. So it's another interpretation for the same person in this government, I believe it's not the last. During the year and a half of her ministry, there have been so many accusations, accusations, sins, affairs that one has to wonder how this is possible. I believe that all internal ministers of all European countries do not have as many sins and so many accusations behind their necks as ours, as the flawless Minister of the Interior. But the affair of all these sins will not be repeated, for they have already been seen repeatedly. I mean the Bulmastiffs, then this reckless work of state money around these NPU buildings, and so on, I'm not going to list all her other sins. By the way, I'd like to point out the way and the effectiveness of police work since she took over this facility. Our police are not bad police. He enjoys a great reputation in Europe. Years ago, I remember, it was to praise the police of neighbouring countries, Interpol and so on, European police, always praised our police as professional, effective, prepared to cooperate, so that I do not know what must be changed in this area now - the work of this police. Perhaps, as we have seen recently, increased cooperation with criminals? These affairs around these lands, and all that has happened, these wiretaps - to detect the active cooperation of the police with criminals; and those who have been accused are not convicted. And it's mainly about persecution, about persecution against politics, MPs, ministers, on wiretaps, I think, obviously not on its own. Today, in her opening speech, she went to a very clumsy counterattack on us Members. It has begun to list the sins of Members back, from the previous term, to accuse us of not being good, but it has completely forgotten that we are not intertwined, we are being intertwined every four years by the people. She's being intertwined, we're interpreting her, and in accordance with the Constitution and the law, because we put her up, we have the right to suspend her. She must defend herself to us, and we must defend the people. And she says she's a good minister. Members have already resigned, the ministers have resigned, and in some ways she has been involved everywhere. She encouraged the discreditation of the good ministers to tell you, from the heart, I have good memories of these ministers, which she has promoted, that they have had to resign or have been "disposed" so that I do not use any other, more suspenseful expression. There are still enough good ministers and ministers in this ministerial assembly. She can't compare with them. We've been watching them for a year and a half, listening, working with them, making an impression in our hearts and in our heads, and I'll tell you, this minister who's been intertwined today is getting out. Not because of her appearance, because of what she did, because of her character. We can't compare this minister to Mrs. Jelusichev, with Mrs. Krebs. They're ladies, they're ladies, they're mothers, they're women, they're nice women for cooperation. Please, my opinion: this minister doesn't have it. I don't want to be insulting. I'm not insulting in my eyes. It's her character in my eyes, I'm sorry. At least I have that right, or I too will be prosecuted when I assess someone as he is in my eyes. And it's not just in my eyes, it's in the eyes of a lot of MPs, and, I believe, even coalition ones, it just doesn't hope to say it. I have the right to compare this minister with other ministers because there is a big difference between them. I'm sorry, if that's insulting when we characterize ministers, as we think, and then we can go home, I think. Based on what? Her actions, her attitude towards her colleagues, her co-ministers. What's happening in this coalition, its attitude towards other ministers, when it's dismantling them, when it's listening to them, when it's criminalizing their actions, when it's actually destabilizing their personality. Ministers who are popular in people, who are not criminals, as they eventually turned out to be non-faithful workers. They went for such trifles that it's all very banal. These affairs that she has on her back, to say the least, are very serious. And if I focus on her character, it's the fear of such a police minister. To tell you, history has shown what such people are capable of doing. They are dangerous for this democracy that we, our generation, have fought for, including a number of ministers who have now had to give up. And now comes someone who has a fixed idea that the rule of law is what he thinks it is. Yes, people, please. Are we sheep here, or are we fools here, or are all of us in the opposition stupid because we look at this democracy and the rule of law a little differently? Please! We're not kids anymore, we're adults, before we merge, and we're afraid of what's happening now. Such persecution, Orwell could not possibly have imagined in modern times. I would suggest that the minister read George Orwell in 1984, and that a crappy animal farm wouldn't hurt her. Well, if I finish. Again, I do not want to be offensive, I am critical of the character of such persons - not only to the Minister, but also to the many people I am accompanying here. And I cannot criticize it because it is not good, because the situation in Slovenia is becoming unsustainable and because of one minister. In addition to repeating: all honor to the ministerial assembly - wonderful people are among them and I will support them, and I have supported them. And the Prime Minister himself is a good man, but the grave is being dug by someone else, and he doesn't even know it. I'd rather say that this interior minister of ours is a city - you know where - in the bar. There's a lot of work to do with bad guys, and there's thieves to defend criminals, and you don't even have a conscience about it, because it's your job, and you're paid well! I could work in the show business, not last time. The last place a man with that kind of character can work is in the service of the people. Humanity will not be able to make one person of its own accord; it cannot change the way of life, the way of thinking, the sense of justice of two million people; it will have to adapt if it wants to remain in that service. That's it. And I repeat, I do not wish to be offensive, but I am very critical because such people don't like Slovenian people; they don't like to be led to shut them down, to listen to them, to punish them. The way she asks her police to work, it's not right. I believe it's not easy for a lot of cops to take part in this kind of work, because the cops themselves are right, but they have to obey, the boss has to obey! Look, not least: to brag about how great efficiency has been in the last year. I'm not saying anything. We can go to Sharia law, we'll start cutting off the thieves' hands - no one will steal anything else, they'll walk without hands, and they won't be able to steal. We'll shoot economic criminals. Believe me, in a short time, no one will steal anything else. But where is that civilized way of suppressing crime, that I do not speak of respect for the laws, and yet I could also list what I personally disagree with her work and her character. I repeat: it is time, Madam Minister, to go! You pose a great threat to democracy in this country, for all that our generation has fought bloodyly 20 years ago, which you have not actively experienced, and you probably do not have in your heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u81	Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Let me first say that I expected from you, Mr President, that you would somehow react to this last debate, especially because I believe you are a priest and a doctor by profession, and I was counting on you to be able to perceive in this debate a lot of offensive and rude and demeaning, certainly something that is not worth allowing in the debate in the National Assembly that I am not talking about the personal disqualifications that he has just given himself. I must say, I protest against such an act. And I'm particularly worried because I read somewhere that my forerunner also worked as a teacher in school. Today, I have heard something very unusual from the interpolation investors, and most of it, I must admit, not surprisingly. In particular, I am not surprised by this unbearable ease of accusation, instigation, inducing a dark and morally distorted background and so on. It is my opinion that only one who has all this in his own head can function in this way. All this affection only saddens me, it grieves me that we are getting more and more permanent residence. That's funny! Permanent residence in this National Assembly, but I am convinced that I am not a judge and that it judges, if at all, anywhere else. As far as I'm concerned, all the reasons for the interpolation and the alleged apparent arguments are very unconvincing to me. I am even more disturbed by the lies on the proposalr's side, but also by what you today, your respected colleagues, have silenced me on purpose. It is presumptuous how many lies you have made about the Litostrojski building, and you even claim that this, otherwise illegal investment, is more prudent and more economical than a specific lease on Dimičeva. You have ignored the Court of Auditors' position and opinion, you have overlooked the fact that the Court of Auditors has stated that such a contract is mere null and void; otherwise you say very much how concerned you are about legality, about illegality, but of course - set up a mirror. You deliberately silenced, for example, that the Supreme Court gave it to the Minister when it refused to hand over to the investigative commission a list of persons who had conducted certain procedures concerning the deleted, and today you claimed that the Minister had prevented or made it difficult to do so to block the work of the relevant investigative commission in the National Assembly. The members of the investigative commission also had to take a particularly stubborn stand against both the rulings of the Supreme Court in this case, since the President of the investigative commission, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, did not intend to introduce these conclusions at first. And only at our express requests, members of the investigative commission, did we get these two conclusions, the photocopies of both conclusions, at the time of the last meeting of the investigative commission, when we held hearings of some of the persons who were just coming from the Ministry of the Interior. True, today is not an interpretation of the former Minister of the Interior. However, it is very interesting that, in the case of interpretation against former Minister Matei, the then coalition referred to the same arguments as it does against the minister today, at that time, to the benefit of the minister. With regard to the Plut case, you have already received your lesson from the court, or it is quite late, and unfortunately another person has had to tragically lose his life. The other actions of the then minister, who has taken over the command more than directly in the specific police procedures, have no point in speaking at all. Today, you report to the current Minister of the Interior that he is unlawfully interfering with police procedures. I hope you can at least understand this duality to see it, because it's more than obvious. Today was also a talk about illegal wiretaps. At the time of the former Minister, it was legal. Remember Postojna. But you're not that short of a memory. Well, let me get this over with. Mr President, you have recently declared the homosexual orientation of people for the disease and in these cases recommended referrals to treatment. The same recommendation should be made today to address notorious liars in their own kind. I think we can still help. And of course, the interpolation itself is not going to be supported by chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. Well, even though I was named, I'll abstain from replicating. And I give the floor to Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The bad conscience must be borne by the interpellation's proponents in order to fear the interior ministers and so vehemently attack them with lies, with circumstantial evidence that they do not have, that is, designed and based on these evidences, by the media, some of which are even the owners of their client and which are exactly what they enjoy or can use today in order to dryly, I can say, to accuse the minister of a crime that she has not committed. The worst thing is, they talk about everything, not only about her actions, not making an affair out of the tragedy of a man whose investigation is concluded, and they know that she can't get a different epilogue as he was made, but that one person's misfortune must be linked to everyone they knew and all accused of any human inclinations or personal traits that the deceased would have. Without feeling and shame for the pieta to the dead man and relatives who have to listen to this over and over again and see in the media, for example, in the Reporter articles that do not fall within the context of someone who has died and is always the target of such and different stories that the media can do, it is understood, but cannot serve as evidence for the actions of the ministry, the police and so on. It is simply an attempt to create doubts about the correctness of police work, including the future state office, a special investigative office. It's probably because some of them are signatories in the investigation or if they've committed any crimes. It cannot be past the fact that today we have heard that this is a problem if the police are investigating policies that commit a crime; it is thus impossible to place this in the democratic context of the functioning of our country. This means to me that some want politicians to be untouchable and that they can do anything because, for example, they are Members or Ministers or whatever they are, that they are untouchable and that no investigative way can be imposed against them by the police which detects crimes. I don't see any problem with that. If it doesn't work out, it does with earrings. And if, by chance, any minister among them is involved in these matters - yes, like everyone else, on the principle of equality before the law, it is right for all of us to put accounts in this country for our actions. Therefore, I do not see the need for the Minister to be attacked because the police within her department are doing this work more and more intensively, increasingly in the belief that such and other crimes in the country should be tackled and the perpetrators punished. For this reason, I reject these graves, including the lies at the expense of creating Mr Baričevič's affair and that part of the interpolation, I do not understand at all what is justified and therefore cannot support it. Also, the rental of premises, which we have heard a lot about today, is an interesting thing. I myself understand this strong investigation about this, which, among other things, uses some old data on the knowledge of investment so that today's price and rent can be adequately elaborated as a disaster. We can probably expect to cancel all the contracts, all 171 contracts of our ministries and the state administration with the ministries to bring them under tents in order to make it cheaper not to starve those who have 400 euros in pension or 500 euros in salary and will be satisfied with justice. So filling up is, of course, a rough embezzlement of the real fact that it is not possible to buy a building that is not on sale, that it is not possible to provide enough money at the same time to buy an object, especially if no one wants to sell it, and it is important for me as a citizen and taxpayer whether the rent is such that we can say that it is not excessive and that it is in accordance with market law regarding the price of renting business premises in the middle of Ljubljana. And it is important to me that this price is not higher than the comparable prices of other ministries, which are also in rented premises. On the other hand, some of the renter's profits wouldn't be a problem for me. Who's renting their business premises? All investors in the business premises want to return their investment by rent. We have rented accommodations for the retirement home in Šmareti, and there the guards pay 30% higher price just because the investment has ended the private and wants this money back in 12 years. In 12 years, people will pay for this investment, not in 20 years. In 12 years! And of course, it seems equally impossible for me to trouble myself with what's going on with the rent. It's the landlord's thing - for me. I must say that in my first term with our parliamentary delegation in Brussels, and at my evening visit to the embassy, I learned that the rent for the premises, for the embassy house, was so high that we could buy it in five years if we paid the rent for five years at the same time. The price of the house was a five-year lease. However, the country did not do so; then we were given an explanation that it is easier to provide that rent every year than at the same time a five-fold sum for buying this facility. As soon as you go to credit, the thing starts to get irritated by the cost of the credit it generates. Thus, this story is not problematic to me, we have received the necessary answers and I do not see the problem myself, and because of this interpretation point, it is not for me to justify supporting it, especially because it is impossible to accept the fact that only the rental of one of 171 rentals is problematic. She is a problem for you, ladies and gentlemen, because she has been signed by Minister Kresalov, who is poorly tolerated because she is capable of respecting the constitutional decision concerning the deleted because she wants to do what the laws say, because she leaves the police free conduct when it comes to investigations and wants to run you in accordance with the law, in such a way as to catch as soon as possible and sanction the perpetrators who are no doubt large. And I believe the attack on her is due to the fear of those who have done something wrong and can expect it to happen, that the police will knock on their door. I believe it isn't, but the fact that the group of signatories with the fictional facts has come to this conclusion. That's why the secretary has my support. And this interpolation, as it is, in its own great splinter, cannot get support and will not get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'll be brief because I think we're losing too many words. Above all, we are losing too many words in connection with the sad tragedy that occurred before the time of some political and media violence; if any happened, it happened both media and political. I agree with the President of the Government when he said that this is a case that I will not even appoint out of respect, because we should no longer appoint him because it is not a political matter of tragedy. Then there was much talk of perversion in such and different forms. But tell me what is more perverted, when someone is supposed to act, which, according to individual estimates, is immoral, perverted when they commit this act, or when someone looks with pleasure at it in a voyeur way. Unfortunately, we're all bloody under the skin, and every one of us is going to make such mistakes. I have a feeling that part of the public and part of the media has manipulated this terribly well, and unfortunately part of the policy has used this case as a weapon. And if it's sad, it's sad. People, man died, living beings died in this tragedy, but part of the Slovenian public enjoyed it for several weeks, part of the Slovenian media took advantage of it for several weeks to raise its ratings. And here, I don't blame each other because I think that everyone with their colleagues on the other hand would agree that part of the policy has abused it. I don't mean sarcastically, I honestly think, because I know my colleagues on the other hand, I seriously don't think they're like that. The second topic, which is very much on the wallpaper today, is the question of renting premises for the National Investigation Office. I also have some doubts here, yes, Minister, with respect, yes. On the other hand, all the data I receive, these doubts - one after the other - dissipate. The first question, the question of leasing, because, as far as I know matters, in the economy, it is logical that a rent cannot be higher than a loan or a lease for a certain investment. Of course, if it were a lease or a full investment loan. As far as I know, as much as you said yourself, it's not like that. There are other questions that are still open and that would deserve further clarification, with the amount of rent, not only of the premises, but also of all, not only of the office premises, but of all the other belonging spaces in this building. However, it is true that when a person is in a ministerial position, he may at times be able to make decisions in which he may still have some open questions, but he thinks, and for this he also bears the responsibility that this decision is best among those at his disposal. Most likely, the decision itself, or some macroeconomic rules for renting such large areas, was not the most appropriate - in ideal conditions. So if we had other options, if we could buy, if we could invest, that would be better. We know that, as a country, we are bound by some rules, which sometimes also put us ahead of decisions that, on a short notice and on a specific occasion, turn out to be bad. I think that renting space for one whole office is not the most prudent decision, but there are limits to restricting our spending in order to make that decision; that is also true. In the end, acquaintances, relationships, and acquaintances are revealed. Yes, this is a major problem in Slovenia - at all - because Slovenia is a small country. And we find very quickly that all of us, more than one or two, know everything, and therefore even a slippery area that doesn't excuse anyone, but it's a general slippery slope even when it comes to dealing with public funds. We know the rule of six degrees of connection, the theory that everyone in the world should know more than six degrees of connection. So in Slovenia, where we have a two million people, it makes sense that this rate is significantly lower. I am of the opinion that only acquaintance or kinship cannot be the cause of guilt, but it may be a reason for so much more care to make sure that it does not go wrong. And that's where I'm gonna figure it out. I think that the actions that are being reported are based on assumptions that can be dangerous and do not in themselves constitute a reason to resolve them. It would be better if the so-called state-of-the-art ministries were politically different, it would be better, but the political reality and negotiation at the outset of the formation of the executive body, namely the government, led to something that is not a crime in itself and is not a mistake if everyone is morally and ethically strict enough to be able to limit themselves. Of course, it is better when we have other restraints. It would be better if business were always with people you don't know. Unfortunately, this is very difficult in Slovenia. Simply put, it is very difficult for the two million people. Finally, decisions would be less burdensome if they knew that these decisions did not depend on the situation around them. With this I do not wish to say between the lines that if I did not depend on it to make a different decision, because I will not support interpolation, but I could make a less burdensome decision and also admit this burden of decision. Well, because of all this, I think the arguments outweigh the direction of non-support for interpretation. However, in the following decisions, I wish to see less unfortunate circumstances in which they will decide and not necessarily relate to subjective decisions, but to objective circumstances. I mean acquaintances, I mean the arrivals or non-revenues of state authorities to certain places, events and so on. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear and respectable Madam Minister. At this point or for some time, two phenomena have been happening. On the one hand, we are witnessing the implosion of the current government, the internal collapse, as the Prime Minister has been unable to find a candidate for the agricultural minister for some time. On the other hand, it is inconvenient to defend ministers who, by all minimum standards of democratic and minimum standards, have matured to subjective and objective responsibilities for resignation and should withdraw from themselves. The day after Dr. Baričevič died, we had an internal policy to deal with the issues of deleted. At the time when we had not yet known anything about strong policy interventions for the return of the Bulmastifs, we knew nothing about the decadent practices of members of some associations, nothing personal about subjective responsibility, but at that debate I said that more important than an important debate on deleted persons was to know at that time whether Minister Pogačnik had already deleted himself from the list of ministers. He defended himself scrupulously, but it was clear at the time that he could not defend himself if there was still a number of democracy in Slovenia; and, of course, he left the scene of the Ministry. There was also sufficient time and the Minister had sufficient time to think thoroughly about her responsibilities to be objective and subjective in order to give up. See, our perceptions, Slovenian public are the best criteria. From then on, from the artificially built Virgin of Orleans to this day, she has become a cold - blooded ruler; that is how she feels about public opinion. Why? We have three cases ahead of us, each calling individually after a resignation. In fact, the obvious corruption in the case of the National Investigation Office, the Baricevic affair and the statement by which, as interior minister and police minister, she was thrilled about the introduction of German peace in Namibia, and the subjective responsibility in the Dimicev case. When we discussed in the parliamentary groups the interpretation that the opposition had to file for responsibility when faced with clear cases of abuse of position and corruption, I suggested that we wait until then, because the media had been intensively investigating both matters and every day they had drawn a controversial statement from the minister, which denied the previous statements. I am sure that, in fact, without the Minister's intervention, she would have stepped down today. Interpellation has protected the Minister in the centres of power in the background. Strong pressure on the media began through so-called legionaries, because we know what was written, and threats to journalists who had at least succumbed to them in some media were no longer in a position to investigate. And since the Baricevic case was involved in any way, some or all of them have also been involved in sweeping the matter under the carpet, we have called them the "garage coalition", then also the "earth coalition", the "big zemon coalition". Of course, that was an extra signal and pressure on the press. And we hear that the press are under a lot of pressure not to write about these things; I know about specific pressures. Therefore, look, since there has also been a "earth coalition" and this affair, which indicates the catastrophic state of things in our country, I am so much more surprised by the actions of Prime Minister Pahor. This time, the Minister's conduct was covered by a puzzling fear and a cautious president of the government. We can also think of the pressures on him from the centres of power, from the capital centers, from the various political centres behind, that he covered it up so laxly. But by assuming responsibility, including for the corruption that has taken place, Mr Pahor has humiliated and made himself laugh. He just humiliated himself. Today's work, of course, says that they humiliated one another Pahor, the largest moral, intellectual authority among Slovenians, Mr Boris Pahor, who was proposed as the honorary mayor of Ljubljana. And that's part of the same policy. Amazing how they tried to humiliate him, discredit him, and make him smile. He shouldn't have become an honorary citizen. And here we find one incident, both of which concerns the name of Pahor. Mr Pahor also covered by taking responsibility, Mrs Kresalov's statement after that long silence after Baricevic's absence, seeking alibis for her absence, and not wanting to say where she was, she said - so, for the masseuse - that she marveled at the order in Namibia that the Germans had made there a great order: with genocide, with 80,000 dead. Even Heather had to immediately withdraw directly from the post of head of the country in order to make a significantly less severe statement of admiration for Hitler’s employment policy. And, of course, there are many who cover such statements, which are of concern to the interior minister and the police minister. Think about it! To support terror in this way! And bloodthirsty beatings. The Ljubljana mayor also covered and rewarded the statement made by those who would be an honorary citizen, namely that the Tigers were terrorists who killed children and burned schools. That's what he's rewarded for! And Mr. Pahor said, "Ljubljana is stepmom to the Primors." And if someone is rewarded for making such a statement with an honorable citizen, it's terrible. Therefore, with such a state of spirit, the ruling elite seems to be able to say anything in Slovenia. And those broader elites, power centers, various associations and so on, where they also associate, their statements, their sometimes decadent actions are rewarded. I'm sure Mr Boris Pahor, an academic, would be appalled if we asked him about the state of the spirit in Slovenia. That's what he says. For corruption against the rule of law wins the "earth coalition" against the police, defeating the victims of dog attacks against owners and animals themselves. Think about where we came from. In this country, the winner is also Mr Pogačar, who was involved in the SIB bank, in severe damage to taxpayers and also to Ljubljana's citizens. But, of course, because of personal knowledge and all that, not only was it rewarded, the state invested in its ownership of EUR 20 million without additional resources practically. A colleague said that in a well-known company, of course in Slovenian Renault, they have strict rules of business that they cannot give a salon or a store or anything to an entrepreneur who would have a lower rating than A or B. Mr Pogacar, his company, has a rating in banks D. That means whoever gives this money away throws it away, is unlikely to return. And, of course, abroad, with serious companies that have to make their money, it's an outrageous thing, and such a businessman here in Ljubljana would fly directly from work if he did something like that. Our secretary is protected. Our minister is protected and, of course, additionally in this building, I have heard from the building types they were building there, and from the architects that he claims this building is on that very expensive parking lot, more than 500 euros for every parking space, and a police van with a light on the roof can't even go because of the gabarita. Think about it. Think about the way government and tax money are distributed. Because of the clarity of the situation, it was an abuse of the situation and a clear case of corruption, it is also part of the coalition today. The representative of Zareza used it to defend her party chief, she did not defend the Minister, and I therefore expect Katharza and so on to appear before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. According to the literary theory of catharsis, I've been following some powerful dramatic shocks, and I haven't experienced them at this last performance. Only once again has it been confirmed how many things can be combined into some opaque text, which does not at all fall under the agenda item. But it's not even the only one I'm going to respond to in my own word. The opening argument also stated something that was resilient, as it was said, at least so after the National Assembly, that interpolation or under this interpolation should also be signed by a number of members of the coalition. Well, let me begin by saying that in my dreams I would never have thought of signing under the text that was tabled against the work of Minister Katarina Kresal. In his opening remarks, my fellow Member, Mr Ptrč, said all that was necessary in connection with interpretation, the role of interpolation, the responsibility of those who insert interpolation, what needed to be said. Nor was he able to follow the interpretation when he represented the position of the Group of Members, but he could follow the three conclusions drawn up by the Minister in response to the interpretation. That's why I'm going to say this a little less politely and a little less law-abidingly, very precisely, that this interpretation is a rag and not a puzzle for me, because it lacks internal coherence because it lacks arguments and lacks follow-up to the predicted points. But what follows is something that is quite likely to be found, one of the basics is that Minister Katarina Kresal needs as often as possible to prevent good work. I will also, of course, ask myself how to understand this thesis in the introduction: "Afera Beričevič has demonstrated in all her scope the turn of the transition left from falling standards to adjusting legislation, to abuse of different types of positions, to express customerism. "But how can it be that, under this interpretation, which speaks of the Bericevic affair as suggested by the proponents understand it - it is a tragedy for me - so how can it be understood that one parliamentary group supporting the interpretation has sent an invitation to the Prime Minister of the Government to finally stop dealing with the Bericevic affair and to start dealing with other things. Now what? And why should I feel responsible for what happened that fateful evening that I was destined to be a victim, if I was not there, if I was not there in connection with this event that was necessary for my behavior, I had already learned everything when I was listening to the interpellation investors, but it seems to me that they didn't read anything and that they didn't want to accept anything that needs to be said. And at the same time, I find it very interesting to see another comparison. When we spoke in the previous term about the responsibility of former Minister Matei and when we discussed the events in the Postojna regarding the Strojan family, the State Prosecutor's Office very nicely covered all the Minister's conduct - since you do not need to be reminded of who did this at the meetings of working bodies. With regard to the rental of premises, I would like to say just one thing: 171 lease contracts were mentioned earlier by the Minister, including the contractual relationship for the rental of premises of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Well, let me say that this is a contract that goes back to the previous term and that this contract was concluded on 26 February 2008 and is a little more difficult than that contract concluded by the Ministry of the Interior. There is 13,46 euros to be paid for a square meter and then 125 000 euros per month, then there is a need to add rent for parking lots and functional land. Only so much so that leases of premises took place in the previous mandate, that many have been asked about this and that the numbers were relatively high. Now, about the Litostroski building. I am pleased at this moment with what I know about these matters, even what I know about the matters of renting premises, but I am not the one to judge on this matter. For this reason, there are institutions in that country that can say so, just as they assess the events in Oraznov for this competent institution. There's something I'm just curious about. How was it possible to obtain a building permit for this building, or who even issued a building permit for this building negotiated by former Minister Mate? How was the purpose of this building determined at that time? Indeed, when these figures and these facts came to the public and began to talk about this in public, it was also suggested that the threat of this area or the inappropriateness of this area for the activity for which this building was intended to be intended and could not be accommodated by the Ministry of the Interior. At the time, it was suggested that the current Ljubljana mayor had done this. But the qualification of this area to be inappropriate for such an operation has been years ago. I think this decision goes back to the '90s. However, in all this matter, it is very interesting who built this building and that my colleague, Melita Župevc, had already said that there were a lot of business with this same company in the previous government, which is 186 million, and I do not know if all the transactions were recorded. And this same company has been rebuilding the client's building, which is one of the interpellation investors, so we don't talk about anything else. Finally, because I wanted to avoid it, but the previous debate by a colleague from the Slovenian National Party prepared me to say what I should not have said, but still. When Mrs Katarina Kresal spoke about how history dealt with women, I remembered another example from literature, Danil Lokar and his short prose Brother and sister, I would quote: "It is guilty. She's beautiful." And that's a common criterion for judging. I don't envy anyone - not youth, not beauty, not wealth. It bothers me, though, if a man is vengeful, it bothers me very much if a man is vengeful, if he is wicked, and if he is stupid. Now, I can't tell you how to understand that it's an eternally recurring pain that the Minister has been declared Slovenian for years, but something else. I look at these different titles that are given, but I look at them as saying recognition to a certain profession, some activity. And if a politician has been declared Slovenian for years, I take this as a tribute to all those who work for the good of people in politics and thereby increase the acceptance of political action for women as well. And I must say this, in the work of Minister Katarina Kresal, I can only confirm because I recognize that she has solved some great shame that has been unresolved in Slovenia for many years, that is to say, taking into account the Constitutional Court's decision on deleted persons, that during her ministry it has begun to happen to find those who are violent to minority groups, that even some of those who have caused horrendous reckonings with those who are different have a constitutional right to diversity, and that is also their fundamental human right to be condemned, and that there has been nothing against the fact that a group has demonstrated in front of the court that the deprivation of its life options has been demonstrated because those who have committed violence against another group have been condemned. But I was at the Cafe Open the night after the attack on gay activists, in this public space on some round table, where I heard the testimony of those who were at the Cafe Open when they threw the torch into the space and I'm still shaken by that. It was not a joke and it is not possible to say that intolerance to others is possible and acceptable to express in such a brutal way that it should be for young people, but it certainly was for adults who must be responsible for their actions. Therefore, I will not support the interpretations against Minister Katarina Kresal for all the above reasons, but what else can I say, which I consider to be good for her, that has changed in the police department since she is the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u91	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. Today's interpretation is a good opportunity to talk about the rule of law and how we respect the rules of the game in this country. It is right to talk about the reputation of politicians, the reputation of this house. It is right that we ask our conscience and want to clean up before our own threshold. It is wrong, however, to deal with ourselves, rather than all our strength, to focus all our energy on solving people's problems, solving the economic crisis, resolving pension reform, health reform, solving everyday problems due to the crisis and our interrelationship with the resolution of this crisis. It is also right to discuss that the Government does not accept the well-intentioned advice of the Slovenian People's Party, the willingness to participate in the resolution of everyday problems. It is right that we discuss our differences. Regardless of this diversity, we are obliged to come together when it comes to Slovenia and Slovenia and the Slovenian state. That's why we're here at work. You might still be able to continue in that style, but you've said a lot, Your Honor. At first, I thought that I would not answer at all, in order to allow more time for those who were more informed about matters and interpretation. But I remembered the mockery last summer in the summer when I first started asking questions in this National Assembly of the Minister of Agriculture about the illegal return of dangerous dogs, bulmastifs, with a desire to protect people from these dangerous dogs. A known tragedy has hurt me. You wouldn't listen to me, because if I did, it wouldn't come to her. The abuse of positions of politicians is responsible for this tragedy. And because of the ambitions of such politicians, we are wasting valuable time here in the National Assembly. Being overly ambitious for an individual is a well - known truth. If such an individual is in an influential position, he may be harmful to the wider environment. If excessive ambition reaches the throne, it can be tragic for the country, history is convincing. It was clear at the beginning of her political path that Minister Kresalov was going to have problematic connections. Overemphasizing ambition shows in various ways. He wants to get rid of others at a symbolic level and confirm his own superiority. The need for the most prestigious and expensive clothing brands is certainly noticeable. He participates in different parades because it's fashionable. Whether it's the difference that makes us rich or the one that's tragic for the future. It is important that it currently contributed to popularity. Excess ambitions are essential links to capital. Even those for society are tragic. We are therefore deciding today not only about renting a business building in Dimičev, about the Bulmastifs, about the enforcement of some mentality, but about the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u93	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that, almost on the anniversary of the first interpretation against Minister Katarina Kresal, it seems to me that the opponents of Madam Minister, that I do not say enemies, because what we have had the opportunity to listen to today cannot be called as hate speech, in particular some gentlemen, who unfortunately cannot be told by my colleagues, have afforded themselves so low and according to the terms that they do not really belong in this Chamber and do not belong in human communication at all. No one should tell anyone in this way about his or her character, her or his character, I must say, with such humiliating expressions. That went across every border. And I have to say again, with what my colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler said, it is also a shame that the President did not stop the gentleman at that time. But given that we are used to speaking in the National Assembly, everything that anyone wants to say, without any minimum moral restriction, but above all lies that repeat themselves a hundred times can be told, a hundred times repeated lie becomes the truth, especially because those who repeat and repeat these lies count on the sessions of the National Assembly to listen or monitor through television people who do not have all the time to watch and listen to what we say. And because they hear twice one and the same statement that someone adds to it, "it's a fact," and then it three times repeats, "it's a fact," then of course they think it's true. However, when those who repeat such facts to disability, when someone on the other side says, but the numbers you are quoting are out of date, we get new data, which are also equipped with a printing press and a letter from the competent organisation, and this is forgotten, this is not used and then even misused. When a comparison is made between two facilities, even audit and audit reports of the Court of Auditors shall be abused. I would like to recall that, in 2008, we have considered the Court of Auditors' audit report on failure or, I will say, unlawfully halted or unlawfully executed liquidation of the DSU, which is a well-known investor in the Litostroski facility, where the Court of Auditors found that the cessation of liquidation was illegal, reckless and uneconomic. That was one. Secondly, of course, this Court of Auditors could not be investigated because neither the police nor the prosecution found that the DSU was preserved in life for one reason. The fact that real estate frauds could be said to have passed the law, not transactions, past public calls, and that - for example, the last event that erupted in public, but as it all appears, the prosecution again sees no reason to investigate and investigate the matter, as it sees no reason to bring the place to trial in Intereuropa. These are so broad and deep that Intereuropa will likely soon experience a very sad fate because its debt is so great that it will have to pay its debts to banks for about 200 years, because it simply does not have enough realisation to pay for it. Who caused this and why, after two years, even the complaints filed against the responsible persons at the Intereuropa, nothing has ever happened in the prosecution? Interesting! Why, in the case of Luke Koper, where we know that there is at least 38 million damage caused by the previous leadership, along with the Supervisory Council, nothing has ever happened with regard to the responsibility of the administration and the supervisory board, but, in part, someone is awaiting the initiation of a judicial or indictory motion and indictment and a judicial proceeding - outside the port of Koper. Who's stopping all these procedures? Who's stopping the procedure or not even doing it because it's publicly announced that it's an abuse and a crime, certainly in connection with the sale of property, a camp in Adria Ankaran? Why does nothing happen in this regard? No, we today have to listen to things that turn the stomach of a normal person, about completely private things that I am not personally interested in, but we hear that how the decision to build a police building on Lithostrojski was prudent, fair, tansparent, while not a public invitation to tender at all, while the DSU was preserved precisely because the state was able to pass through public invitations to this investment, and finally the argument that the location of a police building there is not inappropriate if it is close to the gas station, comparing the proximity of this building to the gas station and at the same time the kindergarten and the school, that it does not exclude each other. That's not true! The one who sets up military or police facilities near kindergartens and schools, that man can't even think five centimeters in front of his nose because he needs to know. Go see when and where in Iraq, Afghanistan, in various other difficult situations like where terrorists go to do attacks? [[...]] Where there are police stations, where there is a state administration, where there is an army. But not close to gas stations that have nothing more challenging for them. So I think to talk about how very thoughtful this construction was - and interestingly, when we talk about that when someone mentions that there are twenty-four square meters per employee or forty-four square meters per employee in two comparable buildings, then we say, because that's not so important. How's that? A little more luxuriant. But the difference in cost to an employee who has twenty-four square meters at his disposal, or one who has forty-four square meters at his disposal, is one against or two against three. So then it's logical that the amount of 2:3 is related to the square that belongs to the individual. And I, as I recall, there is a rule in this country that determines what kind of square should be available to an employee in a state administration. I remember this because they once asked administrative units how much office space must be available for employees, that was about nine, ten years ago. When we talk about how a person meets his own standards, we need to ask why some may violate them and why others do not. Because they stick to the rules. I must say that today's debate on interpolation, in which you read the multitude of violations, the multitude of crimes, the endlessly terrible and a lot of abuse of the official position, when one goes and reads your interpretation, finds that these masses, of this terrible number, of this incredible number, unless we may stop at the eyes of a colleague I mentioned earlier that someone might be too effective, as was perhaps too effective, Minister Pogačnik, that it caused the formation of a brune in the eye of someone else, and that because of the cod in his eye he had to leave, and similarly is here. The Bruna in the eye of the opposition is so large that they do not see them, because of course they blur away the view of their own mistakes, and they need to show those who can show them these mistakes, they must quickly disable them and make them as ineffective as possible. When we constantly hear about how we deal with ourselves in this coalition, we need to know that this is a fat lie. This coalition is 90 percent of the time that it's supposed to be dealing with itself, actually dealing with what the opposition is doing systematically to obstruct the government's work, to put as many obstacles as possible and to do some kind of "balvanian revolution," if you remember what that means. For this reason, it is not possible to support such interpretations, which are intended only to ensure that the man and the organization led by that person does as much as possible obstacles and objections as possible so that they cannot all work together effectively. I must say that, after all that has been done in the interior ministry, even many savings have had much more than in many others, and at the same time, how effective the police are under the leadership of Minister Katarina Kresalova, I think it is only necessary to congratulate her and vote against the interpretation. No, not to support the interpretation, but to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u95	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. If you say, "Please," then I'll respond. Here you are, Mr. Blacky, and next time you don't talk to me like, "Hey...!"
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u96	I'll raise my hand first, Chairman. Who caused this problem, which is the basic point of interpolation?Oh, my God! Was it triggered by the opposition? Who initiated unnecessary activities by renting a building that did not need to be activated? Minister. It wasn't the opposition who started unnecessary procedures with unnecessary rent because it was necessary for a friend to find a solution to a building. This problem has been caused by the Minister, as has many other problems in the past year, which occur in the coalition, but it is not the opposition that is responsible for these problems. You are responsible for these problems yourself, and I think it would be a time for this awareness and the Prime Minister to draw the line and make a thorough reconstruction of this government, which should start dealing with this country and not with his own problems. Mrs Breda Pecan has this habit of leaving when it is necessary to hear something and learn something. I hope she hears me, even though she's not in this room anymore. It has a lot of practical experience with these calls for proposals, or more with non-sales, and by allowing land to be sold without public tender, even without evaluation, at a rather high value. It also has a lot of experience with spatial plans and how it can be explained creatively in certain areas. As a result, we should know that the Ljubljana plan sets out where something can be. The location of Litostorska is set out in a plan by the Municipality of Ljubljana. On the basis of this plan, a building permit was obtained, which is legally binding, means that the facility is situated in accordance with the Ljubljana Municipality Plan and in accordance with the destination that this plan allows. The DSU could be shut down. Yesterday you had this law about the Capital Investment Management Agency, but you didn't shut down the DSU, you put it in the agency. It is said that what some here today claim to be DSU is not problematic. All the things he provides under the law are good and these projects are good. By the way, the premises for the Ministry of Education and Sport were similarly provided. And there's no dispute. The rent is a few cents higher than it is on Dimič, but because there are no needless drawers in this square and I don't know what else that increases the volume of rent, but actually lowers the value of rent. With regard to the conduct of public tenders. This has been said many times today, it has been explained that it is a state-owned enterprise, that it is a state-owned enterprise with an investor and that it is a relationship between the Ministry of Home Affairs and the state-owned enterprise. And in these cases, the law does not govern the tender and it is not the law on public procurement in the hiring of buildings, as is the case in Litostorske. In recent days, we have heard that no project has been implemented in the entire motorway programme beyond the call for proposals. And these projects were rational, were they economical? Is something else true? Despite the so-called transparency and the call for tender, taxpayers have been injured over the past 20 years for what we know to be significant amounts. And here I think the point is that the rent is in a building called Matthew's Building, 10.16 euros in visas to this 13 and something and that it means 20 years of renting property by the state, not acquisition of ownership by a private person.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u97	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Excuse me, Mr. Saiovic. Can you please tell me who wants the replica? Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As usual, Mr Černač has very good information, just as he has good information about Minister Katarina Kresal: from what morning is for breakfast to when he goes on vacation and when he comes back. He also has this information for me: who are my relatives, when I go on vacation, what I do, what I did 95 years ago and who I was in kindergarten with when I was still living in Ljubljana. Unfortunately, there's a lot of other things he doesn't say. He doesn't say how he's a deputy in the Permanent Care of Spatial Management. How he cares about building blocks that don't even have access to the road, on the street, to them, and what he does to get these things on the market. So Breda Pecan also has some information. But there's something else I'd like to say. When we are talking about selling state property to private or public property, that we are more precise, I would like to say, with regard to Adrio Ankaran, that under the leadership of your DSU director, a company was artificially divided into several parts, transferred property to one of the companies and this company after that company was sold to a private company, a state-owned company, owned by the DSU, which operated the state property that was then in the administration of the previous government, for a tenth of the real price, Mr Chernač. But I will not tell another story because it is very interesting and I hope that the criminals directly led by Mrs Katarina Kresal will come to the bottom and that some will end up playing the piano.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u99	Mr. Chernač, would you like a word as a motioner? There's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u100	Yes, it is not a subject of interpretation, but of Mrs Brede Pecan's consistent practice to offend whenever he can. She wasn't here to hear what I was talking about. But I think it's right to say that very well concerns the Blackbells for a place in Postojna, this can be told by everyone who lives there. And in the last eight years, many young people have been given the opportunity to create appropriate living conditions, in a slightly different way, not in the way we have witnessed the NPU in this case. When the congregation was available to sell the land, it sold it in such a way that it demanded that the investor build half the dwellings for young people, at a lower price than the market price. And that's what happened. This is why she has been in Postojna in recent years about 300 new children in kindergartens. The number of places in kindergarten has doubled. But that's not the basis for interpolation, and it's better if we talk about this over coffee, not burden. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. It wasn't a replica either. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good-bye to the secretary, secretary, secretary. There are times when a person is not happy, not satisfied, not proud that he is a Member. And today, because of this, it's called interpolation, at least as far as I'm concerned, I'm sure it's a moment like this and a day like this. How far, how low we have fallen, and I am glad that the freethinkers in this country, that the Inquisition in which some could easily be found, are long gone, but its memory of the thoughts and actions of that time is still alive. Today we talked about a lot of things, about earrings, about permits, about friends, about gifts, and I don't know what else. You can imagine what it would be like to talk in Parliament about some arms dealer, Janez, if something had happened to his Urski, anything like that, and then we would have talked about it in Parliament. Of course, it must be in life that something is private, but something is a matter of the job and the public. And here you have crossed this line several times in an unacceptable, inhuman way. Each of the ministers who works hard and successfully deserves personal choice and reputation and freedom. I am pleased that the Ministry of the Interior is doing well, that security on Slovenian roads has improved significantly, and we want even less victims, less tragedies. It seems essential to me to say that the National Investigation Office is also doing well. Ladies and gentlemen who are employed there will reimburse the contribution to this building 100 times in a few years if they are unduly seized, stolen or otherwise recovered from the state budget, they will exceed the stake by a few ten times. It is also clear to everyone that they deserve normal and decent spaces. Since I'm a veterinarian after education, and I'm imagining that I really know something about dogs, all I have to say is that the imagination of some is voluptuous. The late Freud could say a lot of things about thinking and insinuations like these today. And I'm worried about what's going on behind the closed doors of some dormitory and home in this country by those who're wasting these readings. Apparently, my fantasies, not to say anything else, maybe even practice, are being shaken in some strange, inappropriate way. On the other hand, comments about what happened at this tragic event and acquaintances are so much that I am convinced that many of them were there at least witnesses, coworkers, or eyewitnesses. And because they have such a vivid fantasy, which I'm surprised and I'm afraid, he told his. Otherwise, I'll tell you from practice that the evidence was that dogs were not drugged, not sedated, and there is no hero in this hall who would be such a big dog, such breeds and such a character, hoping to clear his ears, let alone something else. There's only so much in this area. But the essence of interpolation is real estate. 85 times you see the obvious, what's supposed to happen, that there's a suspicion that there's some kind of experiment, and that's what's causing a lot of different perceptions. It's about some people setting up a mirror and then shouting out loud, "Take the thief so they won't see us or with any hand or envelope in any pocket." And this text appears 32 times on these 32-page fights. How transparent the traffic in real estate with construction business in this country has been, however, tells you the story of the octopus over the octopus you see on the display there and I show it to you here as well. But that's no indication why we suspect something happened or what might have happened. All that is written here has happened, and that is why there is documentary, material, public financial, and other evidence. One of the prominent Slovenian companies was also a strong intensive sponsor of a party and in a few years they succeeded in performing, viewers and viewers, you will not believe, for 100 million Euros of tax money transactions. And this company is not a public company, it's a company that has private owners. It was built on all ministries because they were ministers from the right party, it was built through public institutions run by the right people, and it was built in private as well as in family, personal, sister, sister and other circles. But that doesn't hurt anyone, and apparently it bothers those who now want to divert attention from the crumbs of this story. On the one hand, when we compare EUR 180 million, and on the other hand, the sum of two million that an individual is expected to have at the risk of giving up the premises, the figures in the interpellation seem to be rather irrelevant. However, I am pleased that the Ministry has submitted the business on a public invitation to tender, which was given legally, for a competitive, fair, comparable price and, in my opinion, definitely cost-effective. Of course, on this octopus, you will also see those who see less business and private connectivity of the biggest opposition party and of the Slovenian company with many connections and details. I'm sure this will be an interesting reading for many in the future. However, the story, as it seems in every fair fairy tale, has a long tradition, a long history, a connection has been forged for more than a decade, starting in 1993, when Imos, in exchange for land in the Refugee Courts, acquires the exclusive right to build Morse. Mr Janez Janša, President of the SDS Party, was, of course, a signatory to this business. The business activity between the two parties continued, but not at government level, until 2004, of course, when the elections took place, and from 2004 to 2008, intensive economic cooperation, the purchase of which ended in private accounts, was further intensified. In just four years of this mandate, 17 transactions were concluded equivalent to this, totalling more than €180 million. As we saw at the so-called Mateo Palace, the new building of the MNZ, this business was in the interest of some of the two parties involved. Of course, it was smallly carried out without a legal basis, without an invitation to tender, and this is a business that is estimated at EUR 110 million in a dizzying way. Even more interesting is that this business is only the top of the iceberg and business. All those who will, of course, read and review this octopus will see that stories are very visual, very transparent and have as we have learned in primary mathematics, at least two common nouns. One is certainly a strong political, party and other intertwine of the main players in this story. If we wanted to sell on the black screen, and of course those who think differently, we would not, then we would understand better why some companies and individuals are such strong donors, supporters of certain parties. Finally, such an interpretation gives rise to a new dimension and a new objective. The biggest opposition party once again proves its well-known course: first politically discredit and then make it impossible. You will see - now this is happening at the parliamentary level, before the autumn elections we will experience this in local environments. However, I recommend those who will try to read anything so that they will sweep hard before their threshold. There, I think a pile of insurrection in certain local environments is far the largest. However, the point is that the conclusion that we can draw from this debate is, of course, that some are more concerned about political destiny, popularity, 20-year-old power supply from the state manger than the real concern for the development and well-being of this country, citizens and citizens, because if the purpose were to be honest and fair, then today we would be talking about economic, financial, developmental issues, not political incitements and bills. The work of the Ministry of the Interior, led by Mrs Katarina Kresal, enjoys great respect and reputation in my eyes, is measurable with results, less violence, less loss of human lives, and more crime investigations. And this is more than good for the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u103	Mr. Blackach, as a motioner?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u104	Yes, I must say that I did not understand what Mr Saiovic was trying to say, I did not see any illegality, no indisputability. I was surprised, given that it was one of the major companies involved in construction in this country, that in the four years that we know that expansion was in the previous government, there was a lot of work done, there was a lot of work done, it was multi-billion-dollar business, that so little business was realized. I think that SCT, Vegrad, and so on, the various Energoplans, have probably achieved significantly higher numbers in this recent period. So it would probably be good to see this comparison, so I'm surprised by this little number. I am sure that Mr Saiovic left out a lot of business and that he did not hang everything on these slides. Well, what is essential here today is that we have no argument against the Minister of the Interior and not against the former government or against any of the former ministers, nor would we have any argument in this regard, so you did not put it in the previous term. A job like we have here today, and you won't find it. He sent the country to pay the lease to a private person through rent, so that after fifteen or twenty years, you will not find such a deal. And that's a problem that loses credibility not only for the minister but for the entire government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u105	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I'd like to say something about investigations and what criminals do when my colleague was worried that things were going as they should. I'm afraid criminals and various officials at the Ministry don't have time to investigate current cases because they're investigating those who started the clean shovel investigation, because you'll probably remember it. They're investigating former ministers, investigating brooms and stuff, and they probably don't have time to deal with the ones you listed, Luca Koper and so on. I wanted to thank the Minister for being here because she was not here half the morning when my colleagues were discussing and reading certain things to her. We might ask ourselves, ‘ What if everything is true, and when everything is true, it must be hard to listen. Some say that all questions have been answered and that this is why it is okay. I can't agree with that. If things were as clear and transparent and presented as they should, without complications or changes, we get some new information every two days, then there would be no doubt and probably no interpolation. Today, however, many things were not answered, even though the Minister initially did not use the same term as my fellow Member, she did not respond to anything in her performance. Well, in the next, a little more aggressive, a little more, but still a whole bunch of things don't. You're saying that the National Investigation Office is fine with renting a building. We have nothing against the Investigation Office, we agree that organised crime must be prosecuted and that conditions must be created for this. However, the fact that a special building has been planned and prepared since 2006 for the needs of the Ministry. A year ago, in February 2009, the minister was very happy to move into a new building with her team, into a new building in Lithostrojska. What happened next, we don't know. I would not like to be convinced again that the problem was a security assessment, because then we should already run procedures to move everyone from that environment who could potentially be threatened by the gas station. Well, this move would solve the spatial difficulties or spatial hardships of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the General Police Administration. And she was certainly working for the purpose and funds were also provided for that purpose. The decision, after someone remembers not going into this building, reminds them of a stubborn child who doesn't like one car and wants another. This is not how it works, because this matter has already taken place and at some point the country has decided on a new building and has allocated funds in budgets, as I have already said, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. In August 2010, it was planned to take over. Then someone can't get out of the cane and just because he doesn't like something at some point, and because he has that position and obviously has that power, it's a decision to make overnight. This is not how we work with our money at home, and it is even less possible to deal with the country and the taxpayer’s money. The building, located in Litostorski, was deliberately built, with anti-tap walls, bulletproof glass, heliodrome on the roof and so on. The minister here claimed that everything was in line with the law, that everything was going as it had to. I don't know if she's forgotten that the National Investigation Office started operating on January 1st. But we covered it up a few weeks later with the law. So we're legal. Therefore, to say that everything works by law and everything in accordance with legislation is somewhat ironic, given that my colleagues have already cited a similar case in relation to the appointment of the Director-General of Police. On 16 February, the Minister argued that she only knew Mr Pogačar or were connected through the Senica law firm, which represented the company in which the Director was. She then assured that the matter would begin and end there and that she had high ethical standards set and would not rent a building if she were a partner, a family member or a close friend. We know that this cooperation between Senica's law firm and Mr Pogačar has been considerable since 2001, when the law firm carried out a careful review of the SIB bank, you will recall the business in which the city municipality lost a lot of money. The review was commissioned by the Public Enterprise Energy Agency, whose procurator was Igor Pogačar. In 2009, they again participated when Mr Senica sold the apartment in Portorož to the company, not to Mr Pogacar, but to Ram Invest. Even today, Ram Invest rents premises for the needs of the District and District Court in Ljubljana. This lease has also been arranged, surprisingly, by Senica's law firm. Nor did the Ministry or the Minister answer the question why they did not decide to negotiate directly with the Hypo Alpe Adria Bank at the Ministry? Mr. Potts was explaining something. However, I would like to know whether all the other providers mentioned, i.e. seven sites visited by the Special Commission, or whether they also offered their facilities through intermediaries and what those offers were. Speaking of numbers, several colleagues have already said that it is important that not only criminal police or the new national investigation office, 300 people, or between a thousand and a thousand five hundred employees, move to the so-called Matthew Palace or facility in Litostorski. And as it is said, this would solve many of the problems the Ministry of the Interior has at this moment when it is located in different locations and pays for this high rent. In the same way, DSU is a real estate, which is why the state has such an economic company, and has also built other buildings, already mentioned for the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Maribor Court, the permanent tax office. The Court of Auditors did not have any comments on this, as it did not have any comments on Litostrojska either, which is why it is very inappropriate for you to state this, since the Court of Auditors did not say that the contract for rent is null and void, but said that the law does not give a clear answer in such a case and that the court cannot therefore be determined, which is a big difference from what the Minister claims. That it was a rescue of a friend also shows the following information. A few days ago, we had a committee or commission led by colleague Vizjak, where we discussed companies with which the country was not supposed to cooperate, and we talked about companies with a minimum rating of D, which means they have severe liquidity problems. Just a few details: By completing the works on Dimič, which we are currently hiring, the cook company has been delayed for over a year and a half. A hundred subcontractors participated in the construction and Ram Invest did not pay them for more than a half-second year. Most independent entrepreneurs and their families are therefore in trouble. Of course, we are now dealing with this with taxpayer money. I'm also wondering who was the wedding of the leasing contract of Pogačnik and how much was the deposit. Hypo Alpe Adria Bank requires a 20% deposit and a real guarantee of three times the value of the leasing object. It's not a little bit of money, I'm sure you'll agree with me. I can conclude that the Minister has made sure that the taxpayers pay off her friend's purchase of a business facility in the middle of Ljubljana and that we are again saving the company Ram Invest, which is in very poor financial condition. As it is said, at the lowest rating price D, which means severe liquidity problems. Half the problems would have been less common if things were transparent, clear, and if, as I said at the outset, we didn't get new information every two days. Things get complicated, the minister once said he knew Mr. Pogačnik. You could call that a lie. And a lie has already cost one minister of this government a fortune. Instead of clarifying and concluding things, as it must be, there are new complications, new affairs, and it is not surprising that everyone is therefore losing confidence in this government, which acts in confusion and confusion. But it saves, of course, in students, in students, in families, while there will be no problem in giving a million, up or down, to someone else to save their own business. Of course, I will vote in favour of the dismissal of Minister Kresalova and I suggest that you do the same for the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u107	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to all in attendance! How do you define yourself until you interpret yourself against Minister Katarina Kresal? As a member of the coalition, I will vote in favour of the interpolation. I will speak critically about the functioning of the rule of law, law and justice, equality between citizens, elites, networks and networks. Elite clubs. Only membership in elite clubs should not be controversial. But we can have a different relationship with them. We can look at the "high society society" with admiration, with envy as most Slovenes probably, even with contempt. I don't envy those who show up in their glory. Every man has his own fun, every man has his own performance. The problem is that the ticket to the elite club also means access to the VIP network, a network of influential and important. We are all entangled in social networks, how important they are. They connect us to a network of solidarity, a community that offers us protection and support. They are located in different areas and levels. However, all networks are not the same, although bad practices can be found in all. Even in people's simple connections, LPP networks, as I call them. Here too are examples of clientelism, privileges. I remember a warehouse in Lavrica 30 years ago. There was no cement. He made a bag for his friends, a bag for a neighbor, a bag for acquaintances, and he earned a dinar there, a dinar here. And, say, another example of human simple connections, LPP networks. The LPP driver lets his son-in-law pass the bus sensor, including his granddaughter, a high school student for personal services, drive two stations for free. Listen, it's free! And the VIP networks. There are bigger things going on here than two free tickets or two bags of cement. However, the key difference is not only in the extent of abuse. VIP networks interfere with the system institutions themselves. We are talking about systemic corruption, which is the most dangerous to society. Influent and important individuals or politicians create personal connections that interfere with the autonomy of state regulation, the autonomy of social control. Networking, contaminating decision-making centers. They contaminate institutions that should take care of the legal order in the country. Colleagues from the opposition, this began years ago when we had other ministers, another government. Elite clubs and VIP networks are party plural. Remember the Mercator stock deal, the role of Laško, Istrabenz, the change of the Department of Management, the change of management. So it didn't all start today. The Baricevic affair is also ahead of this government's mandate. Apparently, VIP networks are more stable and robust than the current government coalition. The current secretary didn't create them. I'm not talking about the investigation office building today. We cannot decide on the legality of politics, and for this there are other institutions and institutions, and I hope that they will act autonomously and impartially. What am I going to be critical of? What we haven't talked about today, or almost nothing, is very little for the minister. The fate of two citizens, Mr Meglic, Mr Baricevic. Two fates, two procedures, like we're not living in the same country. Citizen Meglitch, citizen of Baricevic. For the story of a tragic, important and influential doctor, we could also find some parallel, such as the great cult film Orson Wells, the National Kane, the story of the mighty Charles Foster Khan, a very successful man. As an important one, he built himself a media and politically influential network, and he was also a disappointed man, unique but with exactly the same desires as all men. The man who walked on the edge of existence, according to his character, Kane was like the so-called doctor of his mysterious life and took the pain with him to his grave. No less tragic than Dr Baričević's story is the fate of the citizen of Meglic. The ordinary citizen of Meglitch could be Marolt, Menart or hundreds of names from the alphabetical list. Perhaps we could find for him a more or less pretentious literary proposal, but it doesn't matter. Hundreds of parallels are found in the present, among fellow citizens who are hopelessly seeking their rights in courts before state offices. Their network does not allow it, it ensures that it will quickly come to its right. Citizen Meglič is also not a member of any elite club, an influential VIP network. In four years, he did not receive four euros in compensation. On the other hand, I don't know if I counted, from the ruling of the Administrative Court, four hours to the taking of the dog in the shelter, it was done by fax. It will be difficult to convince me that the Baricevic case and its acquisition of dogs were not about orchestrating decision-making centres. But, dear colleagues from the opposition, the orchestration began long before this government's appearance. This does not mean that this loud orchestra should not be heard and looked at, two citizens, two practices, two legal states. Marko Crnkovic is even talking about not knowing if there are two legal practices, two legal regulations, maybe there is no law. The VIP networks have therefore not been created today, they are more robust than the government coalition, and systemic corruption is more robust, and I will not vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister, but not at least because of the first interpretation, where she has demonstrated expertise, but also because of the citizens' courage on a subject that her predecessors have not been able to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u109	Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! From today's debate, in fact, I expect the National Investigation Office, given what the Minister has said here, to review Igor Pogačar. Indeed, between 20% and 30% of the investment, 20 million worth, does not know how much he invested, i.e. between 2 million and 3 million euros. Then, of course, you'll have to look at where you're coming from. Did he earn that much at the SIB's own bank? The message from today’s debate is clear: build municipal public buildings and, of course, let the congregation pay rent and you own them, and you will earn a lot more. Minister, where are the security cameras? Minister, will you have so much confidence today if the "for" interpolation voted more than "against" interpolation - will you give up? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I guess not, because some people have told me that these connections of capital-law networks are so strong that they can make you, not only make you a Slovenian for years, even [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u111	Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! I've never felt bad about this room, but I'm afraid I have to be really disgusted today. Because the level of discussion between my colleagues and my colleagues somehow led to a hot spot. And in fact, we have shown today in this debate a fundamental ignorance of the rule of law institution, which is called interpolation. And let me read again how responsible the institute is, because I can see that some people actually don't realize it. Article 118 speaks of the interpretation that "at least 10 Members may submit it to the National Assembly on the work of the government and the individual minister." And now on the consequences: "If, after a discussion on the interpretation, most Members of Parliament say they do not trust the government or the individual minister, the National Assembly will resolve the Government or the Minister." So much for how and how. I can simply say that so many disqualifications, so many bad and incredibly unrelated arguments that I have heard today, I haven't been in the National Assembly for a long time, otherwise the public can say that we're not saying what we're saying and that things are that way and that things are different. But the discreditation at the expense of Members and Members, the discreditation at the expense of the Minister, the discreditation at the expense of women when they are one for certain professions, and the other is not that one is appropriate and the ladies and the other are not. I cannot believe that I have heard this with my ears, and that a colleague who is sitting with him, often in the parliamentary benches, even in one of them, would say, a very elite committee called the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports. I cannot believe that one Member can actually start such a discredit and that this discrimination actually leads to a distinction. And this distinction is actually the first time to some paraphasic and I don't know what inclinations. By my having to say that this Minister has my confidence, despite all the doubts I may have had when reading the contracts and all the answers she has given me today, she has convinced me that the rule of law is and that some of the procedures, despite the fact that some people do not like it, need to be taken and respected. How and in what way and why it is certainly not easy. However, that we are all, especially in this country, particularly in the National Assembly, in one way or another connected and co-dependent, some colleagues and colleagues will come to know better sooner than later. That is why I believe and hope that this minister, who has been through a very hard stand by showing how she fights for human rights and how she has in one way washed the shame of Slovenia through the difficult things that we have heard from the international community, how we have violated freedom and human rights that have been erased. I think you have to have a lot of knowledge, a lot of perseverance and actually hope in the rule of law and hope that something needs to be done for it. Of course, I won't support interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u113	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. I'd like to ask the Minister from this town. Dear Minister, why do you need this? Why do you need to listen and endure this? We could cut back on the pain, and we could walk away on our own. The fact is, it's three circuits in interpolation. The first is the suspicion of political influence in the Baricevic case, the second suspicion of the abuse of the Ministry of the Interior for clientelistic purposes regarding the rental of a new building for the National and Investigation Office and the third set of suspicions of obstructing and delaying the parliamentary investigation procedure in so-called deleted cases. As far as I'm concerned, he's holding on to everything. On the first two things, perhaps a little later, and I will now touch on the beginning of the deleted area, which in the introduction received a kind of impression, as if everything was all right in this area. The fact is, we were only at the beginning of the investigation, we just got off to a good start. But the last testimonies already point to things that will lead to some end. I just don't think everything's as good as it wants to show up. Something about numbers and the fact that the Commission of Inquiry is unnecessary, as has been said today, and is pursuing political objectives. Yes, it clearly pursues political objectives as the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is based on the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public powers. If the parliamentary commission of inquiry finds violations of the law or constitution, by definition of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the political consequences shall be borne by the holder of the public function and not by witnesses, as the Minister wishes. As far as the numbers are concerned, it is not surprising that Mr former Minister Bohinc counted 18,305 deleted and Minister Kresalov 25,671, of course, the services that do so. How did this whole thing start? Minister Bohinc then said of the deleted: "The list showed or the information system showed 29.064 deleted persons." Uncertainty data were found to be 16.913 persons. He ordered a check on administrative units and found out the real situation, 18.305. He also found that 9,528 people had checked out before 26. 2. 1992 and 1,231 people checked out after 26. 2. 1992. That's how Minister Bohinc got to number 18.305. Minister Kresalov said that the information system showed 25,671 people. I have a feeling, at least that's how the last testimonies show that the data of the administrative units have been discarded, disregarded and, in fact, unverified. This is indicated in these hearings. And there is another document, a document sent by the Ministry of the Interior: "In view of the above-mentioned facts, all the administrative units should align the data from the manual records with the computer records, we took into account the data at the time of the re-analysis in 2009," now, "only from the computer records and found that this number is now 25,671." And you know what the last witness said: "I can only say that we found out in the proceedings this year or 2009 when we started that computer records don't exactly correspond to manual records, that administrative units didn't update everything, but when we did this last year, I mean, last year, we didn't know that." This is the witness’s statement that handled these matters. So what can we get out of this? If we draw the line below this, we can find that the management of the Ministry is not good at this time and that this is the subjective responsibility of the Minister, even though at the hearing she referred to her subordinates, that she believed them what they had done. But perhaps it can also come from this, which we have not yet come to, but it can be that the Minister was deceiving the National Assembly with numbers at the time of the first interpretation. We can get to that. I hope we don't, but everything seems to be getting there. So both Mrs Kresalova and Mr Bohinc insisted on their numbers and on the people who carried out the matter. The fact is, the Ministry of the Interior has this moment or, in fact, no one knows how many actual numbers have been deleted. At least that's how it comes out of all these conversations. And what can we call it? That it's non-professional work and mismanagement. Something else about the list of persons who had contracts with the Ministry of the Interior to issue supplementary decisions. This was also said for this speaker today. But the fact is, the minister obstructed the parliamentary investigation procedure. She did not wish to submit a list of persons who had issued contracts and issued supplementary decisions. The Administrative Court once found and ruled that this information was of a public nature. It was a newspaper house in the evening. And what did we do when we didn't get this list? Of course, we used the court. And from the Court’s reply, or from the judgment, it follows that we have filed a seizure of the list of public servants, etc., the investigating judge has requested a supplement because it has not been clear what will be proved by the subject matter of the investigation, etc. The Commission or my professional services have found that this is actually a different interpretation of Article 13 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, namely two entries in the article. One is an appropriate requirement by justification, one is a sentence and the other is a sentence that the requested court is not entitled to assess the scope of the measure. So this is a different interpretation and it is not a substantive refusal to obtain this list, but a procedural one. And the Commission of Inquiry will re-apply to obtain this list, because we think we should get it. This is about the deleted and the proceedings in court. The fact is that it was rejected for procedural reasons, not for content. Now a few more words about renting a new building for the NPU. Look, if it's a business between two private entities, it's still kind of normal. Here, unfortunately, the state is in the middle of it, which is why I am rightly asked the question of how to deal with tax money. So I'm legitimately wondering why you, Minister, rented these premises and who all benefited from it. These transactions are clearly created through friendly ties between entrepreneurs and politicians, and some are believed to be serving or serving in a taxpayer’s account. I am sure that this was a friendly matter, although at the outset, the Minister claimed that he did not actually know Mr Pogačar. Of course, the issue is to show as well as she claims and advocates today, but in my opinion it is evident from the plane that it is a political lumbarity. From the point of view of ethics and society, it's an act, at least for me, that's fucked up. And again, Madam Minister, why do you need this?Oh, my God! Despite the arguments raised here today at the meeting, at least for me, at least, as far as I'm concerned, things are clear. I will now say something, despite the fact that we are politically competitive. I appreciate the move of the Social Democrats, who cleaned up the Bulmastifs before their threshold, and Mr Pogačnik stepped down. Similarly, DeSUS, for a much smaller matter, if we remember why Minister Erjavec resigned, he had to resign. In both cases, Minister Kresalov was very critical, very critical and considered this to be the right decision. But here all four of them are resisting and claiming something that's visible from everywhere, what's actually going on. So, Minister, I'd expect you to stop insisting and defend a decision that means a lot of damage to taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u115	Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u116	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, fellow Members, fellow Members. Today, there have been repeated debates, not a little, as some Members or Members of Parliament say, but a lot of lies. There have been many misleading, cheap populism, demagogies and senseless and hurtful attempts to discredit both the Minister of the Interior and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. When you run out of arguments, you reach out on your favorite topic - your credit for the creation of a single country, about an aggressor, about your relationship with your country. But everyone else, as has been said, not only today, but also at the first interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, we were playing in the sandbox or hiding and sewing white sheets together. I guarantee it's a big lie, too. I myself have the status of not only veteran war for Slovenia, but I am also a member of the Manevre structure of National Protection, as well as many of my friends, party colleagues, who we have gladly helped on our way to Slovenia. At that time of fate for Slovenia I was a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we were called slightly different, and I am proud to say that I am still today. Who has more or less credit for the independence of our beautiful country, to be judged by others, not politicians. As for the interpretation itself against Minister Kresalovo, I believe this interpretation is a valuable collection of political points. Therefore, my support for your conduct, which undermines the rule of law, has not been given to you at the time of the first interpretation, you do not have it now and you will not have it in the future. One of the main points of view to Minister Kresalov is the political influence of the minister on the work of the police. It's just the opposite process. These statements are made by those who have subordinated the work of the police in the previous term. If we look only at the appointment of the Director-General of the Slovenian Police, I think that by amending the law, the Police Act, this story has been brought to an end by the influence of the policy on the appointment of the Director-General of Police. I think all these attacks are also coming because the police have shown themselves to be extremely effective in this mandate, more crimes have been investigated than they have been in previous years, and I believe that the establishment of a national investigative body will also increase this efficiency and confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law. As for the Baricevic affair, which is not an affair for me, but a tragedy, this affair should never have happened. I'm just wondering when the ominous procedure for returning dogs will be completed for the owners, which, according to the D.A.'s guidelines, is going to be led by the police, what will you then say? I want to know what happened between 2005 and 2008. What ministers in the previous government have abandoned their duty to avoid this tragedy at all? I'm interested in your answer then. Now, let me finish. Respect for the rule of law, human rights and decisions of the Constitutional Court - this is what this government does, and that is what Interior Minister Katarina Kresal does. You don't like this road, you walk on the legal trail hard, you'd rather take a fast drive over and you've never liked it. I believe that Members will consider deciding on this interpretation and that we will not support interpretations against the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u117	The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, we have heard that some in their dreams would not support this interpretation. Of course, it must be said that some here do not even dream because they dream of being far away. It wouldn't be a waste of time. It is worrying that the latest developments in Slovenia show how we have created a real estate elite and an elite of construction and road barons in Slovenia. This category could be classified in the so-called fifth branch of power, in addition to the three classic ones we know. The media and journalists are classified in the fourth branch of government, and the fifth branch of government could be the structure of networks that regulate things from the background that are very strong, very influential, have capital, but there is no control over them, there is no control. They create such a media field, media policy, media and in their own way also influence the enforcement, not to say legislatively, the judiciary. True, at times this network, this fifth branch of government also grows over its head. I am not going to talk about Mr Pogačar and Ram Invest myself, because there has been a great deal of talk about this today. However, I think that renting premises for the Republic of Slovenia is too expensive, too expensive. We have to ask ourselves why the country prefers to rent these premises than to buy them. Apparently, there are some dedicated people out there who get fat with these rents. There are some cases to be said here. The minister, Mrs. Kresalova, initially said [[Quote]] "The law and the facts are on my side. What's the issue? That we rented the building from a private? This cannot be disputed, however, because we have 171 private leases made by the ministries and the amount of rent is EUR 33 million per year." That's interesting information. For last year I asked Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs a question. One was: "How many empty spaces owned by the country is this time in the Republic of Slovenia?" And the answer: "According to the data obtained by the Ministry, the bodies in the composition and the government services, they have business premises at 36 locations which are currently unoccupied." So, the state has unoccupied premises today. And then the question is, "How many places does the state rent and how much money does it pay for rent a month?" Reply from Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs: "The Ministry of Public Administration collected data on rental contracts in June 2009 at ministries, bodies in the composition and government services. According to the data collected, 350 contracts have been concluded for the rental of premises. According to individual authorities, the financial consequences of renting business premises in June 2009 amounted to EUR 2 million per month, says 24 million per year." What's the difference? What's the right information? Is Mrs. Katarina Kresal or Irma Pavlinič Krebs the correct information? And where does this increase in rent, from 24 million euros a year to 33 million euros in less concluded contracts, say less rent, more rent? I hope that the experts, colleagues of the Minister, will convey this question to her and that we will also get an answer to this question. Another issue concerning real estate is the rental of premises by the anti-corruption commission. We have heard that the anti-corruption commission will review, also investigate the so-called Slovenian FBI, what happened at these rental premises with Ram Invest, but there is some pversion by the anti-corruption commission. See, this commission will review the work of the Ministry of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, which has rented a space of 13.3 euros per square meter and the anti-corruption commission has rented a space of 56 euros per square metre in Vienna. Who will investigate the anti-corruption commission? For once more! And the commission pays 30,000 euros per month plus 7,000 different costs, the manager, the cleaners and God knows more. This is 444,000 euros a year and - again in rent! What could we get for this money if we took a lease or simply bought some space in Ljubljana. Minister Krebsova, in one of the national broadcasts, in Tarča, where we were both guests, said that the anti-corruption commission was a self-sustaining body that sought out the premises itself and added that at its Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Public Administration, they had drawn up the framework for renting the premises of the public authorities and had also assessed the anti-corruption commission's contract as irrational. I think that's a good, correct conclusion. But Drago Kos said these days that he also has a meeting room in these large and expensive premises, which is also used by the Ministry of Public Administration for the purposes of education. So, the Ministry of Public Administration and this commission work hand in hand. In short, such expensive rentals are certainly irrational. Mr Žnidaršič spoke earlier about Brussels, about the Slovenian premises in Brussels, if the rentals are very expensive there. Yeah, they were expensive. The State of Slovenia has purchased nine properties in recent years, owned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And what you mentioned, colleague Žnidaršič, business premises in Brussels for permanent representation, surface 3170 square metres, the state of Slovenia bought these premises for EUR 6 million in 2005. So 2,000 euros per square meter. The Permanent Representation, a residence in Brussels, bought out 600 square metres by the State for 1.6 million euros. So, for a year's rent, Slovenia bought out the premises in Brussels. Not to talk about a permanent mission in New York. In 1995, we bought off East End Avenue 320 square meters 1.1 million euros. And we could list it. There are some other cases like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u119	Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So Slovenia has been quite busy in the last three months, mainly with two events. And that residents, Slovenes and Slovenians, are interested in or interested in these events, of course they are not alone, but those who produced such events are guilty, or those who are "holding the booth" in the whole matter that people could not get information so that they could not figure out what was actually happening, because it was events that had and would have consequences for even further. Here I am thinking mainly of the event in the so-called Baricevic garage, where, unfortunately, life has also been extinguished, and the events related to the National Investigation Office, where some want no clearance to occur, so that they do not know what was going on. Therefore, police from some media also want information that is advertised on their websites, as if they wanted to keep quiet so that it would not be known, because some media apparently have a media prison and should not report it, but thank God, we are living in a time when the Internet is the kind of medium that is so unblockable. And people are interested in it, and I can tell you that when we talked so much about dreams, most Slovenes had no idea that something like this was possible in the garage; that such moral depravity was even possible. Probably no one, or very few people, ever dreamed that it would be possible for something like this to happen to a national investigative authority renting this space. And people also come up on websites, they write their opinions on websites. I also sometimes read what people think about it, and because most, the trend is going in some direction, so I decided to read it to you, which is direct from the web, because the one who wrote it really concentrated it all very briefly. So I quote, it was written early in the morning: "On the one hand we have a financial institution that has the money of Hypo Leasing to finance the project, and on the other hand an intermediary who has nothing but a friendly relationship with the minister, and then a country that can pay the financial investor. In addition to Hypo Leasing, an intermediary, a client, a friend who, without his own capital, manages a game or enters a game with political capital that turns him into real capital, will all be paid by the state, read by taxpayers who will not have any of it, except for the extremely expensive rental of business premises. The biggest profit will be an intermediary in the business, although he did not invest anything in this business, so to speak, that he will become the owner of the glass palace without his own cartridge. If this is what Katarina Kresal sells as a legal state, then it is possible to say only: No, thank you, this is not a legal state! It's basically a state of law. It appears that Katarina Kresal is imagining the rule of law by abuse of the authority for private interests, so that it all turns into legal form and regardless of the scandalous content it is supposed to be a legal state. The right thing is right, not just a legal form that can hide very controversial content. And I only read what is written--'And Kresalkin's business with a glass palace smells like heaven, even though it may have been carried out legally correctly, the minister should care for the public benefit, not for the benefit of the private. Business premises for the Ministry could be significantly cheaper if we purchased land, and the cheapest construction site would build the necessary palace, which would be owned by the state. The state could itself rent a loan to any bank, without an unnecessary intermediary, and the palace would not only be cheaper, but would also be its property." And then again, "Yes, this is the biggest package, I'm going to the bank, I'm taking credit for buying apartments, I'm renting the apartment, and the tenant is paying off my debt, plus a little bit more that I don't have to work. It's a simple story of a building on Dimicheva. Legally correct, but corrupt, depraved. Those who will support Katarina Kresal will make it clear what their attitude to morality is to govern and run the country." This is copied from the Internet, one of the web portals. And that's not the only way to think about it, it's a lot of thinking. It all kind of concentrates on that content. And to this, because this is huge, we could call the voice of the people, which shows that the people understood this work, so that you could become the owner of the building with nothing, and you have profit. Here we can ask ourselves if the President of the Government is aware of this. Today, he said the minister convinced him when she told him that she had changed her mind seven times before she decided to do the job. Of course, I believe the Prime Minister has told him that she has changed her mind seven times, but we have to ask ourselves whether the President of the Government should think seven times before he believed that he had accepted her thinking and her belief that the matter was a good one. I think the Prime Minister should think about it seven times. The voice of the people is so that people don't just believe, blindly. I guess people thought about it seven times before they wrote what I read to you earlier. And because everything goes, all the content of most people who come out, and there's more and more, it goes this way, it's said that we don't just believe it, blindly. The Prime Minister went down on a very slippery floor, if he could be sure. Those who merely allow themselves to present the figures concerning the National Investigation Office regarding the lease of this building must find out or make sure that something is seriously wrong. That if you don't have anything, and after 20 years, you become the owner of a 20 million-euro building, and you still get half a million euros every year, there's something that can't count. There's something really wrong here. It can only be magic, alchemy, or if you think of yourself as a friend, as someone wrote on the web portal, the Minister of the Interior in this government. This magic is also known by those Slovenians who have lost their jobs, who are out of work, of which there are 100,000. And these 100,000 people would be much less satisfied, not with half a million euros a year, but would be willing to work hard for 500 euros a month. That's less than 10,000 euros a year, that's 50 times less than Ram Invest and his director, because he just signed such a contract. They'd be willing to work hard, but, unfortunately, they can't make it happen. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Last but not least, I remember what happened three months ago when Minister Erjavac was suspended for two or three months. However, he was suspended because an authority wrote that he was doing his job anonymously. We don't know that now. That's what the Secretary of State said, "he's been suspended for garbage cans." Okay, we can say anything, but there was no camping, no clienteleistic contracts proved to him, no bribes, no millions, no profits, nothing like that. But he had to leave, and the suspension was supported by ministers, including the one we are talking about today. Today, we are talking about huge millions for a friend, to obstruct an investigation that has swept all over Slovenia, here I am thinking about the events concerning Baricevic. This is what the whole of Europe is talking about, the most important newspapers report on it. Slovenian citizens abroad wonder what is going on. Even more, we would like to exclude those who are supposed to investigate the matter - I mean the Attorney General. And it's likely that the U.S. Attorney's office will turn around. Ordinary citizens simply cannot believe that anything like this can happen. And this will certainly have consequences for the further development of Slovenia. On the other hand, information is leaking, eavesdropping on a large scale, investigating brooms and non-existent protections at certain private events and so on. Can we ask ourselves what's going to happen? Really, what's gonna happen? The worst thing about the whole thing is that this kind of behavior is being protected - in Styria we say "hold on to the string" - and that such behavior becomes even normal and promoted as a normal way of working. They say he made it, but unfortunately that's not working. That's not how it goes. It's probably not normal to act in a garage either, it's not normal, but it wants to hide itself, "cover up" so that everything that needs to be discovered and what citizens also want to get answers to, and that's why they're so massively advertised on web portals. Here I could say that the voice of the people is clear. You can see that on these web portals. The voice of the people is clear, they want answers and they do not support them. Most Slovenes don't even understand that something like this is even possible, but what has happened is neither the media nor the web portals reporting it, but those who have committed it and those who are "holding the stand" at these events. Since the voice of the people is clear, I will support this interpretation, especially because I want some things to be cleared up and made clear, then it would be peace forever, so that we don't keep repeating ourselves and ask questions about some things that aren't cleared up. I will vote in favour of interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u121	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. I regret, however, that the Minister is not here, but I hope that she will accompany the meeting, because I would like to propose directly to her or ask her to resign. It is true that he resigns to save himself the great embarrassment of saving the ministerial assembly, especially you, the coalition. You're very embarrassed, in large, and I believe that you're having a hard time preparing the arguments that you want to defend it with, but these arguments, unfortunately, do not drink water. Madam Minister, if you resign, you will not be on the road as many as 100,000 Slovenians and Slovenians, because you are more than that, at least you have one. You are in that elite that obviously leads Slovenia in a completely different way. You're very nervous, especially the coalition debaters. You're trying to discredit the writers of interpolation with discreditation, with some untruths, stating that nothing is concrete, that they're just some flossules. Are the facts in there for you flossules? The facts that we have gathered from the media by documents that are publicly available - are these for you floscules? Madam Minister also stated in her explanation that we were not telling the truth, that we were lying, that she was also very nervous, that she was attacking opposition Members with matters that had nothing to do with the interpretation. This is a sign that she is truly, truly in a great crisis alone, because she is aware that her work, her conduct in the past, has been evident in violation of legislation, corruption and clientism. And that's why she was nervous. Madam Minister says the vets found out it wasn't about dog abuse. She's deceiving the public, she's deceiving us. We could watch the original veterinary reports online, where it was clearly stated that dogs were abused. Not to mention in any way, but on this, I think every Slovenian and every Slovenian woman has already stopped the judgment herself. He says it doesn't affect the police. See, the choice of the Director-General and all the adjustments to the legislation that is then also legal coverage, which is its style of action; with legal, legal tricks the matter is somehow covered and in public to show how it works in accordance with the legislation. Even if the legislation is passed back! Madam Minister boasts here how she cares for the police, that she has contributed to the acquisition of protective equipment, jackets Right, they need this! [[...]] But why did she buy this? Because of her propensity for pressure from the public because she wanted to buy a water cannon that she would use against the crowds for five hundred thousand euros. And here was the reason she was only so smart that she thought it was foolish, and she preferred to use that money for police equipment. I think that's right, too. It mentions the founding dispatch; it also refers here to the affair back, the affair of the century of Patria, which we know was created. We know how it came about! And the dispatcher was part of this script. The official who deliberately hid the dispatch, on purpose, which you then used as an argument, was, of course, now rewarded to return to the same job from which he was relieved of knowing that this dispatch was "slightly" - in quotations or we can be sure, knowingly hid it. Then, Madam Minister, as well as colleagues from the LDS, you are grateful for the contribution made by the Minister to road safety. It's not good to brag about other people's feathers. To warn you or to get to know you, for those who have a short memory, in 2007 two hundred and thirty-three road users died on Slovenian roads in Slovenia. In 2008, in March, we adopted the Road Safety Act, which has really exacerbated all those who commit offences. And as a result of this law it felt in 2008, the number of deaths fell to 212. But, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues from LDS, you voted against this law by everyone in the LDS! I've got a print right here. You all voted against it. You all voted against it. You all objected, but now you are bragging about how you contributed to the fact that we have so many fewer victims. There's still too many of them to work on, but don't brag about the feathers of others. The Baricevic affair, a great tragedy, I don't want to discuss this much. Unfortunately, she brought about the loss of a respected doctor, an expert, and I wouldn't want to argue about it. But it brought even more Slovenians and Slovenes: the discovery that the legal state does not apply to all the same in Slovenia. We have an elite to which the Minister herself certainly belongs, and those who must respect the law and everything that brings about the rule of law. The elite is subject to everything, they are allowed everything, of course not to the others. And as I mentioned, on the basis of the legal tricks that Mrs Minister certainly knows, along with all her close associates, the judges - they have also contributed a great deal to this affair going on as it does. And there's a lot of doubt in the courts you like to refer to. How can people put their trust in the court if the brother of Judge Zalar writes such a judgment that is contrary to the law! Everything is hidden under the independence of the courts. With legal tricks, as I said, there are injustices on the shoulders of ordinary citizens to those who have been wronged by the system. How many years has gone by since Mr. Neglich had justice with the windmills on the wind for compensation for the injuries that these dogs have caused him. With all the legal tricks, the executive opinions, he's getting rid of the octopus, and he's probably not going to have a good time yet. That all is permitted to do so, however, this case on Dimich. If at the time of writing the interpolation had all this information available yesterday, the day before yesterday, there would have been a number of indications in this interpolation and even more argumentative. However, I ask you whether any citizen and citizen in Slovenia would have such conditions, so that with such ratings as this company has - we know that it has the worst ratings - it will get so much credit that it can invest in such a building for which the state will buy it - see, the country will buy it for him, so that Mr Pogačar will cash very well every month. And that's 20 years! Don't talk after 20 years when he pays off those loans. For what it's worth, believe me, you don't have to be too smart, you just have to have relationships, be a member of this elite, and you can do it, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of people don't. Madam Minister says that the law allows her to purchase and rent spaces - I agree with that, but for the sake of the ministry. However, the law does not allow her to buy a building at the expense of taxpayers to someone else, Mr Pogačar, her personal friend, at least by showing pictures that are available to the public. She says that there were seven offers and that she gathered the most agreeable, seven times she thought about it. Seven is a fairy tale number, but I don't believe in these fairy tales. And I believe there were seven offers. But did the Minister hear, just in those days, that there is a cartel deal in Slovenia? I don't think that was the case here either. A cartel deal! And, of course, the one for whom it was pre-arranged was chosen. And from this also the information that the investor had previously mounted bulletproof glass on this building rather than was chosen. Such evidence really shows that the Minister does not really deserve to play this role, is embarrassing to the Slovenian government, indeed, to this ministry. This is also indicated by the survey: 72% of police officers do not support it and a large number of citizens do not. That is why I will support, but even better it would be to give up and save yourself and other sufferings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u123	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The former government, the government of Janez Janša, has launched 200 million valuable investments in the public administration premises, past the state budget, past the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly on 27 November 2007, I asked within the framework of the 2008 budget rebalancing point, which was also the period when we talked about the 2009 budget, whether it was true that the government would start building eight palaces worth around 200 million euros in the coming years with extra-budgetary funds. Lands and some buildings are already being purchased for the Court Palace for the Ministry of Education, for the General Police Administration, for the Ministry of the Interior, for the Ministry of Environment and Space, for the Ministry of Agriculture, for the Ministry of Labour and for the Ministry of Health. That's when I asked Prime Minister Janez Janša, then Secretary-General, all the competent ministers to answer that question. None of them opened their mouths, they were silent, because one major project was launched past the National Assembly and past the state budget and not at this meeting and not the next day no one denied this data. So I would ask my respectable colleagues on the other side to clear the threshold first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u125	Mr. Milenko Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u126	Well, when you do, I'll start talking to you myself. Thank you for letting me take the floor, my well-respected colleagues. I know, Mr President, that you have nothing to do with this, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the sufferers, ministers and secretaries of state, who must be seated at this hour because of this unpleasant matter. Now, here's something about the Minister's interpretation. Madam Minister belongs to that round of state officials who write their own interpretation material, because from the day of the investment and until today only added material, so that opposition parties, i.e. the applicants, did not have to make a special effort to obtain material. And therefore, given that the voting machine will allow it to remain in position, we can only guess, there is no need to be a prophet, so that probably sooner than in a year there will be enough material for a new third interpolation. For, as I said, the Minister's reasons and reasons for the interpretation are written by herself. One of the votes concerning the attitude towards the Minister has already been announced today. In fact, a poll among police officers found that 75% of the people do not support it. Well, they're dissatisfied with her work. I think we can believe this information, because if everyone was satisfied, then they wouldn't incriminate their boss or give the public information about her wild rides on the highway. Now, let's talk about this. The first information that came to the public was that the speed was measured by a speed of 200 km/h. As a result, considering 14 km/h of tolerance, the police officer has to stop you, you immediately, on the spot, ban the driving, take a driving licence for 1 to 6 months and punish you with 9 penalty points. Later this was changed to 166 km/h. At this rate, I think that the tolerance is 7 km/h and is therefore a penalty rate of 159 km/h, which is 29 km over the prescribed speed, which follows: three points of 125 euros in eight days or 250 euros in a longer period. So something you don't have to be too upset about. After what we found in the media. The driver was punished for his impertinent driving because of his monitoring, escape and then stopped by a vehicle with a blue light-vehicle, which was the vehicle radar of a see-through - 50 kilometres away. And if the minister says what else we can believe she didn't detect too much speed, she was probably sunk into work, but she certainly had to detect the blue light and that famous voice of the siren tracking vehicle. So since she is the one who can change or give a certain order to stop such a ride, she is, of course, not only in secret, but even guilty. There was a lot of talk today about the Baricevic affair. With a debt of five to the deceased, we are precisely due to five to the death, and due to procedures, legal procedures, investigative procedures, we are obliged to examine, for the sake of death, all procedures that have been carried out at least minimally. In this week alone, I witnessed a minor or one of these normal traffic accidents in Jeprca. What I saw was the official vehicle of the investigating judge. The investigating judge will come if the police call him. However, if the police had previously seen a known person at the scene of a tragedy because of my unknown causes, but had previously called the Minister and then lost 5.6 hours, then all those who had justifiablely found themselves at the scene of the investigation could be so much more reasonable as to be in charge of the procedure. Especially since the sister of the deceased first spoke of the suspicion of murder and for a long time there was talk about a third party. The suspicion of murder may be based on the fact that the Mglech attacked survived 50 severe wounds years ago and that Mr Baričevič did not survive the attacks of the same dogs. In addition, at the beginning of the tragic event, it was said that a police officer had been injured and that the police were seeking psychiatric help because they had been moved to what was happening there. We certainly can't get past the autopsy results, where it was first said that dogs were drugged, drowsy, euthanized, and each dog had at least a few gunshot wounds in the autopsy results. Of course, with the results of the autopsy, it will be obvious that everyone had a damaged intestine, more wounds on the intestine, last part of the intestine, and we can reasonably assume that this is not a result of being fed, that it is not the result of Pedigree Pala and Eukanube do not know what kind of dog food, but that it is probably the result of some possible abuses. Now, what have some famous Slovenians said about this matter? I think that Mr Niko Kavčič has taken the very right attitude towards the problem, which, despite his reverent 94 years and, to the extent that we have been able to convince ourselves on television, is highly documented and full of competence, Mr Slavko Ziherl and Jelko Kacin have been annulled. First of all, Ziherl had a little too much to afford because he had set up or abused his position and justified Mr Kavčič's statements as some kind of analysis. Mr Zicherl - it happens to be written in the same way as myself, I think that we are even in a distant relation - has also allowed this matter to be published by Mrs Rotar that she is incompetent for the court, of course, to get the dogs back and certainly capable of doing so. So again, a whole bunch of inconsistencies and contradictory decisions. After interpolation, we have experienced reports of wiretaps more and more. He suspects it may have even been eavesdropped on by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. If they listen to me, I do not worry too much, but I have noticed that they are listening to Mr Bohorič, Kordez and Zdoljsk, but not in terms of securing some legal processes in the context of the transfer of ownership, but mainly in protecting the interests of the circles around the LDS. Moreover, he also listens to Mr. Jakomin, and I wonder how his boss, Mr. Vlačič, will react. Finally, I would like to say that Mrs Minister somehow wanted to compare herself with Agatha from the High Chronicle today. Since I come from places where our writer and author of the High Chronicle lived, I wonder who this Yuri is who will take Agatha across the water and prove her innocence. Jurij is, of course, the prime minister, who is inadvertently offering support, after all the blackmails he has achieved, but precisely because of this reckless support, he is in danger of becoming Jurček from Jurija, the Jurček of Andersen's fairytale. The voting machine will certainly keep it in the same position today, and we will repeat our homework in one year. I don't need to be a prophet. I don't need to look into coffee. I think there's going to be enough material for another interpolation - right now because of her behavior, her action. The voting machine will therefore retain it - what about the public opinion? What about all the people who are disturbed by all the things we've discussed today? I did not deliberately engage in renting premises for the National Investigation Office because my colleagues have already made them more public and processed them. What will the people say about this, and we will see, if not earlier, in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u127	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am afraid or I hope to say that I firmly believe that we have achieved nothing with the debate, almost ten hours' notice. You, too, respected colleagues of the coalition, who think you have achieved a significant victory, have not achieved it. At that time, we have shown that we do not know each other, that we do not hear each other, that arguments do not matter to us, that we repeat every claim we have formed as a firm belief, and that we share each other. I am firmly convinced that the questions we have discussed today can also be raised in a reasoned but justifiable manner and that at least on some points we should acknowledge that your demands and your explanations are incorrect, that they are fabricated, that they are based on suspicions that you are not able to prove. You can't prove it! You will have another half hour and you will be able to repeat everything you have said so far, and you have the impression that this has proved the accuracy of your allegations. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you, too, Mr Gorenak, are looking so curiously at my mouth. Yes, I'm sure you, too, with your claims, have failed to prove anything. This is because if we want to do a fair analysis of the conduct, then we should ensure that the Court of Auditors reviews the method of implementation or conclusion of contracts for the rental of all business premises for all ministries, in order to look at the quality of having to see whether any other solutions are possible. What you're saying is that the rental of one business space was bad because it wasn't either a lease contract or a purchase contract, of course, is a possible claim, but a claim that was not compared to anything and with nothing proven and only shows that you have a desire because it doesn't correspond to you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u129	Dr. Gorenak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Of course, Mr. Potts, I always listen to you very seriously. But it's because I respect you and because I value you in my own way because of some principle. But now I've made myself a pen to write down what you're going to say. All you said was that you disagree with me, that you disagree with my numbers, but you didn't tell me your numbers. That's the problem. And maybe you can answer me if the Minister doesn't want to, then in response, when we have a vote, why the state is paying 136,000 euros and Mr Pogačar is paying 125,000; and why he puts 11,000 in his pocket every month. Just explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm in charge of the session. I don't have time to answer, maybe on another occasion. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. I am also sure that today's debate will not help to solve the problems we have presented today, but it will certainly make a major, very significant contribution to reducing the reputation of this Parliament, reducing the reputation of Members, Members of Parliament, the profession of politics, because as much as today's accusations of mutuality, so many sharp words, so many disqualifications, personal and institutions, certainly does not help solve problems. What is the saddest or the most worrying - and obviously some do not realize it or perhaps do it knowingly - is that this way of speaking from this place, from this temple of democracy, is unfortunately transmitted to the field and poisons relations between people in this beautiful Slovenia. And probably it would be good - those of you who are too warm - to go between normal people and make sure of it. And that for such a situation and such today's debate that it is at all, both the opposition and the coalition are to blame. The opposition in that part, which I believe is abusing the institutions that each opposition has in democracy, are extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, extraordinary meetings of committees, interpretations, constitutional accusations and so on. If we look at the fact that we had 21 extraordinary meetings during this period and 264 extraordinary meetings of the committees at 16 regular meetings of the National Assembly, we can calculate how many ministers, state secretaries, employees of ministries have survived in Parliament or at working meetings, listen to such and different debates, instead of being in a government palace or on the ground and preparing the necessary measures and laws. In part, today’s interpretation of this abuse is reflected in one part written in such a way that many may be ashamed of it. In view of the abuse, it was also very clear that the constitutional charges against the President of the State, Mr Daniel Türk, who was so ill-prepared, were a real legal victory, and without any theoretical possibility of success, the opposition probably submitted it with only one objective: the discreditation of the President. This public discredit was also demonstrated in such a way that they did not even stand up when the President entered the Chamber of Parliament. And in today's debate, when the Minister started her speech, it became very soon clear that we are not talking about individual specific cases, but rather about proving who made less mistakes and who made a worse move: whether former Minister Mate near Litostorski or Mrs Kresalova near Dimičev. Such an accusation, in which today there was so much competition and mutual accusation, I am sure that people, ordinary people, will understand and hear, as in that famous story, when communists and fascists measured themselves from hill to hill, and in the meantime it reflected "the same, same". I'm sure that's not good. Both the interpolation charges and the answers help to ensure that there is no solution today. In the part where, in the explanation of the interpelling motions, colleague Irgle said that a number of members of the coalition would sign under interpolation, so that they could speak in the National Assembly, I would turn; on the contrary, I would say that they would probably not have signed a number of members of the opposition if there were no such command as was known in the opposition. That's how you talk in the National Assembly. Simply because interpellation on the subject of the terrible personal tragedy of the late Baričević, to discuss in a manner like that of individual Members, is extremely unethical, immoral, inhuman. Also, the media, which had drawn and inspired this terrible story for months, probably had some sort of discarded action that did not contribute to any solution or clarification, but had completely different goals. That's why I won't touch this work myself. Nor is it because I am convinced and believe in the expertise, professionalism and competence of the police, that they have acted in accordance with their rules and principles and that the police are certainly not politically guided as they wish to show themselves. In the part where there is talk about the facility for the National Investigation Office, however, much is open and will probably remain much open after this meeting. The very process of preparing the response - I speak, of course, on my behalf, that too much time was needed to make certain facts known that certain contracts had been made manifest. And all of this raised some doubts, some mistrust, which culminates in every document brought by Mrs Minister or representative of Ram. Personally, I am sure that it will not be a good message if it remains unanswered and this deal is dealt with as closely as the Minister has said in her reply. I am also sure that this business is legally "sit down", as I am sure that, in addition to the legal standards in Slovenia, different standards, broader standards should and should also apply. And from this point of view, it is also good to look at this business in order to further clarify it. The right and the right are, as is known, many times very different concepts and it is difficult to understand that such a model will somehow be confirmed as appropriate, because in this part it can be a great mistrust to Slovenian mayors and all those who work with the taxpayer's money, how an intermediary can also be provided and done differently than usual and as is right. That's why I miss those conclusions in this part. The only bright and good thing I see in today's debate, however, is the information that has probably already ringed with the Prime Minister that 171 leases are, that 38 million rents per year, and everyone can calculate, at least likely those who are mayors, this is a different view of how many kindergartens there are, how many roads there are, how many roads from the state budget are flowing into private pockets each year. And here it is necessary to ask how this country is managed in this real estate work, when each minister can look for places for himself, and that it would probably be good to review these concluded contracts on the basis of this case, to find that the times since they were concluded have changed considerably, that the rent in the capital was also artificially raised at high prices, and that these are moves that probably urgently await the Prime Minister to initiate these procedures. I am convinced that, as is the number of ministries for such a large number of business spaces, that each minister probably takes a very long time or does not see in the entire mandate all the premises or all the locations, that it is possible in this crisis to blow up, whether it takes so many people in all ministries, and that in this spirit of discussion this rationalisation is likely to be good, that tax money can be dealt with differently and that this property, with the lease contracts, would be dealt with by the relevant institution, not by each minister individually. Thus, in today's vote alone, I will not support the interpretation that has been tabled, because of the extremely inappropriate work that is linked to the Baricevic case. In the second part of the case - the construction of the facility on Dimičeva - I am sure that we will have more detailed information from Members and Members, and in particular the evaluation of professional institutions such as the Court of Auditors and the Commission, and that it will probably be easier to discuss, until then, that remains as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. There are a lot of you here, and I hope you can answer a lot of things. For an introduction, I would first like to read what the Liberal Democracy programme says in the High Level of Security in a unstable environment. It says: "The capital of action is the fight against corruption, customerism, crime of all kinds and abuse." This also briefly summed up the slogan, which was said to him: "The right path is the right path." Yesterday or the day before, when Minister Zalar answered his colleague Puksic's question, he said: "All state authorities are obliged to respect and apply both the Constitution and the laws relating to each area; also the Government, including the Minister-General, as well as the Attorney-General. There's no difference between us. The problem arises when we come into a situation where someone should be subject to the rules laid down by the National Assembly - either in the highest act, it is in the constitution, or in the laws - that does not apply to all and does not apply to all the same. This problem is particularly exacerbated when a situation is established that rules are not applied equally to public officials. There can't be irresponsible officials in this country, there can't be, there won't be. All of us who work, regardless of our functions, are bound by certain regulations to respect the Constitution and the law. Any of us who commits an offence must be held accountable for it. No one in this country may be irresponsible for his actions or for his resignations." So Minister Zalar, who sits at the back of the Minister of the Interior, his colleagues, client colleague Katarina Kresal. I would also like to remind you of the statement made by the Prime Minister of the Government to my fellow Member, Andrei Visiak, in response to the question at this same meeting, when he asked him about these cartel arrangements. "No one in this government has any interest in protecting the interests of people who, with the money of taxpayers, have not, or for the decision of the authorities which made it possible for them, earned more than they could." So, at this principle level, everything is OK, theoretically everything stands. With these assumptions, with these, I will say, axioms, we agree in the coalition, in the opposition, all these principles are also supported by the public. However, the problem arises when a practice arises: when cases of actual errors occur, when cases arise, when an actual clientele or corruption action occurs involving the tops of the coalition policy. For instance, ministers. In this case, when implementation should follow, it is said that if there were sufficiently high ethical standards, the derogation, if in these cases or in this case there were not enough ethical standards, should actually be a reaction or a response from the President of the Government. The Prime Minister of the Government is the one who should sanction, penalise and penalise all such deformities that arise. I should suggest replacing the responsible person, replacing the minister. However, it is clear that these high principles, which are enshrined in the parties' programmes and which have been expressed here on Monday by both the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice, Mr Zalar, in cases where such violations actually occur, are not taken into account. Such acts are relaxed. Nothing happens. We have these cases in front of us right now. I will limit myself to two cases, to a specific case of Bulmastifs and a related accident with them. And we can't get past clienteleistic connections here, we can't get past political connections here, we can't possibly get past corrupt connections here, maybe we can't even get past these. In this case, the Bulmastifs were actually this theory, this assumption, which is enshrined in the programme of the Liberal Democracy, which was expressed by the Minister and the President of the Government, actually collapsed into nothing. Sesula. In this particular case, the President of the Government took full responsibility for acts which are certainly connected on a clientelistic basis, on a related basis, on a political basis and so on. Here we have all the forms you need to remember, clienteleistic connections. It is a matter of political decision-making, it is a matter of kinship, both in these proceedings in the judicial branch where it was decided, and also in this section when various expert opinions were written. Interesting. However, Minister Zalar, who is so keen to deal with individual cases after the State Prosecutor's Office, even in some courts, has not brought any proceedings, I will say, supervision, judicial control over the decision of one of the judges in this proceedings, which was written by the Judge-Rapporteur. He didn't order that. Interesting! In some other cases, he reacted extremely strongly. The Minister said that she had been called or that the GPU had informed her of this accident. You know, on each of the worst phones, it's possible to determine for a second exactly when a call was made, for a second, exactly, Madam Secretary-General! If you can't figure out when you were called, you can check it with your mobile operator, they have all the incoming, outgoing calls and so on, the duration of the conversation, because they also issue an account. Such childish excuses are extremely difficult for anyone in the National Assembly to buy. The Attorney General tried and asked why a certain period of time did not happen and was under stress when the prosecutor, who had to act and act responsibly, accused her of unlawful interference. Someone who has not done anything in this procedure for about 10 days, attacks, accuses his superior of being irresponsible or even unlawfully involved in some procedure. And the result is probably a process that needs to be changed and otherwise regulated. It is likely that a similar story will be experienced by the Attorney-General, for he has allowed himself to ask the Government for permission to represent the public interest in the process of returning the Bulmastifs requested by the client who later experienced this tragic end through the lawyer's office. This is likely to happen, for in all these procedures it was unacceptable for anyone to be involved in a procedure where he is operating on the name of Zalar, where he is operating on the name Kresal, where he is operating on the name of Sénica and so on. That something was not good in this process also shows the letter from Mr Vojtic, who was asked to take over the role of Minister of Agriculture, and this letter was made public and wrote to the Prime Minister Borut Pahor: "Considering your unequivocal wish to preserve the integrity of Dr. Pogačnik in the Bulmastif case and, on the other hand, with my inspection-crime knowledge of this problem, future problems are indicated." It is said that the Prime Minister of the Government was very active in this process and demanded something from him before he publicly invited someone or proposed him as a candidate. It is interesting how these things can be explained simply. The matter of the National Investigation Office is also very interesting. The state has its own state-owned facility, one way or another, and is struggling to obtain a rental facility through an intermediary. In the previous term, we had a major problem with an intermediary, and that was the only place where we were dealing with anti-supply transactions and so on. And I would like to know in this case, Madam Secretary, what is the counter-requirement of this intermediary in this NPU business? Mr Damjan Lah, who is with you today, said the truth twice on the show in Odessa and also in Tarča, where even the journalist covered it with a counterclaim, a statement by the President of the Court of Auditors. In short, there are very many of these issues, which are related to falsehood, to incorrect allegations, to some trivial attempts at simple simplifications and also to non-truths. Why are you doing this? What's going on in this rental business, I'd say, middleman, is actually a typical tycoon story. All the tycoons came in this way or in a very similar way when someone else paid for them and they became owners. All major tycoon stories took place in exactly the same way. And how can those who will allow this tycoon story to become the owner of an object through the margin in this business fight against the tycoons, against customerism, against corruption and against other acts? They do not have the basic conditions if they themselves have established such a story in which one of the connected persons will, in one way or another, reach a property worth some ten million euros. However, it will pay the whole country by getting the one who will own the property, a few more million euros at the end of the depreciation period for savings or probably as an investment for its future pension. The object will be its, it will market further, and several Euros will receive a large prize. In short, consider the one who does not support this interpretation today, holding the bag. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Katarina Kresal, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Maybe when Mr. Tanko just mentioned the Court of Auditors, in the introductions. I hold here the Court of Auditors' opinion, where it says very nicely that it reminds us that contracts that have been concluded outside the Public Procurement Act are null and void. You can come to me to read it, I read it at my first performance, but of course the facts don't come to you because hints are much more pleasant. However, it is also true that the President of the Court of Auditors issued a slightly longer statement for that statement and was cut in half. When I asked for an amendment, I didn't get it, and I didn't get it. So much for my influence on the media, especially the national media. However, in this time since I have spoken, in recent times there have been a number of misrepresentations and lies, but again, there are some things so purposefully so unusually said -- I hope that I will take over everything because there are a few. Once again, I must respond to the words of an expert on these matters, Mr Gorenak. The law on criminal proceedings is, of course, "leg specialis" compared to the Police Act, explaining very precisely how criminal proceedings are directed by the State Prosecutor; it can be guided by mandatory instructions, with expert opinions, procedure and guidance provided by the Government. However, the fact is, and certainly is, that the Attorney General has not been directing the police since he was informed of the case. Why can I say that? According to history. Because if so, it would not have been on the basis of the Plut case when the prosecution claimed that the police, although they were aware of all the information, had not been targeted on their part, and on the basis of this, the current Attorney General Barbara Brezigar issued an opinion or guidance in 2007 that the Prosecutor directs the police at the time that this police was informed in writing. And that's what the state's prosecutors are doing in practice. That's how they decided, and that's how they do it. About informing the investigative judge. In the Baričevič case, the investigating judge was informed at 5:51 p.m. about the agreement with the Operational-Communication Centre of the Police Administration of Ljubljana, the investigating judge also informed the state prosecutor. Despite this notice, they decided not to come to the right place. It's their legitimate right. Of course, it should be pointed out that "dominus litis" is a sighting of the place, in so far as it is decided to have an investigative judge there and not a state prosecutor, so. The D.A. is going with the investigating judge, not the other way around. It was considered that the question of what should be reported by the examiner then to the investigating judge. What the criminalist tells us depends on the criminalist who's in charge, is a matter of profession, it's a matter of customs, it's a matter of how criminal work is done. It depends on the specific case and on the professional judgement of each particular case. This has been highlighted several times, not least by the actions of the Prosecutor's Office and the findings of the National Veterinary Institute. The police couldn't confirm the suspicion of animal torture. Only the fact that an object was found at the site of the accident, of course, is not enough to claim that such an object was used in the offence, particularly because it was not possible there, nor did the veterinary expert wish to confirm it. Then how can a cop find out?Oh, my God! However, the criminalist warned the vets to keep an eye on it. How, therefore, should the police, which is not an expert, determine whether there is already a suspicion of the torture of animals to be carried forward if they do not even notice it, nor does the expert in the competent institution agree with it. Something was also said about the euthanasia of dogs, that the police got involved in their statements that they gave different ones. The data provided by the police are absolutely true. The wrong interpretation of these facts is, of course, your wish, but we're already used to it. That's how you do affairs. Let's go get the data on what it looked like. As soon as they arrived on the scene for safety reasons and averting the attack on the seriously injured, still alive owner, they shot one of the dogs so they could even get to the injured and start helping him. The dogs then ran around the yard. When they secured the injured, they started looking for these dogs. Then one of the three dogs came running to one of the cops, and a cop shot him. When they examined the area, they found that there were two remaining, one had already been injured, and they found themselves in a dog's arms. The police have further barricaded their way out of it. The veterinary inspectors who were on the scene ordered the killing of these two dogs. That's why the team from the zoo drugged them, but the dogs remained aggressive, so they didn't calm down, which is why the veterinary inspectors asked the police for help. The police then shot both dogs, pulled them out of their mouths, where the dog's zoo team even euthanized them with an injection. This, and not shooting, was the last act in the process of killing these dogs. All of this was happening in the other half of sightseeing. It was just a procedure led by a veterinary inspector. The inspectors have asked the police for help. And let me point out, there were no differences as to the allegations of the shells. This was all very clearly identified and recorded in the review log. The comments were also about the cameras. Mr. Blackach once again said something he didn't hold. In fact, the police did not believe the statement regarding the recording of the individual camera in Oražna, but they also checked it at the owners' place. And when she looked at the video surveillance system, she found that it was only a camera that looked at the inner courtyard of this apartment house and did not cover Baričevič’s yard. About the arrests. Ambassador Bogovic, between the lines, argues that with the spectacular police arrest of Minister Pogačnik and his resignations, the aim was to stop further investigating the suspicion of crimes in the event of the return of dogs to the deceased owner. The authors of such insinuations have, of course, consciously overlooked the fact - this has been said repeatedly in the public, both by law enforcement authorities and on my part, and the Director-General of Police Goršek himself has made this clear to the public - that the police are still investigating the suspicion of criminal service in the event of return of dogs to the deceased owner. He does not claim that, on the date of the resignation of Minister Pogačnik, the police have ceased such an investigation, the investigation is still ongoing. And the direction of the police in that case is led by a competent state prosecutor. The consistent treatment of the Minister, a member of his own coalition, in large part reflects the real political character of the police in my mandate. With regard to Mr Grims' remarks that the police in Parliament have carried out covert investigative measures. Of course that's not true. After all that has been said about this investigation, it should be clear to everyone. Freedom was taken from Mr Jelinčić outside Parliament. He was present in a house investigation carried out in Parliament under the Criminal Procedure Act under the order of the investigating judge who, prior to issuing the order, assessed that all legal conditions existed for this purpose. Ambassador Grims is disgusted by how the executive branch of power can afford to listen to the representatives of the legislative branch of power, Members of Parliament, quoting the distinguished American Supreme Judges, who are supposed to call such conduct scandalous. Only at the edge of this statement should it be said that interference with communications privacy can only be granted in our country by a court, on very strict legal grounds, which, among other things, are reflected in a high standard of proof that a catalogue-specific offence has been committed. And so it was in that case. The police again carried out their tasks operationally, autonomously, taking into account the direction of the competent state prosecutor. In the event that we follow such a reflection as does Mr Grims, we would in fact come into a state of inequality, at least for the representatives of the legislative branch of power, for Members, so that their penal rules would not apply at the time of their work. We would have created two legal states, and we don't want that. And something else about the building and Litostroski. Why is the location where the Ministry of the Interior and the police are safe sensitive? What's so special about MNZ? Do you like to hear such a populism comparison as completely inappropriate, or are the employees of the Ministry of the Environment less valuable than the employees of the Ministry of the Interior? Of course not! Every life is the highest we have. And the basic task, including the Ministry of the Interior, is to protect these lives. Today, you have repeatedly warned that this is a state-of-the-art ministry. And it is true, unlike the judiciary, that it is a state-of-the-art ministry and is responsible for ensuring internal security and is responsible for it in all security conditions: it should be a regular activity, an extremely deteriorating security situation, a natural and other disaster, a crisis, an emergency situation, a war, a terrorist attack. The first person to take care of internal security is the Ministry of the Interior and within it its body composed of the police. And that's why it has to stand on a secure optimum location. Because if such a thing were to occur, the attack, the terrorist attack, these things are still on the rise at the time we live in, of course that location would not be problematic if the Ministry of Environment and Space stood on it. However, if the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has a police force in its composition, would be an excellent way to land it in a moment to make it useless, one security authority to eliminate it. However, the Ministry of the Interior cannot afford this, I believe that you Members can say such things, that this can be said to the public, that I, as Minister of the Interior, cannot and cannot afford such a decision. And I don't care if it's not accepted in public. The Ministry of the Interior with the police, which is the fundamental guardian of our internal security, must not stand in the potentially most dangerous area where it can be erased by one move. He can't. And this is a very serious matter, not funny. And in doing so, it should be stressed that our Ministry's professional services have alerted former Minister Matthew to this, and he's excited about it. He preferred to remove them from the procedures and then decide for himself because he wanted to do so in every way. So, with the left hand, it's been explained several times here, whether it's really a dangerous location at all. So I might still tell you a few things about why this is a dangerous location by itself, especially in combination with the MNZ. At the location of the gas butane, which is located in the immediate vicinity, there is a gas warehouse, which is 4,231 cubic metres of gas in the total volume. In total, it's more than two tons. According to the plan for the protection and rescue of the Municipality of Ljubljana, there are two possibilities of discharge from the reservoir, one of which can develop into combustion, explosion and explosion, which could result in explosion, pressure, damage to people, objects and things within a radius of 1225 meters from the city of ignition. If there is already a discharge of 250 cubic metres of liquefied petroleum gas, one upstream tank, the consequences of the explosion, release and fire of the remaining tanks cannot be predicted due to the possibility of triggering a chain cumulative reaction. In the event of a discharge of 250 cubic metres of liquefied petroleum gas, the risk of ignition is present up to approximately 160 metres from the source of the release or to the distance of about 280 metres, indicating that the new construction for the Ministry is within this radius of 280 metres of the influential area of the criminal infrastructure facility. This is in an area that poses a constant potential threat or threat. I'm not going to tell you what else can happen if this happens, but I think it's already some data, it's been good enough. Even several times, it has been suggested that the building has a building permit to do everything right. Well, then it's all good. Of course, the fact that the building has building permits proves nothing and does not prove that the security aspect is not problematic for this location. The correctness of the installation of the facilities by the call for security shall not, of course, be verified by the administrative authority in the process of issuing the building permit. The legal authority shall only verify that the project for the issue of the building permit complies with the spatial act and nothing else. The assessment of whether the security aspect is a factor to be taken into account when selecting a location and which safety parameters should be taken into account in such a selection is, of course, a matter of the contracting authority itself. The contracting entity alone knows the nature of its work and knows the importance of its work in the state system. And if anyone, the minister or minister is the first to know the nature of the Ministry's work and to know the meaning of the system in which it operates and to know the specific conditions in which the authorities must operate, and in particular to listen to the professional services working in this ministry and learn more about it. As far as the building on Dimichev is concerned. It has been very manipulated by the cost of parking lots and the cost of parking lots there, but here we have garages, caves and the like, but there are no, and where is the fact that both rental contracts define the area covered by the lease contract in accordance with the relevant standards and a common price for rent for the entire space is set. [[...]] Both leases have a fixed rent on the whole in the same way. Of course, within this, individual premises are weighted, that is clear, the corridors are worth less, but in the end, it is usually when a project is made in full to determine a single rent, taking into account these individual partisanities. And in both cases, and for Dimič and Lithostrojska, this was done this way, and if we compare the price that would go for the furnished premises - we like to compare the applicants with the unequipped ones, of course from here the price difference. And for equipped premises, this is the rating for Lithostrojska 13,23 and for Dimičova 13,03. On this basis, I think you can create your own opinion of what is holding and how much posture, including parking lots, caves, surfaces and so on. Mr Černač also said that the budget for Lithostrojska was budgeted. It wasn't exactly like that. The Development Programme Plan for individual budgets for 2006, 2007 and 2008 provided for the construction of a building that would be built in accordance with the procedures carried out under the Public Procurement Act. In the 2008 budget, longer-term funding was foreseen in the MNZ project development programmes plan. So for a financial lease and not for a lease, as signed and agreed by the former Minister of Mate, who should provide in addition to the rent additional funds to purchase all the necessary equipment. The direct rental model at Litostrojski via DSU Real Estate means avoiding the provisions of the law governing the implementation of the budget and also means a disguised form of long-term indebtedness of the State - all that is not allowed. Not only the Public Procurement Act, but also the Budget Implementation Act, has been avoided in this process. Applicants also find it absurd that an establishment owned by an economic company with a 100% ownership of the country is automatically owned by the State and that the Government can directly influence business decisions regarding the availability and management of its assets. And at the same time, free use of their rent, so that, of course, the state does not own these properties. According to such logic of the opposition, in a similar case, the Government would also make decisions related to the immovable property of Telekom, for example, which is also owned directly by Slovenia. And we all know that this is a separate legal person, with its supervisory authorities, with its business policy and that their properties are not property of individual ministries. And that all of this is not one of the senses, where it goes from one pocket to another, also shows that all ministries have to pay for the impulses to Telekom and nothing works out. These are very clear legal relations. The question was also asked what was the motive for us going to rent a building for the National Investigation Office. Therefore, the National Investigation Office was established on the basis of the Government Decision of 14. 5. 2009 on the appointment of an interdepartmental working group and a project council for the implementation of the project for the establishment of a national investigative office. On the basis of this Decision, the Ministry of the Interior was committed to ensuring appropriate working conditions. The NPU had to take action not only because of the Government's decision, but also because of the binding decisions of the Council of Ministers of the Interior, on the basis of which the Member States of the European Union must ensure increased efficiency in the detection and prosecution of economic crime, corruption, seizure of illegal property crime, high-tech crime and organised crime. And as Minister of the Interior, I also had to provide the premises for the operation of this office. And as I have explained many times, I have proved, I have legitimately substantiated, we have done so legally, transparently, and above all rationally. But as you have already said countless times, legality, transparency and rationality are of no interest to you, you are interested in networks, connections, personal events, privacy. An interesting principle of government management! I'm afraid of what you've been doing for the past four years. From several addresses, it was also said that it would be a more prudent, wiser decision to buy a building. It takes resources to do so. And these funds for possible financial rental of premises should be planned when preparing the budget on investment expenditure, setting up an appropriate plan of development programmes. Of course, in the framework of the 2010 and 2011 budget negotiations, such funds could not be used because of the well-known restrictive policy that the Ministry of Finance has been considering for some time. Furthermore, with regard to the observation that the National Investigation Office, after moving to Litostrojska, could move to Stefanov, I only point out that Stefanova was already envisaged in the plan to solve the spatial problem of the State authorities for disposal until 2006, and was then included in the annual real estate management plan for 2008. The plan was, everything goes to Litostrojska, Štefanova is sold so that we do not even start a discussion about what the conditions must be, which the building must be sufficient to be suitable for the National Investigation Office. And, of course, the Stephan building is not suitable for the National Investigation Office. Once again, at the beginning of the debate, Mr Yelinčič mentioned the use of wiretaps to intervene in the privacy of communications. Once again, this should be known, this is a state of general knowledge of matters that all wiretaps carried out by the police can strictly be carried out only on the basis of orders of the court, everything else, guesses, insinuations, how to listen to someone on average, can only be fears, delusions, anything but not facts. And they're not what's happening in this country. The police also entered the National Assembly on the basis of an order of the investigating judge. And to direct the police in this case, run by the state's attorney's office, we must not forget that. These are not police investigations, these are prosecution investigations based on orders from an investigative judge. In the meantime, Mr Gorenak also said that there have never been fewer than 15 candidates for the Director-General of the Police, but that in our case only one has applied. This claim is not true. In the event of the appointment of Jožet Romska, appointed by the previous government, only two candidates, Romšek and Kaniška, who were known to be a straw candidate, applied for the tender without experience. We must not forget, however, that the Government had previously amended the Public Servants Act following a rapid procedure, so that Minister Mate could replace the current Director General of the Police, Darko Anželj, following a rapid procedure. He was in such a hurry that he could not wait for the formal invitation to tender, but he was under urgent pressure, immediately after the amendment of this law, to appoint his then personal adviser, Dr. Potočnik. Ambassador Petan wondered what was going on in the garage. Imagination is a bad thing, I guess, really. What was going on was cleared out. In the garage, paramedics and policemen fought for Dr. Baričevič's life. And that's all that happened in there, everything else happened out there. There was an attack outside. Dr. Baricevic was found there. Ambassador Grill was told that the official who deliberately and knowingly pawned the dispatch in Patrio’s case was then accused by the former minister of returning to his old post under the current minister. Let's see what it really was like. Of course, the claim is misleading, but it is also unrealistic. The official who set up the dispatch in the Patria case, which was undoubtedly the result of the lack of organisation of work and supervision by the former police leadership, broke the working relationship himself during the Minister Matei's ministry. The former Minister of Mate, although he knew that there were no more legal conditions, had introduced a disciplinary procedure, which was already outdated at the time of the introduction, and it was all too late. It was precisely because of such inconsistencies, negligence and illegality that the ministry, after the termination of another non-professional decision on temporary relocation, was resolved in this way, was temporarily moved because the disciplinary procedure could not run, it was stopped because it was outdated. He was temporarily transferred, and this suspension ends once. Yeah, and it ended later, during my term. And because of such inconsistencies, incompetence and illegality, the police had to take the worker back to work, put him in the same unit, and of course he is no longer head of the department. In fact, it is good that Mr Grill mentioned this matter, because it is another matter that points to the incompetence and sins of the former leadership of the police and the Ministry of the Interior. Instead of a water cannon, the police didn't buy protective vests and gloves. Instead of a water cannon, the police or police will buy transport safety equipment and other operational tasks. We bought protective equipment, as I said, already in 2009 and 2010 we bought it again, for about a million and a half euros. There's been a lot of talk about polls. Not that it would be important, but since so many Members mentioned it, I went right to look at this website and found that 73% of those participating in the survey do not support interpretation against me, 73% - a beautiful achievement. I also found that when Minister Mate said that politics no longer orders what the police should do." And the answer to, "Do you believe Minister Matthew?" 97% of the respondents said no! And I found another thing: 69% of those who participate believe that the police, led by Janka Gorška, do much better work than she did before. Interesting poll. It pays to look at it sometime. Indeed, many things have been said in this hall today. As a matter of fact, since my entry into politics, I continue to find that I am paying a high price for being a young man as an experienced lawyer who dared to enter your world. Because of this insolence, you have stopped me from the first moment on in every way possible: not only with lies and discredits against me personally - no! You've taken your political life more into my private life. You deal with me through my closest, my client friends, their relatives and other people that I've ever met in my life or maybe I've never even met. But with this last interpolation you have really reduced the threshold of political and other decency to such lowness that even though I have been subjected to such methods practically since the first day in politics, I find this difficult to understand. It is allowed to say all things, facts and laws are no longer an obstacle, and words that are the worst of insults and profanities have become part of your political speech. Ambassador Györek went no doubt the longest today. In his debate, he stated to me that you are not only disturbed by my actions that you have not been able to prove illegality, but that I am disturbing you because I am what I am. How else am I supposed to understand the comparison that other ministers are cute because they're mothers? This qualification, which interferes with personal dignity, interferes with a field that is a matter of every person, and no one who overcomes the fundamental respect of another is prejudiced. And he didn't just say that, he said a lot more: that I'm dangerous to the democracy that he fought for, that I criminalize other ministers, that I listen to them, that I demolish them, that people don't like people like them. Well, all of this just further proves the level of your debate, shows the willingness to cut down completely in order to overwhelm and destroy a person who is not politically close to you. People who approach politics in this way see political competition as an enemy, you can do everything you can, and when you see your political colleagues as enemies, politics will always be a war. And it will always be fired from all cannons. And that's wrong. As long as it's policy, we're not going anywhere. Your approach shows one more thing for this day and for the decision of my colleagues and you, including that there are no arguments, however you want to wrap them up, with any penalty you wish to present, the fact is that, as Minister of the Interior, I have consistently respected the laws, rationality, transparency, taken into account the professional services of the Ministry and left the conduct of the procedures which are important, and I have finally made the right, rational, legal and also principle decisions. I'm never going to agree to this, because I have to eliminate someone just because I know them, and we don't even go to a level of knowledge that we haven't solved yet. I'm not going to say yes because that's not how it's supposed to be. Because that means that only because I know someone, I eliminate their offer and I take another, which is worse, more inappropriate, inappropriately expensive. But here comes the illegality, and there comes the lack of transparency, and there comes the irrationality, and there comes the abuse of public finances! The numbers, Mr. Gorenak, I said before. If I hadn't taken the most favourable offer, the second offer would have been 50,000 euros a month more expensive. I will not take such a decision at the expense of the budget. Perhaps you would, apparently I would, given your comments. We fell deep. Slovenian politics has fallen deeply, after what I'm listening to, after what I'm reading, according to the words coming out of your mouth. I'm personally hurt, too, but that'll go away! However, I fear that totalitarian and individual differences in hate speech do not promise anything good. This gloominess of Slovenia does not promise anything good. And that, indeed, can all fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposaler, Mr Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u138	Today I have already said this and it seems necessary to repeat it, because we are now listening to the same moralization as we did at the beginning. Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, is not the victim of this interpretation as he wishes to represent himself here. Because of its inadequate and improper conduct, because it has not withdrawn the only logical consistency, this is a derogation in such a case as was found in the case of the clienteleistic lease of a friend's building on Dimičeva, and the victim is a legal state. If this is supposed to be a legal state, it is all the same, then the Minister of the Interior is first in this kind of equality before the law. According to suspicions, in the new law you have stated that in the case of politicians or suspicions it is not necessary, the justification of the allegations that occurred in connection with the rental of this building would be sufficient to ensure an independent police investigation. In this case, it is perfectly clear what this is about. I think that it is clear to every average citizen, as it was clear to him, what is going on in the case of the Baričevič tragedy, in the other part when it was found that laws in this country apply to one another a little bit more than the other and that one can achieve everything and the other also the benefits provided by the Constitution and the laws do not. In this case, something similar is happening. Those on the LDS list right now can do what they want, they can rob public finances and nothing will happen to them. Those who are in this circle, and those who occasionally meet in a garden, enjoy immunity, are not subject to the rule of law. This is a message of what we are hearing here today by the Minister of the Interior. I mentioned earlier on a plastic case how the lease happened. Why the middleman? It was not this property, if it had to be rented, which was not necessary, because in Litostrojska Castle a dedicated building for these needs, if it had to be rented, there was quite a few properties currently on the market, and all of these properties could be rented directly by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, leased, and became through the payment of a lease that would even be smaller than this lease here, the building owner. Here, the Ministry of the Interior pays 136 000 euros to a monthly private employee who pays for the same building, according to his statement, 125 thousand euros, according to his 2008 business report, and 83 thousand 201 euros a month. It is said that in the 15 or 20 years, the country will pay him this building, which the owner will own. 15 to 20 million euros. That's what we're talking about today! I don't know if it's that hard to understand. "Location in Lithostrojski," was said to be dangerous. And the security aspect was the one that justified that we should go to other locations." Then she's dangerous to everyone, not just the police and the Ministry of the Interior. Then it is necessary to empty all those buildings currently operating in that area, all schools and kindergartens and by no means can go to this building the Ministry of Environment and Space with all its exposures, as there will also be people working there, and the safety of their lives is equal to the safety of the lives of officials working within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is even more true; those working on Stefan and Beethoven, as well as many others, were looking forward to moving into this building in the autumn because at one site the problem of the entire logistics story of the Ministry of Interior and the General Police Administration, including the NPU, with the newly established National Investigation Office, as most officials come from this Ministry and this location, Stefanov. This location was dangerous only because of the Minister's friend, Mr Igor Yuri Pogacar, that it was a justification for renting his building, and nothing else. She wasn't dangerous to anyone else. If the location were dangerous, then in the spatial plan this location would not be envisaged for such a project and there would be no construction permit. By 2004, we had witnessed such stories as we are now witnessing, again by the LDS. Until 2004, the concept of the provision of premises for public administrations was a private lease. But not all of them. A huge amount of property and huge profits have been created on the part of dedicated individuals and through this real estate market. And this story was cut off by the government in 2004 in a number of ways: by establishing an internal market for state-owned property and by starting to systematically build the premises that it has also paid through DSU, through these leases, but in such a way that they will eventually remain the property of the country. And if that's the problem, then the Ministry of Education and Sport needs to be evicted. By the same model, the case was built, but there's the owner of the state. This is a state-owned company. DSU is a state-owned company. You even put him in the agency yesterday. According to the new authorities, they will no longer have any authority there, but will be decided by the director of this agency. Thus, all these mantras and all the justifications that say that the location is not appropriate, that things were illegal, ordinary mantras. And once again, renting buildings, and renting them in both cases, both in the case of DSU and now in the case of the Pogačar Palace. It's a rental. In this case, the provisions of the Public Procurement Act do not apply. They don't work! Normally, if a contract is concluded for construction purposes, contrary to the Public Procurement Act, it is null and void. But that's not what this is about! And please don't repeat this again, because even in response to the interpolation, it makes this very clear, but otherwise this rental on Dimičev is equally controversial. The profit earned by the private owner from the state nursery is, under this option, if we come from his revised 2008 report - 12 million euros, in addition to getting the building paid in the 20s. If we come from what he published yesterday, he did not publish the manual, and 2 million euros, plus the building. These are the facts. And these are the facts that tell us that this cannot be overlooked. Let us understand, however, that the minister has no credibility and that the police will no longer be able to investigate anyone for significantly smaller acts because this is an act that needs to be investigated with all the options available. How will it be investigated if the person involved is at the head of the Ministry? The water cannon was altered because of pressure from the public, which led to the acquisition of appropriate equipment for police officers instead, not because the Ministry would have decided to do so. And the politicisation of the police began relatively soon after the Minister arrived, it began when the invitation to tender was launched, the minister herself announced it, seven candidates for the Director General of the Police - no elected one named Mr. Goršek. I must say, I have no problem with him being a professional, but the way he was put up, he no longer has the credibility he needs to have. For on the basis of this appointment the minister came to the National Assembly and changed the law so that she could legitimately appoint him. So, on a particular person, for specific cases, the rules of the game were made. It's not good for him either. I once talked to him about it, and I said that I would have a much greater credibility and much greater independence if I hadn't been named that way. The secretary had some polls. I don't know where she pulled them from. Here I have a survey of Siola, recently, 9,912 answers, 75.7%, 7,507 people, "Katarina Kresal deserves an interpretation and should leave." I think it would be wise for him to leave with honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u140	I am an irreparable optimist, and I believe in every session, at every point in time, that something can be agreed on and from the purpose that was set when the point or session called for something good to be resolved. But look what we're dealing with! How can we really talk if my predecessor gets up and says, "Those on the list of LDS are available, etc." Discussed in advance and then let's go talk! I'll go in line on the back. How to deal with Mr Robi Hrovat, whom we are very well aware of, I am the Vice-President of the Commission he is talking about, and today he is here explaining things that the Commission has neither discussed nor decided on, and you are confidently saying that the Commission has accepted that it will do so, this and that. She hasn't accepted anything yet? She accepted that we had to get the paperwork - we didn't get it. The next time we got the arguments, we changed the decision, you went to court, and you finally got a negative answer from the court, rejection, and you didn't inform the members of the commission. You've usurped the matter, today you've been presenting false facts and it's completely uncreditable what you're saying. If someone in your services, as you say, tells you how to work, you must have replaced the commission with SDS's professional service. Go take a look. Lies have been told. I'll get you all the magnetograms of the board meeting and take a look at that. Of course, this is a fundamental issue - why do you question this issue in this way if you have a commission of inquiry set up, which you think has just started to work, it will come to the results and you will find out whether there was something wrong with the Ministry and whether the minister was really doing something wrong? No! No! This needs to be constantly abused, it needs to be kept on the agenda. Yeah, well, the investigative commission is to find out what you think is wrong. That's why you set up an investigative commission. How should we talk about the point mentioned in the interpolation because you are stating completely false, even now, after that, not only after what is stated in the interpolation. When we tried to exchange views on this, I had no objection to any witness, no papers, no matter what, but the court told you that some things you couldn't, even though you wanted to. This point is a chronic proof that you are not involved in the case of deleted this issue once, because I think it is on the right track to get it off the agenda. Decisions to supplement them are issued. The law has been passed. Finally, we have an investigative committee to clear up, investigate if anything is wrong, and we will come up with an answer. Second. Let's go to this famous building. Much has been said, namely, Mr Gorenak said: "Mate has been in business with the state company and that is why everything is fine." But here's the rabbit. The secretary didn't say everything. He worked with a state-owned company or through a state-owned company with a private company because it was built by Imos, which built countless things in the previous mandate and leads all the way to Grosuplje. The owners are there, too. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] , including some who have been indirectly involved in this [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Go take a look! Someone's been showing off some octopus around here. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, Zidard's on the Brick, SCT's on the Brick. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us let Mr Anderlich speak, and we have listened to others. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u142	I like to talk to them. It's okay. They can't get me out of here. Trust me. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u143	Mr. Anderlich, you are very concerned about the rules of procedure. If you want to talk, then you have to do it somewhere else, now it's a session and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u144	But now is my time, and you're talking! [[A laugh in the hall.]] Either calm them down or let them talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u145	I tried to do it, and you objected.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u146	Look, now it's not a question of who rented a building, who could rent a building. The question is whether former Minister Mate was even allowed to build a palace this way. Thus, the Court of Auditors, both the Kosovo Commission and the Ministry of Finance, which participates in these matters, have said no. Here I also have the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which imposed a penalty on the Federal Republic of Germany because the municipality of Cologne was building a building worth EUR 300 million for the agricultural needs of a building, and they were told not to work in this way. And if we came to this European court, we'd probably get the same warning, punishment or whatever. Here's the verdict. We're talking now about some other thing, whether a lease is better, worse, whether it should be or not. The comparison of Litostrojska and Dimičeva is not in place and is not relevant. We're talking about two completely different things. I agree that the DSU was building for state needs, but that is not how the former Minister Mate should conclude a prenup to hire it, because he would have received the same judgment as the Federal Republic of Germany had received for Cologne and had to pay the costs. As for the eternal darkness that you love so much. Mr. Gorenak says the German newspaper has written how everything is wrong here, how some prosecutor is under pressure, how the ministers are embarrassed and so on. Of course, it says that this is an exemplary example of how this is done abroad about Slovenia. Why don't you say anything about Berglund's contribution, which he also wrote about Slovenia, he also wrote about some connections. You don't like that. Yeah, you don't like the darkness either, because today you were talking about brokers at that building. As I understand it, Pogačar is not an intermediary, but he is the economic owner of this building and is a tenant. [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, you must know these terms, Mr. Pukšič, and you will see why. You'll clear up what this term means. The middleman was at Patria's. You said you'd explain what this middleman brought to this country with the 278 million. No, as far as it's known from these papers so far, a pretty busy bunch of this money went to some brokers. Yes, time will run out, no harm, for it will run out for all, believe me, this is the only legal thing that applies. It's another one, but I'm sure it's for today. It was interesting when Mr Gorenak said he had internal police polls available only to employees and former employees. But all his colleagues are quoting, and that is now the holy truth, and a little adjustment is needed. If you're saying that they're internal, that they're only inside the collective, and they're supposed to be classified, then I don't know why you can abuse it that way. You can't have a dialogue, you can't clear up things that you think are controversial. You do not bring one argument, you simply want to fool the Slovenian public by constantly raising the temperature and loading what is right and what is wrong. It's just time to finish this, there's nothing left.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Jerovšek, you have no word. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask for a replica anyway, because Mr. Anderlich really needs to be explained a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u149	Mr. Gorenak, let me ask Mr. Chernač. You have a replica, Mr. Gorenak? Think about who's going to discuss it. Do you have a debate? Then, on behalf of the candidates, Mr Chernač. You want a word? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u150	Just two brief explanations. I quoted Siol's poll so there wouldn't be a misunderstanding. It was said that Mate should not build a police building and the Ministry of the Interior through the DSU in this way. That's not true. The interpolation response also makes it clear that other buildings were built in this way. Then the tax office, the Ministry of Education, Sport and so on, would also be contested. The case was taken in accordance with the law in force and in the interest of the State. In all these cases, the State will become the owner of these premises through the payment of the rent for the lower rent it pays, in the case of the Pogačar building.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has a lot of explaining to do, and you're a smart man. The survey I was talking about is, of course, also available to you: www.policist.si. But it is true that they are registered, mainly of an internal kind, employees, former employees. But that's irrelevant. Let's get to the more important things. Ms Kresalova now has a headquarters at the interior ministry at this time. That's not unusual. All the ministers had it. But it's strange to me that she's being serviced from that headquarters by mistake. Previously, she said that both in Dimičeva and Litostorski there are parking spaces and offices together, or garages, parking spaces, offices. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true. The contract signed by Mr Mate is clear, point 6.3.: the rent for 270 garages and approximately 350 outdoors is EUR 27,000 per month. That means this number isn't included. That is why I claim that Mrs Kresalova paid EUR 509 per month for one parking spot and Mate for 55. That's the difference. €509 at Mrs. Kresal's and 55 at Mate's. Just let it be serviced, please, with the right information. Point 6.3 of the contract. Otherwise, her headquarters are paid there, as it is also understandable that they are employed. And I seem to have another headquarters, and I don't know any, but I keep getting something on my e-mails. And I must take advantage of certain things, however, because they are of paramount importance. Many times there has been a public talk that €57 million will be paid out of tax money for Litostorska. The secretary's got it all wrapped up in it. She never mentioned that she would have €32 million of 682 000, which I have said today. One of my unknown associates turned things around a little differently, and he said, "What if we count the case to 294 employees, as much as it is in Dimičev, then we get the following figures. In the 20s for Matthew's building, if we call it, 9 million 456 for her 44 120." That's 466% or 34 million. So much for those numbers. There's something else I can tell you, though. Why is Ram Invest's business and renting space controversial? Someone came to me saying that I am not in politics at all, but he has to point out this and it is not optimal, he says: "The deal is not optimal and is not correct because it was influenced by friendly relationships, but whatever it was, and because the result is seen mainly in the fact that the financial problems of a family friend have been permanently solved. The caterer didn't build the building for the interior ministry." Of course, he didn't build it for the interior ministry because he started building it in 2007. The year 2007 was the time of fat cows, so you call it. In the time of the fat cows, he started this business. But in 2009, we were supposed to come in a time of dry cows, when these things aren't sold because they can't be rented, and that's why he urgently needed a savior, a savior with such a thick lifeline. And that was Mrs. Kresalova. What would happen to the gentleman if Mrs. Kresalov hadn't made a deal with him? I'd sink. Why? It is clear from the publicly available data that the gentleman has €1 million and owes him 30. This is evident from publicly available data that there will be no problem. So he's in a desperate position. And the solver of this matter can be exclusively and only Mrs Kresalov. The MNZ could also be the end itself, there is a third option that they offered me, the MNZ could buy a suitable facility itself, rent it for a financial lease or rent it for a loan. If the MNZ leased a loan at the same heights as the rent paid today, it would have been the owner in the 20s. It's not like that. Next thing. Madam Secretary has spoken a lot again. And again, I'm asking her a question that was raised by DeSUS, which was set by Zares, and so did I. Again, I ask: Can anyone in the hall tell me if Mrs. Kresalova doesn't know, doesn't know and can't do it - how is it possible that the MNZ is paying 16,000 euros a month to Mr. Pogačar? How, then, is it possible that in 20 years he will still be cashing 125,000 euros, but will he become the owner of the house?Oh, my God! But he'll be the owner of the house. And this thing isn't normal. I repeat what I said yesterday this morning: 15 million 240 thousand euros is worth the building. The MNZ will pay $19 million in leasing interest and something else. The MNZ will pay 32,682, the difference is 12 million. Yesterday, Mr. Pogačar said, so I was introduced by the press, he realized when he said, "I pay 125 thousand euros and not 83 thousand." And he said, "Yeah, it's still 20 years. The same journalists have checked the matter today and claim that it is not true, but that it will pay the matter first and will become a permanent owner sooner. If that's true, it's an even bigger fraud. And nothing helps what Mr Gantar says, they also told me that he would ask for Mrs Kresal's replacement later. That doesn't help either. That doesn't help. A few more answers. A few more answers are needed. Cops in the end. Don't hurt them. You insult them, whoever you're talking about on this subject. When they got there, let's put ourselves in their skins -- "they were flaked, they fell down." Before they fell down, they were frayed. That's a fact. And we all know why they were frigged. Two things. I'm not gonna say it in the microphone, and we all know what I'm talking about. And then it's perfectly normal for them to have some problems. But there are some facts, and Mrs. Kresalov cannot keep it quiet. The investigative judges, because the cops didn't come there to lie, but they came to do a professional exam. And the matter is clear. They immediately knew that they had found the subject of a possible crime there. I don't know if they remembered it could be a crime or something. They warned the vets, not the investigating judge. And this thing stays. But I'm still saying that the directive can't go past the law. The law is perfectly clear in this area. The Public Prosecutor is deemed to have taken the lead at the time he was informed. Of course, it would show a lot of things to say in this place, but there isn't much time. But the minister returned, and again, you probably didn't hear: no one in the hall could answer me, not from the Members, and not you. DeSUS is waiting, really waiting: How is it possible that you are paying EUR 136 000, the gentleman continues to indicate 125 and puts it in pocket 11 each month? How is it possible that after 20 years he will become the owner of the building with state money and from then on he will still receive the rent and this rent will still be 136.000 plus valorisation? But from then on, he will put €136,000 in his pocket, because the building will already be his. And however you compare it, someone also compared it to Litostrojska, the matter is not comparable. Mr Anderlich has given me an argument today, of course Mr Mate has not dealt with the company at all, but with a state-owned company, you will not find any signature to go this way. And it's totally different if you've been paying the rent to the state for 20 years than if you're paying the private. And that's the essential difference. Please respond. Anyone who can answer that can answer that. DeSUS is waiting, he's really waiting, in my opinion, because there's no one here, and so are we. But I have an accident, and the Minister of Justice won't tell me what was wrong with the state's attorney, who is a member of the constitution, and neither are you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, I don't know if I would explain yet, because obviously nothing is going to happen to you, so maybe I'd rather ask you how it is possible for us to pay EUR 33 million for private rents in this country. How is that possible? You've allowed this to happen as well as the previous government. Crime, isn't it? All these ministries, 18 ministries pay $33 million for rents and they pay even under your government, it was no different. How is it possible not to question all these tenants, what do they do with this money? What are they doing? They have credits, leases, mortgages? Is it possible that new houses build from this money, or are they flying on vacations, or are they doing something else with this money? Why don't we ask them? Because they don't hand over to the Ministry of the Interior, which is run by Katarina Kresal. One thing is clear. One thing goes on your nerves. And that's me. And this has nothing to do with law, not with lawfulness, not with transparency, not with rationality, anything you've done in your mandate has nothing to do with it. I'm going to get on your nerves. But that won't be enough to get rid of me, it won't be enough. And one more thing. We go around poor Ram Invest all the time. I already said at the outset, if legality does not count, if transparency does not count, if the price does not count, if the public interest does not count, then what the hell does it consider to be in business? Apparently, there's a private connection for you. And who sets the limit? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u155	Mr Jerovšek, I ask you kindly to behave with dignity and do not comment on every sentence. You have no right to comment from the bench until you have the floor. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. I know who sets that privacy limit. It is governed by the Anti-Corruption Law and the Commission on Prevention of Corruption. Each year, they shall draw up a list of companies with which ministries may not participate due to personal connections. And Ram Investa is not on this list for the Ministry of the Interior and Hypo Leasing is not on this list for the Ministry of the Interior. And these are naked facts. Nothing but that. But we've already said, facts, marriages are easy to skip. And one more thing. I'm not even gonna look for her. But you keep telling me, and I'm going to be completely consistent, and it's irrelevant that you keep telling me that when I say that I have high ethical standards, that I won't make deals with family members, with my partner or with my friends. You made a pico where it's not. I know exactly what I said because I have to keep repeating this sentence. I said that I had high ethical standards and that I would not do business for the ministry with my family members, a partner or some friend that I've been with all day. That's what I said. And the next time I said, "Yes, I know Mr. Pogacar, we sat together a few times, we sat together." And that's a fact. And one of the events we sat on together was this famous wedding. One of 120 guests or even more. And so do not make dots where there are no dots, where the comma is, because of course then everything gets a completely different meaning. But despite the fact that the business was concluded for the public good, we can't. Unfortunately, I don't know why this appearance or image of me is causing these reflections in the background, but the fact is that the business has been carried out by the Ministry's professional services, that they've been combing the market, that they've been collecting offers, that they've come to see that they've done the analysis, and then the matter has come to me. And they said, "These are the best." And they said, "It goes the lowest." And they went to negotiate and agreed on the price. Not me. If we had made a different decision, it would have been different. And what would happen if it were different, and I knew the other guy, maybe the third, the fourth. Colleagues from SD have wisely warned that 2 million people are few, and if you've done anything else before entering politics, if you've had your life, your career, your profession, you know a lot of people. Especially if you were a lawyer. It was your job to represent people. If we leave this way of thinking, we'll all find ourselves in this vortex very quickly. I am very handy now, but I am also resilient, so beautiful you will not rule me, but sooner than later you will all be in it, because tomorrow we will start reviewing those 171 leases that the state has concluded if we allow it. And the next time you answer to them, what about those 171 rentals that you probably didn't even make, you certainly didn't make them. Mr. Gorenak likes garages very much. Let's take a look at the comparisons of the garage rentals. It should be pointed out that the rental contract for Dimič's price for garages alone is not fixed and therefore the figure of EUR 509 for rent for the garage site is misleading. But we're used to it. Given that the parking space is approximately 12,5 square metres, the price of 13.03 euros per square meter would be the rent of 162,88 euros. However, it should be added immediately that the rent price of 13,03 euros also covers the rental of equipment representing approximately 2,14 euros per square metre. Then it will be a rental for the garage, which is otherwise not foreseen because we have a collective rent, but if we are already calculating - Mr Gorenak said to calculate - then the rent for the garage is 136.13 euros. And if we compare this rent for the garage with that for Litostorski, then we get to Litostorski on the same principle and after the same calculation machination up to 138.66 euros. And what does this show again: that the rent for the garage in Litostorski is higher than the rent for the garage in Dimičeva. Whatever you're turning, however you flip the papers, you're counting, the fact is that Litostroske is more expensive. And not just that it was illegally built. And it's also in a security area that's inappropriate. And someone said more than once today why it all started. Because the minister decided to go to Dimic's. No, it all started because Minister Mate decided to go to Littoral. And since he didn't want to go to law school, he went around the bend. And then he went into a rental contract, and he went through all the procedures, and he heard it was an inappropriate location, and he went to build where he wasn't supposed to. That's where it all started. I was only able to accept a responsible solution, to explain, to take on the anger of the employees who are now oppressed on Stefan, and elsewhere, because this is responsible because it is an expert decision because it is a legal decision. Because this is a decision that should have been made by Mate or should not have been made at all. That's the truth about Litostroski. A man who could easily throw money out the window, which is not necessary, would not be overly busy saving at the Ministry. But I'm not the kind of guy who throws money out the window. I know how hard it is to earn it. I had to earn everything in my life on my own. Nothing was given to me. I can appreciate it. That is why we have treated our public funds very carefully. Last year we put in place strict austerity measures. The result of these savings measures for 2009 is a savings of EUR 3 million 967 000, which is not a small amount of money. We have taken a number of austerity measures. Not to travel on average on business trips, to limit them by number, for a period of time to limit delegations. We've renegotiated for all contracts. We have reduced the contracts from 15% to 20%, and there are also several percentages of the value, those already concluded, in order to make it as cost-effective as possible. We went to rationalise the ministry, to reduce jobs, to bring services together. Finally, in just one year, more than four million savings were saved. I don't know who else can brag about it. We work so seriously with resources. Today, we have also heard many times that this police force is truly completely politicized. And if that were the case, then the police would only deal with politics. Obviously, he is not involved in politics, because he is significantly more successful than he had in his previous term. They have just completed their annual report. And some information, maybe. In 2010, the police achieved an impressively good result, despite the increased number of crimes being dealt with, which increased from 81.917 to 87.465 or 6.8% compared to the previous year, the proportion of crimes investigated increased from 45 to 48. That Mr. Gorenak would know exactly what it is. Someone waved their hand there, but it's huge for police work. This is the highest investigation, the highest level of investigation in the last 10 years. The police have never been so good at investigating crimes. Now it is. We have never had fewer dead on Slovenian roads. Road safety has improved significantly, with 20.592 or 9.6% fewer accidents involving 171 or 20.1% fewer deaths. The police have also dealt effectively with the occurrence of domestic and other violence. This was reflected in specific figures. The number of measures prohibiting access to a specific place or person from 553 to 1,120 increased, representing more than 100%. Over our national borders, due to the good work of the police, the smallest movement of illegal migrants has been recorded in recent years. The number dropped from 1.186 to 824, which is 30.5%. A lot. Of course, for these excellent results, I don't have the credit. I know this is the result of good leadership, that this is the result of every cop, every cop in particular. The leadership I have allegedly set up has ensured better organisation, greater rationality, and, above all, better success for the police. I don't know how you can even stand still and say they're politicized because they're no doubt better than ever before. And that makes you safer and makes you feel better. You won't admit it in the National Assembly, but when you walk down the road at night, you'll find that nice. Another brief response to Mr. Chernač's statement. It is important to reiterate that as regards the event of 2. 2, the Baricevic case, when the bullmastiff dog attack occurred, was closed for the police. And not only for the police, but also for the State's Attorney's Office, who rejected both the Animal Protection Society's complaint and the police report. However, what remains important for these same dogs is the forecasting process, which is being carried out intensively by the police in cooperation with the State Prosecutor's Office. This is about returning these dogs to the owner. This case isn't closed yet. The aim of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office is to investigate the possible abuse of the official position in this process of returning dogs. And that's exactly what it means that the police are absolutely following only one objective, namely professionality and legality, regardless of the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak on behalf of the proposer, Mr. Chernač? Here, you have the floor, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Neither the Minister of the Interior nor any of her colleagues and colleagues from the Government, as well as the Prime Minister themselves, have cast aside the suspicions raised by the interpellationers from the Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and Slovenian national parties in the interpretation and today further explain during the debate in the presentations on the views of the groups of Members and after individual discussions. Not even the suspicions of Baričevič's investigation, nor the politicisation of the police, nor the so-called deleted, but especially the clienteleistically agreed and unnecessary rental of the so-called Pogačar glass palace. Allow me to take a short walk through these readings that we've listed. In the event of an investigation by Baričevič, confidence in an independent and professional investigation was crucial for interpolation investors. This confidence has been shaken since the beginning because of the way this investigation has been conducted. We've been given some kind of media lockup. If the internet were not available, this investigation at the Ministry of the Interior would probably end by reading in those chronicles about angry dogs falling and tearing apart and killing their master to death. That's how the story began at first. Remember, all public anger was directed in this direction in the first days. People called us and talked about when they went for a walk with dogs, people who met them turned horribly away from them. But that's the smaller problem. All I'm talking about is that if this investigation remained at this point and probably would have remained if the individual circumstances had not come to the public, it could have turned the matter away from the substance of the matter. There have already been initiatives at the time, remember, to change the law in this area and so on, which has turned out to be completely unnecessary. Why did this happen? The minister said that she was informed by the police between 5:30 p.m. and 18 p.m. The investigating judge was notified by the police at 17.51. This information has been provided in detail. We do not have accurate information about her notification today, but we can doubt that she was informed later. We do not doubt, however, that because she publicly stated that she had informed her partner, who had not been in this case, we hope that nothing was specifically tangulated. Therefore, the police of the investigating judge did not at all report the suspicion that dogs could be abused. As a result of this incomplete notification, of course, there was no on-call investigative judge or district attorney at the scene of the event. At 9: 50 p.m., when this review was completed, these things were just completed or informed of what was actually going on in this area. So all the time, under the law, the Minister of the Interior held a hand over this investigation. This process has brought together an unusually large number of acquaintances, friends who are probably not involved in the case in which the public understood that something with the rule of law in Slovenia was wrong. And here we would expect a clear call from the Minister of the Interior, or the conduct, to distance itself from this investigation and enable it to be concluded independently. Her client colleagues also spoke about the right to conclude this investigation as soon as possible and to make all the findings known to the public. What happened? It happened that he was silent for a while, and then conflicting information about how and how these dogs were destroyed. The police themselves got involved in their opposing statements when it was said that one dog was shot, two euthanized. The National Veterinary Institute's report clearly and unequivocally shows that all three dogs were shot, two apparently from a higher place, probably from a garage, and all three were sexually abused. The circumstances of this tragedy also indicated that it was not an ordinary event, but an event requiring a different investigation, a house investigation, and everything else. Suspects of a possible violent death have also arisen, and to this day they have not been investigated. And interestingly, at this time, 2.2 this tragedy occurred, it was Tuesday, 5.2. a copy of the so-called Bužekian estate from the owner to Mr Anderlic's company, owner of the Kranjska Investment Company, also a friend of the Minister of Home Affairs. Finally, the media reported on the elite dance in Vienna, where they participated. All these circumstances speak of suspicion of the independence and professionality of this investigation and do not give rise to public confidence in independent work in these cases, which is bad. For this reason, the next observation appears, which speaks of police politicisation, which we understand in this way, that the rules of the game are adapted to predetermined decisions. Thus, a decision had been taken in advance by the Minister on who would be the Director-General of the Police, and then the Minister had just arrived at the National Assembly and we had passed a law on this situation. Thus, a decision was taken on the National Investigation Office, which also began to act on the Minister's words in response to the interpolation on 14 November, and then the Minister came to the National Assembly and we changed the law on this National Investigation Office. There are many other circumstances, but there is no time to talk about it and to raise suspicion about the impact on the police by policy, which is why I have repeatedly stated that the biggest obstacle to the independent and professional work of the police is the Minister herself. It must be said, however, that the public still highly appreciates the work of police officers. Of all these institutions you are looking at, polls show that police are enjoying the highest degree of confidence and that trust needs to be maintained. We must not abuse this trust and we must not destroy it, because then I think we have done a bad thing in all the institutions we have in this country. And this main observation that we've been talking about today was the obvious about this building. I told a plastic case today, what it was about. I think it is clear to us more or less to all that there was no security aspect and no illegality and all that has been said, because in a similar way other investments, other places, in their houses the Ministry of Education and Sport, the tax office, the courts, even so on, were made through the DSU. Thus, in a formal sense, the way these things were done in the past was nothing wrong. In this way, the state is slowly decommissioning the burden of the rental relationship created by the 12-year government of the LDS in 1992-2004, which began slowly after 2004 to replace it with the provision of its own premises. Of course, she took advantage of the opportunity that was given and is legitimate and in the interests of the State. And this is a consulting and management company that is 100% owned by the country and through the payment of the rent gradually becomes the state owner of the premises. Which is good and nothing bad. So Mate worked according to guidelines that were generally accepted. As a result, it is also information that speaks of the amount of rent paid by the State and that this amount is increasing again now, since it is once again, catastrophic. Because this number has started to come down, and now we hear it's growing up again. It is said that this government and, above all, the minister, because the largest share is precisely this NPU, in the amount of EUR 1.6 million, is said to be 20% of all rents in the whole country. No other rental, and no other space, was rented or rented in such a way as a national investigation office or a building in Dimičeva, which was rented to the minister by a friend of hers. No one! But this is one way, I don't know what to call it, an interesting plot that doesn't just talk about uneconomic behavior. There's more. If you pay more from government funds to someone for rent, not to become the owner through this payment, but to rent as he pays a meal to become the owner of this house, which I don't think is right and this is a matter to be investigated in an independent investigation. This is something similar, as if one of us wanted to get to the house, on the market there is quite a bit of a house, not only one, but also this object was not the only one, if it had to be rented, we argue that it was not necessary, because in Litostrojski there are adequate spaces for the entire police and the Ministry of the Interior, but if it had to be rented, there are several facilities on the market, there is a recession, the rent is low and experts say that a similar amount of premises would be available for a half-lower rent. But not that way. It's something like if any of us now went to the market to look for a house, and I'd say, I'm going to the leasing house, and after 20 years of leasing, I'm going to be the owner of this house. And I would have decided that no, I would not do that - this was done by the Minister of the Interior - I would entrust this task to my friend, that he would do it for me and I would leave him to offer me a house and pay him 11,000 euros a month more than his meal. And look, after I pay him everything, in 20 years this house won't be mine, but it will be his. Would any of us, I ask, do that? Would any of us make such a deal for ourselves? He probably wouldn't, because he's not crazy because he deals economically with his property and probably respects it, because every euro is very valuable in these times. In this case, that's exactly what happened. But it's not about 1,500, 2,000 euros. This is about a million euros and a lot of property damage, but above all it is an unnecessary business. How many people have dealt with this for nothing. For this police, for the Ministry, the General Police Office has been building a dedicated facility for a year, on the basis of a legal building permit, in accordance with all standards, and now it is not good for the police, and for the Ministry of the Environment it will be good for the Ministry of the Environment. Please! And within this facility, we would arrange a space for all the needs of the police: Stefanov, Beethoven and also those people who are now in the service of the National Investigation Office. If we're talking about money, this profit that the state will create for this private person is, according to this minimalist option, if we believe it, let's say that I believe, 2 million euros in fifteen years, and the maximum 12 million, besides the building that he's going to be left with. What, though, if something breaks down because it is not the owner, and they demand that the building be emptied during this interim period? What will the Ministry of the Interior do? Do you know how high the cost of moving to such a building is, and how much will this cost taxpayers if they have to go to another building? There are a lot of circumstances here that say that this solution was not good. Especially not because it's the police. It is indeed a specific matter and it is so important here that the state owns the premises in which the police operate. And it is true that MNZ would not be the owner of the building directly after twenty years, but would be DSU, because through this lease it would be a financial lease because it is a similar story to that of Dimič or Mr Pogačar. I wouldn't go down on the manipulation we're witnessing from the minister, a 12-foot parking space. Of course it doesn't. All the designers will tell you what the norm is, given that you have to get to this parking space, because you don't jump with a car on it, it's a standard of 20 to 25 square meters, which means that even those numbers she mentioned earlier don't hold up and are different, but they don't matter. Look, in any case, if we consider everything else, on Litostrovski 10.16 euros per square meter, and the owner state through rent payment, and here in Pogačar's glass palace, 30% more, 13.03 euros, the state is not the owner through rent payment. Mr President, I think that I am the last or maybe I do not have the right information, given that the matter had ended earlier by the Minister, because otherwise I would have saved myself some time to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u159	According to my list, all the reported debaters who wanted to do so got the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I'm going to file an application, and I'm going to warn you that the Minister can also apply. I'll give the minister a last word. Colleagues, 33 seconds or less each. As a rule, we are not discussing if time is less than a minute, so I propose that we conclude the debate to conclude the debate on interpolation. Do we agree? I hereby conclude this debate. The interpellations shall propose to the assembly that, following a discussion, they adopt the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, express its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. On behalf of the delegation? Procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I propose a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u161	I'm going to take this break, but before that, we're going to do the explanations for the vote. I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS delegation
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support the discharge of the Minister, because we are also proposing. But this is the case, and I will ask the question again, this time for the third time, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have to put it in public because the situation today was such that we did not get any answers. We don't have the answers, the Minister can't answer any more, I'm going to point out questions that we haven't received any answers to. The fundamental question that has been raised today during the debate is: Why rent a building on Dimičeva Street in Ljubljana? Why not continue the Litostroski contract? The minister rented a building in Dimičeva, Ljubljana from her personal friend. The data show that it has done a great deal of humanitarian work because it has millions of euros in debt, which means it has saved it. However, it saved him in a way that is extremely irresponsible of the taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. The minister will pay 136 000 euros, and this person will continue to pay 125 000 euros, and will put 11 000 euros in her pocket. After 20 years, this public money building will become its own, that is, from this person, and it will put €136 000 a month in its pocket. So the company is saved and the owner is saved, at the expense of all those who also have EUR 560. On those, too. They pay taxes in this country, too. Another piece of information. The minister will pay €509 for a parking spot. And it's permanent, permanent. It could be 100 years. However, in the case of Mr Matei, taxpayers would have paid EUR 55 for 20 years and not more. These are figures that make it very clear that it was an abuse of the situation, that it was things that were wrong in this country and that the Minister should be resolved. Let me just remind you that here then sitting Mr Erjavec himself resigned when he said, "I can no longer listen to the suffering and suffering of the Prime Minister." Let me remind you of the Minister of Agriculture. And the Minister of Agriculture said, "I'll go." And he's gone. And some people said he worked tops. Look, everybody's gone. No, Mrs Kresalova, in your opinion, she will not leave, in our opinion, she must leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Of course, the SDS Group has already used this. You're the first to answer. Anton Anderlich, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u164	Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote against the proposed decision, because today it has been undisputedly found that the allegations from the interpretation are not based on the fact that the Baricevic case is more than obvious that the prosecution has stopped the proceedings when it comes to dog abuse or the presence of other persons at the scene, but that proceedings are still under way under the direction of the prosecutor's office, where it is intended to determine whether there has been any wrongdoing in the process of returning dogs. In the case of police abuse for political purposes, it is more obvious that, at this time, the adoption of the Police Act, the establishment of the National Investigation Office and a number of other things in the field of this activity, the increase in the detection of organised crime and other criminal acts is on the rise and that the results are better, as well as the adoption of the Secret Information Act and some other regulations, the situation in this area is better than it was. That more has been regulated in the area of deleted than has been regulated since the time of the embarrassing deletion which should not have taken place since February 1992. That the supplementary decisions have been issued pursuant to point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision, as well as the adopted law, by which we will be able to definitively settle this issue and to give the agenda a disgrace which has been and is still present on the map of Slovenia. This is also why this point is not based on the fact that the chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry for the numbering - let him understand who it is - has abused today's session to talk about things that the Commission has not discussed, taken no conclusions and this is supposed to be the truth that would prove that the Minister wanted to obstruct or even obstruct investigative actions on this committee. Last but not least, because the rental of premises for the National Investigation Office, as has been said here today, is economical and because it was possible to obtain and conclude a contract on the market under conditions that are known and will be verifiable. And I believe that we will continue to deal with the issue of renting premises by national authorities. And because, in this way, as was the case with the Ministry's pre-arrangement contract at Imos, we should not build in this country because it has already experienced this as a negative consequence of Germany's case in Cologne.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. But we have not received the answers, and we will certainly ask a whole series of questions, which we hope will be answered in writing, namely the exact answers, not by invented Flossules and some nearby speakers. Madam Minister said that in my case a prosecution investigation had been carried out. Would you be willing to ask if the attorney generals go to parliament with guns? I don't think that's it. It may have been another time, but, as I know, the police who, as many of them have suggested to me, came to Parliament after the command or after the direction of the Minister, arrested me here earlier, brought me here, brought me here, continued the investigation in my house from top to bottom and similar matters. This is a very strange act by our Minister, who in fact causes total instability in the country and then fears this instability. One wonders where there is a serious relationship to all of this. When the Minister presents herself as a good lawyer. They are good lawyers in Slovenia. Mr Senica is certainly one of the good lawyers, and certainly not Minister Kresalov. Police use criminals who are repeatedly sentenced to prison sentences and walk freely in Slovenia to carry out various police structures. I don't want to talk about names today. But I've already said, a whole series of questions are coming up, and we're going to be discussing these issues in there. Also on the deployment of police sniffers into parliamentary groups. I am sure that not only in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, but also elsewhere, is such an inadequate person. And to my colleagues from SD, who are so intensely looking at me, I recommend that they think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u167	Dear colleague Jelinčič, people can't argue with you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u168	The fact is that the matter is very much problematic at the level of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And we will not support the Minister. We will vote in favour of resolution and hope that the LDS will never appear in the Slovenian political space again after the next elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group is mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian People's Party will support the interpolation. The Ministry of the Interior should know which document in that country answers the question whether the facility, industrial or any other, is dangerous or not. This certainly isn't a wall plan. At least not after Slovenia implemented the so-called Seveso II Directive. This Directive is covered by the Regulation on the Prevention of Major Accidents and the Reduction of Their Consequences, which defines a Security Report, which is a key document to answer whether the facility is dangerous or not. The manager of this warehouse is Seveso II and had to prepare a security report on the basis of which he obtained an environmental security permit. This gas warehouse has an environmental permit, which was obtained on the basis of a security report. And this security report covers all the threats and also the impact on the incident areas. In this safety report, it was necessary, in accordance with Article 13, point 6, of this Regulation, to provide information on the risk to the environment on the basis of which the competent authority may decide to regulate the premises and the construction of facilities in the vicinity of the establishment. I repeat: that the competent authority may decide to regulate the premises and build facilities near the plant. That's what the regulation says, not the back plan. Therefore, the competent authority has data on the security of the facility and must take them into account under the regulation when issuing permits for facilities near the Seveso obligor facilities. I'm sure the Minister of the Environment knows that very well. Since the Litostrojska building was granted a building permit, I conclude that it is not dangerous on the basis of what the Seveso legislation says, and the Ministry of the Interior could normally and without any problems move into a building that was built specifically for these purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The Zalokar Orazem Flower of Zalokar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. In an extensive and long-term debate on the interpretation of the Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, we have today touched on the charges concerning the Baricevic case concerning the removal and rental of premises for the National Investigation Office. As regards the first two charges, I can say that they are completely irrelevant and pointless from the point of view of our Group. It is true, however, that at the time of this interpretation, only one and an important and relevant content, to which we have also wanted an answer, has been placed and is still being put. The question remains open and inconclusive: Does the state buy from Mr Pogačar and Ram Invest a facility by covering the costs of leasing with rent? And we have not received an answer to these questions today, nor do we have an answer to the question: Is such a way of providing the most economical space for the country? And there is no credible answer to this question today. In doing so, I must point out that this is not only the fault of Minister Kresalova but, above all, the lack of cooperation of Mr. Pogacar, who conceals the information that would clarify things and which he, in truth, is not, in love, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u173	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u174	It is necessary to disclose. [[...]] Once again, there's nothing wrong with renting space. However, there is doubt as to the usefulness of such a course. Nor did we get a document to really get proof that Mr Pogačar paid the deposit, i.e. how much his own shares were. There is no answer as to why the amount of the lysing meal has changed and how many of these meals have been signed and how long has the annex been signed? Such behaviour by Mr Pogačar, given that he is involved and is expected to cooperate with the country in the future, is totally unacceptable. Just the fact that there is no such evidence, and that it is not the only fault with Minister Kresalov, is not enough to support the interpretation by itself and part of the Group of Members. We won't support her because they don't hold charges related to the Baricevic case and deleted. It would also be easier for us to have answers from the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors in this regard. However, some of my fellow Members will abstain in the vote because they have not received enough convincing answers about the value of the lease we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Miro Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. I'll support the interpolation myself. I asked the minister a very kind question - I lost my answer. Perhaps this is even better because a cynical answer to the very kind question that has taken place here today would come to mind. I asked the minister a question about her introductory work when the minister said: "We have as many as 171 private leases, and the rent is 33 million euros." Six months ago, I asked a written question to your colleague on the left, Minister Krebs. The question was, "How much space does the state have to rent and how much money does it pay for rent a month?" The minister replied: "350 lease contracts have been concluded and the financial consequences of the lease are two million euros a month." It amounts to €24 million a year. Where is this difference of 24 to 33 million? It's less rent, more rent. Where's that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The Minister can't answer any more questions, he can't argue with you, so I would ask you to actually explain your voice and motives in explanation of vote if you want to do so. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I will support this decision, and once again I call and ask the Minister to step down alone. As I told you why he tortures himself, the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members. This will be a salvation for all of Slovenia. Today we have asked her many questions, many claims, proven claims, and she has not answered either. It is true that at the time of our discussion there was much outside the debate room, she probably read the texts that others were preparing, but she did not listen to the particulars that we have here. Let me clarify once again how it misleads the public on one very important issue. He keeps on taking credit for the dramatic decline in the number of deaths in Slovenia. True, it has fallen, but it started to fall in 2008, when we passed the Road Safety Act in the previous term and fell from 293 deaths in that year to 212. But she forgot to say that no LDS member voted for that law at the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u179	Mr. Grill, you can't argue with the minister, please. She can't answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u180	Don't bother me. I am clarifying how she again cheated in her last performance on how she was the one that contributed to road safety. Her Members, who had already led them, had voted against this law. She just didn't answer our question about why with the state money to a private person. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We're paying off the building that's gonna come into his possession, and he's got a good cash register. [[...]] Really, she didn't convince us with any argument, and so it would be ethical, moral, these are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his name, Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, she's been making a sacrifice all day today. This is a change in terms of previous interpolation, it wants to play the role of the victim, and maybe it's even a victim, maybe it didn't count on the corruption treaty to clear up and even find out that it was a corrupt contract. Otherwise, that's the explanation, that's true, that's corruption, but since our ministers are doing the same thing between the lines, we can't vote for the interpretation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u183	Mr Jerovšek, you are not the representative of the party Zares, please explain your vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u184	And that's the problem in this country. But I assure you that such practice and such conduct will not take long. This uncertainty, which is now gone and everyone is protecting their interests, which are interests that are not in accordance with the rule of law. This ship will sink as soon as it is sunk, and I therefore expect the Minister to gather courage and stand down before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I won't argue if you listen to me. Of course, I am deeply confident, and I will vote in favour of discharge for a fundamental reason, because the Minister, instead of answering my question, began to ask me questions. She did the same thing last May when she asked me to resign for a statement instead of me asking her to. She messed things up. I am responsible to the electorate and she is responsible to the MPs in the National Assembly. But she mixed it up. He doesn't seem to understand the situation. But I didn't get her answer to the question, so I have to repeat it, 16,000 euros is paid, and 125,000 euros is paid forward, i.e. the owner of the property. He's putting 11,000 euros in his pocket. After 20 years, this gentleman will become the owner of this house with state tax money at the expense of those who also have 560 euros in wages. Instead of taking and continuing the project initiated by her predecessor, when we were not talking about private people, when we were not talking about friends of the minister or the minister of Matthew, we were talking about a state company. And that is a fundamental and essential difference. The result, however, is that this company, which today, according to publicly available data, will have a million assets and 30 million Euros of debt, will float and live happily at the expense of taxpayers. I'm sure that shouldn't have happened. And that's why my voice, of course, is for interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I'll support the interpolation. I don't think it's fair on the part of the minister that she's condemned professional services for all these things that have happened. Professional services have decided, professional services have done so, so professional services are to blame. I guarantee you, Madam Minister, that none of the 22 mayors we are sitting here today would have made such a scandal for his congregation, and I hardly believe that anyone in 210 municipalities has done such a scandal if you investigate. First time. Another time. Madam Minister, if this is how it is done and it is done to get rid of your friends, then save the Slovenian builders. Rent all the buildings that Slovenian and other builders have and you will do something for them. Third time. Shame for the Liberal Democracy, 12 years was in power, 33 million euros a year for rent, and today you read this to only one government that has been in power for four years. Decentralize this country! In Maribor, Ptuj, Celje, Murski Sobota and so on will facilities not by half, 70% cheaper and you will save in the budget. And the fourth time. Madam Minister, is it possible, as one of the contracts says, to be true, unfortunately there is no way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u189	Dear colleague Puksic, the Minister cannot answer the questions, so do not ask her any questions. Continue to explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u190	After one of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u191	You have 27 seconds at your disposal, I've counted exactly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u192	Perhaps Mr Senica has even signed the contracts with Pivovarno Laško for cca. 40,000 euros per month for legal advice. [[...]] And in the end, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I'm just glad that your coalition partners don't believe you and don't believe you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u193	27 seconds passed. Thank you very much. I've been exactly counting, lately I've been watching some more hockey games, and that's why I've been watching the seconds, so I've been looking at it. 27 seconds left, 27 seconds left, because time was running out. To the pussies, exactly. Thank you so much and let's move on. No explanation for the voice. [[...]] You've got 27 seconds. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote against the interpretation decision because most of the arguments put forward have not convinced me, particularly at the points of the Baricevic affair and deleted. On the third point, I will equip my voice with the following initiative. The government and the president of the government. I share this initiative with the other Members of the Zares Group. First, to ensure that within the framework of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u195	My colleague Franco Juri, you too have an explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u196	Explanation of vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u197	This is no time for initiatives. You can give them to me any second. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u198	Mr President, this is an explanation for the vote. I will vote only under such conditions. And this is part of the content explanation of the vote to ensure that you conduct a professional and independent survey of all the circumstances of the conclusion of the rental of premises for the purposes of the NPU and in this context get answers to the questions that remain open. Secondly, it is necessary to analyse rental contracts for the premises of all ministries and other public authorities and the circumstances of their conclusion. Thirdly, to provide support within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition as soon as possible for the establishment of a public real estate management fund, as proposed by the Minister of Public Administration, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, and in this way immediately implement the economic rental of premises from one city transparently and on uniform criteria. Under such conditions, I will vote against the interpretation and with the hope and expectation that we will really work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice on behalf of Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u200	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! A day like today is another one of the days that will go into history as one of the sad days of Slovenian democracy. The day Parliament talked about the developments that ministers are doing. In these debates and in reasoning and in speeches, the main thing was to hear the accusations against others, to point to what others were doing, but there were significantly fewer answers to questions that were clear, concrete and to which Slovenians and Slovenians would now expect very clear answers. Over the last six months, three quarters of the years there have been several opportunities to talk about the functioning of the government, about cooperation in the government, including the answers to certain questions. With great sadness, I think not only us, but also those who have chosen us, find that unfortunately we do not get answers to very specific questions, questions that Slovenian taxpayers would be worthy of quality and fair answers. In all these discussions, we have not received any answers to either of these points, which is why I will also support this interpretation today. I think it would be right for the President of the Government to consider what the signal of today's interpretation will be. Unfortunately, I see that the epilogue of this story will be such that Slovenians and Slovenians can finally say that the caravan is moving on, with this observation that dogs are no longer barking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u202	I will vote for the interpretation, for the first time, because neither I nor my family will pay the palaces of friends to the minister. Second, because I'm a generation that fought the Vietnam War and doesn't like the police state. Thirdly, because I'm not going to let one narrow group rule the police, the judiciary, and in short, I know there will be, and there will be, the prosecution. And fourthly, I'm not afraid, even though we're already in a police state. And I'm going to fight this one to the end, and this is my fight for interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will also vote in favour of the interpretation, because in the Minister's answers there were only more questions, only more unanswered matters. And as said by colleague Jelinčič, a number of questions will have to be asked to clarify these matters. I will probably ask the Minister of Agriculture myself a question, because the injuries on dogs that have been identified, if not the consequences of sexual abuse, are obviously the result of dog food. Therefore, it will be necessary to ask the Minister of Agriculture what kind of dog food they sell on our market, so that top dogs have major anal injuries. I learned all the things about this affair at the real estate journal Dnevnik. There was an attack on the minister, but how will the Zaresovs vote today, but there's another story. Next thing. Madam Minister of Interpellation writes for herself. Before the year is around, there'll probably be enough material for a third interpolation. It is likely that now that the coalition roller will confirm it in its position, it will rest at the Bužekian farm. Today, however, she spoke to Tavčar's High Chronicle, trying to take over the Agata character. I want to know who Yuri will carry over the water. Is that the Prime Minister, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u205	We cannot answer these questions in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u206	Objective [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The day had time. [[...]] I'll vote in favour of interpolation. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u207	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u208	Look, Winston Churchill said many years ago that when someone loses contact with reality and starts to believe that it is irreplaceable, they should be replaced immediately on behalf of the defence of democracy. Today we have witnessed the Minister's defense not to buy taxpayers' money by signing that contract to his friend the whole building, but to pay him only two-thirds of this building from taxpayers' money, and at the same time he will have a canal in his pocket for some 5,000 employees' salaries in Mura or LTH's net. At the same time, we were given the long-standing sermons of Ivana Orlean Transition Left on high ethical criteria, which in addition to this fact is certainly symbolized by a private "shopping" with a service car in Italy from 200 to an hour. High ethical standards, Minister of the Interior, you're welcome! When someone substantiates his defense in this way, it testifies that he has lost contact with reality. But today it's not just what Winston Churchill was talking about, it's also about what Dr. Pučnik once said: it's about values, it's about Slovenia, it's about things. There has been a systematic misleading of the public by the MNZ in the embezzlement of the Bulmastif affair, the use of special methods and means in Parliament, and the restriction of journalistic freedom in defence of what the current ministry or minister is doing personally. This, of course, testifies to the fact that democracy is at stake. I will therefore vote in favour of the dismissal of Minister Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. May I have peace in the hall, please? Explanation of voice Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u210	Yes, today will obviously be again, because of one ministerial chair, a re-sacrificed state of law. The Minister herself [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u211	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u212	Even though she's obviously staying in this ministerial chair, she fell today. [[...]] She dropped out of law school on her exam where she wrote her own questions and answers. From now on, more than to this day, all things are permitted. This is also a bad signal for the police, for the police, because after today some, without receiving any direct instructions, will be even more untouchable than they have been to this day. Following today's disclosure, the Minister of the Interior should no longer remain in the ministerial chair of the Ministry of the Interior. I could move to the Ministry of Agriculture or any other ministry. However, after what has been found here today, and given that these reasonable suspicions have not been overturned, in this ministerial chair, if I actually believed what she was saying, I should no longer be seated. What he's saying, of course, is not serious words, it's empty waste. The rule of law can be slowly stuck somewhere, and I think it's a bad decision for the whole government as well. For that reason, I will support the infidelity myself. I think after everything we've learned and heard here today, the Secretary of State doesn't deserve it either. But he does not deserve it, not primarily because of the interests of the rule of law. And that's what most people would do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. An explanation of Alenka Jeraj's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. During the previous government, Dr. Sturm made an effort to gain some space for the judicial authorities, mainly on the internal market where he could get them free of charge, i.e. free of charge. In this way, the Ministry acquired 40,000 square metres of land, approximately 43 million. He's broken up more than 20 leases. For contracts that had already been concluded, including those concluded by current Minister Zalar, he achieved a 20% reduction in these leases and we had no financial and economic crisis. This means that, since 2004, or since the time of Dr. Sturma, we have a substantial number of areas dedicated to the judicial authorities, as was the case at the beginning of his term of office. And out of that, 31,000 square metres were bought and 40,000 were obtained free of charge. The Minister may be asked why this practice does not continue, but we will not, because she has failed to answer many of the questions that we have asked all day. Rather, she decided that we would pay the taxpayers or pay for the purchase of the building to her friend, thereby saving him and his company, which ranks among companies with severe liquidity problems. Today's debate has shown in particular that if we compare the two objects we discussed, namely the Litostroski and Dimičev facility, we will pay the rent after 20 years for the facility rented by Minister Kresalova, which will be 457%) higher than the amount paid for the facility for which former Minister Dragutin Mate took office. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of interpolation, because I do not think such a thing should be happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u216	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's my first time today. I listened carefully to the Minister's explanation, and I must say it's a scandal that the taxpayer's money is paid to friends of property. All citizens, including those with a minimum wage, will pay for the consequences of a harmful contract and I think this is a sample example of non-economic behaviour. A number of questions, very specific questions, details with which the Minister could explain the circumstances of the matter, remained unclear. For example, what was the deposit of this Mr Pogacar so that we can understand whether he actually invested something in this property, of which he serves EUR 11,000 every month. We don't even know how many meals he'll pay off and make contact with these 125,000 euros. A lot of strangers. In fact, this is some kind of service to the opposition, because this case will be written in this House as an example of uneconomic behaviour. Believe me, all the things that will happen here will be discussed, compared to this business. Over and over. You'll have to turn around and defend each session. And I know it's embarrassing for many of you here today because you don't understand, as we don't understand in the opposition, how this business isn't harmful and how you have to support the Minister now after the political dictatorship, because that's what the coalition contract says, otherwise you fall apart and walk away from the trough. That's your problem. And that's where you burned up, dear fellows. If Mr Pogačar were clean, he would reveal the papers to the Slovenian public and to us Members. But because he is not, nor is the Minister, but he hides them and hides them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Most of the content of the interpretation, in particular the level and method of reasoning of its content, do not deserve my support. However, I can neither explicitly object to this interpretation, because I should, and also should, be concerned about the payment of the rents that taxpayers pay for the premises of the public administrations, as much as I care about the payment of my own mortgage loan, which, unlike anyone else, I have to pay myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I conclude my explanation of vote. Since requests for pre-decision consultations have been made, 20 minutes, I am adjourning the meeting, which will be resumed at 22.20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u220	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! We continue with the adjourned session. Does the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Once again, I will read the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 40. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I note that Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has not been voted in confidence. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
