ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Franz Jurša, Milenko Ziherl after 2 p.m., Anton Anderlič, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Renata Brunskole and Jožef Jerovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! Here you go, Mr. Anderlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u2	Please read your apology correctly. It justifies this point of the agenda, not the entire session today, because then I will be present; unless I can come back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I don't know if this is my business. But what I'm saying is, we never said anything about names, why someone's missing. That's the list I got. I read it. If you're missing, you can leave the hall. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for Resolution of the President of the National Assembly. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 31 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal for a discharge, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! 31 Members have submitted an application for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. We have made a request to address this point at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I should therefore like to start by saying that the point we are considering is not included in this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but in accordance with the will of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. On 7 May 2010, following the establishment of the agenda in the College, when we applied for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, four days later, on 11 May 2010, the signatures of the 27 Members requested further consideration of the proposal for a discharge, which would take place at an extraordinary meeting. If the rules of procedure were respected as required in the last case by Mr Anderlič, then this point today would be considered at this meeting only if the applicants requested a written extension of the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, and if so decided by the National Assembly by vote. None of this happened. Nor has such a request been filed nor has there been a vote. Therefore, these discharge requirements are not dealt with in accordance with the requirements of the applicants, i.e. at an extraordinary meeting, but have been arbitrarily placed by the President of the National Assembly, past constitutional and business provisions, in the regular meeting. Article 85 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not respected by the President of the National Assembly, since the President of the National Assembly is not within the prescribed time limit at the request of more than a sufficient number of Members at the request of two requests for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, which would deal with financial, liquidity, work and other problems in the construction of the Sport and Business Complex of the Sožica, in the background or at the centre of which the Municipality of Ljubljana and Mayor Jankovič are located. Article 85 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly shall work at regular and extraordinary meetings. Regular and extraordinary meetings shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly. It shall convene an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic so require." The first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure provides, however, for an extraordinary meeting to be convened by the President of the National Assembly at the request of at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic, no later than 15 days. Both provisions are unequivocal. Thus, the President of the National Assembly is also committed in time to implementing the requirement of 23 or the President of the Republic. When the President of the National Assembly did not convene the meeting, he violated the second and sixth indents of the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which stipulate that the President of the National Assembly shall convene and chair the meetings of the National Assembly and the sixth indent, which shall say that he shall take care of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. Although the president of the National Assembly, Dr Pavel Gantar, said at the 25th meeting of the College on 21 May 2009: "The first thing that Parliament wants to do right is to strictly follow the Rules of Procedure. We can't play around with this." And he's not holding on to that. In its work, it does not respect the constitutional or business provisions, and we do not find this only in the SDS, but in recent times they have seen this increasingly in coalition parties. Complaints are written there, too. What happened in our case? On 30 March, for the first time, a request was submitted to the Slovenian Democratic Party and Slovenian National Party's Parliament pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution and Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting to consider a proposal for a decision concerning the treatment of the financing of the Sožica Sport Park project by banks in majority state ownership during the worst credit crunch in Slovenia. It is a request to address the many problems and dangers currently faced by the largest investment in the Republic of Slovenia under the patronage of the Municipality of Ljubljana and its mayor Jankovic. It is the mayor's pre-election project of the sports and shopping park in Stožice, large sports and business dimensions, whose implementation began without a closed financial structure, i.e. without sufficient financial resources in both parts, in sports and commercial. "We'll be easy," the mayor must have thought when this project started. The 200 million euros will already somehow come together, something with sales of business areas and premises, something with donations, maybe something with delays in payments and squeezes of contractors, but a lot could be missed by the country. Something directly through grants that will go beyond calls from the state budget, on the basis of arrangements with ministers and the President of the Government, and some would be reimbursements provided by banks in majority state ownership, such as NKBM, NLB and SID. The government of the left three has so far been very fond of the mayor. Also a coalition in the National Assembly. Perhaps this time too, she will show her appreciation for helping them to win. Ljubljana also needs two large stadiums as the capital: one in Stožice, a new one that will be connected to Tito's road on the highway, and a renovated bezigrady, which is next to the former Tito road and apparently without Tito in Ljubljana, there are not many viable projects. What is the problem with the Stožice Sports and Business Park? The sport work, which is almost finished, lacks about €50 million, and at the market, which is dynamic, about 200 million. And it goes here in both cases for a lot of money. Such an uncovered investment approach is dangerous because it causes a great deal of inefficiencies to operators, even greater subcontractors and everyone else in this chain. This is a problem of payment non-discipline involving the public institution, the Municipality of Ljubljana and its mayor. Payable non-discipline is a cancer of public finances. Since operators and the entire chain have to rent loans if they want to make an investment at all, but they do not have enough or almost no payments, they have a lot of problems. And there is also a tragic case. Because there are major problems with paying employees or hired workers who have poor working and living conditions and overworking overtime and inspections are not workable, not financial, not other, but not very noticeable. It even happens that the mayor speaks enthusiastically to the workers at the traditional meeting in Rožnik for the largest and only working holiday, and on the same day he controls how they lay grass at the stadium in Stožice, which is a great hypocrisy. Because it invests in something that is already too much in Ljubljana, because we have adopted a guarantee scheme law and it is likely that some of these funds will be provided for the payment of these matters, but they do not get these funds from companies that are intended for them, which have projects with a significantly higher added value and because this project also brings little employment and because the job in Cozice is several times more expensive than production or other activities. And as this will also increase the poor investment of banks, banking non-discipline will increase, risk exposure will increase, capital inadequacy of banks and so on. There will also be requirements for recapitalisation, and it is likely that a word will have to be said later. For this reason, we have proposed a number of conclusions, eight conclusions in which we have imposed on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare explanations on how banks in most state ownership can finance a controversial project for the construction of the Sožica sport park, and we have called on the Government to prepare a report on the financial implications of the construction of the Sožica sport park for taxpayers and the stability of the financial system, if this project is financed by banks in majority state ownership. We also requested a report on insurance under the guarantee scheme and so on. Then we also called on the Government to do something within its powers to improve payment non-discipline in Slovenia, while also reporting on the financial consequences of the construction of the Sožica sport park, the state of the outstanding and unpaid liabilities to subcontractors by the contracting authority and also to make public. We have proposed to the government to verify, within its competence, that the legal conditions for initiating the investment have been met. We have also proposed that the bodies in the composition of the ministries check whether financial, labour and other legislation are taken into account in the implementation of the Concise project. The National Assembly would also suggest to the supervisory institutions that, as soon as possible, they review the status of the Contingency project, that is, the prosecution, the police, the Court of Auditors, the Office of Competition Protection. Finally, we called for the National Assembly to also condemn violations of labour rights, especially fundamental human rights and the dignity of the workers who build this sport park, as violations of the narrow political interests and of the controversial financial structure of this project are particularly numerous, severe and emerging. We have proposed an invitation to the Government to do everything in its legal capacity and competence to improve the social situation and protect workers, even if the Government considers that the current legal options and powers are insufficient to draw up appropriate legislation or amendments to the legislation. On 9 April, the President of the National Assembly sent us a letter informing us that he would not convene an extraordinary meeting because our request for an extraordinary meeting would be inconsistent with the legislation in force. Since when has this decision been inconsistent with calls or proposals by the Government or supervisory institutions, as the President of the National Assembly has written in response, rejecting the request for our emergency meeting. We have not ordered anything from the Government and the Bank of Slovenia, even less so, but we have only called and recommended to both institutions and thus given them the opportunity to decide for themselves how to act. Such a case is not unusual, for the National Assembly also makes recommendations when dealing with certain other matters. When I asked Dr Gantar at the College of the President of the National Assembly on the same day on 9 April why he did not convene the meeting, he said: "Even if the government service or the Legislative and Legal Service gave a different opinion, it has given a very strict view, even in this case I should have decided not to call it, because this is so fundamentally contrary to what I imagine and what I advocate in politics and as a democratic principle. Someone else can do it, not me." By the way, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service before the item is placed on the agenda or in the programme of work of the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure is no longer prescribed, even less required. So this is how it is done in the National Assembly. What Dr. Gantar likes and is in line with his point of view, he goes to the National Assembly, which he doesn't, but he doesn't. The President of the National Assembly therefore takes the right to turn the constitutional provision in which it says "mora" into "may" or "willing" usually does not want to, as is the case with will. Nevertheless, on 20 April, the same signatories corrected and completed the request for an extraordinary meeting in which we redrafted the decision to the following five points: First time. The National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia to report to it, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, whether banks in majority state ownership are implementing the provisions of the Banking Act relating to risk management in the financing project for the construction of the Sports Park of Stožice. Another time. The National Assembly proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, report to it whether economic companies and independent entrepreneurs who participate in the construction of the Sožica Sports Park implement the provisions of the Financial Business Act, insolvency and compulsory winding-up procedures relating to the financial operations of companies and other legal persons. Third time. The National Assembly recommends a budgetary inspection within the Ministry of Finance to supervise the implementation of the Public Finance Act in the case of the construction of the Sožica Sports Park, within its powers and powers. Fourth time. The National Assembly recommends that competent supervisory institutions carry out a review of the construction project of the Stožica Sport Park within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions as soon as possible. This is the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the General Police Administration, the Court of Auditors, the Office for the Protection of Competition and so on. Fifth. The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything within its legal capacity and competence to improve the social status and protection of workers. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the current legal options and powers are insufficient, the National Assembly shall propose that it prepare appropriate amendments to the existing legislation. On 22 April, we then submitted a request for a general debate. On 4 May, we received a letter from Dr Gantar, in which he wrote that such positions, 1 and 2, do not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, although we suggested that both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government report within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions. If the request is made to reach out to Stožice and Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, Dr. Gantar will prevent anyone from reporting to the National Assembly in the framework of both constitutional and legal provisions. Not the Government and not the Bank of Slovenia. Jankovic is therefore protected as a Bachelor bear. The President of the National Assembly has twice called for such a request in the Cali to be eliminated. After a month and a half, this matter has lost a lot of weight, as the New Ljubljana Bank's credit committee for the Stožice project is now expected to grant a loan. Similarly, when the president of the National Assembly repeatedly protected his political thinkers, chiefs, coalition partners, there are more. The request that the National Assembly at its extraordinary meeting deal with crediting Ultre did not take place until in the third trial, practically after two months. Each time he referred to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which this service could not actually prepare until the points were included in the programme of work of the National Assembly. Only when the matter begins to be dealt with at a meeting of the National Assembly, when it is on the agenda, shall the Service alert if something is wrong, if there is any non-compliance with the constitutional and legal order and then leave the Members to decide on it, one way or another. This is said to be taken into account or disregarded their opinion. In this case, the President has acted differently in these cases. In these cases, it shall decide how the Members shall act. Of course, the President of the National Assembly has double standards. While the requirements of the opposition are thus rejected, they apply to points proposed by the Government or the coalition to a completely different direction. If such an approach were to apply to government acts, then the National Assembly would never consider the family code, the law on integrity, which you now forcefully include in the continuation of an extraordinary meeting, etc., because more comments and amendments have been made to these two and many other laws than the number of articles, and the President has found nothing. The President's excuses, too, that the demands of the opposition do not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, do not. Article 32(1) of the Rules of Procedure states that in the National Assembly working bodies shall be set up to monitor the situation in specific areas, to prepare policy decisions in these areas, to establish views on individual issues and to address proposals for laws and other acts of the National Assembly. Thus, the competence of the working bodies of the National Assembly is determined, and this also cumulatively means the scope of the work of the National Assembly, the consideration of policies, the situation in particular areas. Only if this is done are the laws and, first, the policies and the conditions. It is interesting that, under the same Rules of Procedure in the previous term, when the National Assembly was chaired by Mr Tsukati, then Member Pavel Gantar submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting to address the potential construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, namely on the Italian side. It was not directly about the problem of Slovenia, nor was there any problems with reference and not with the announcement of time. In the case of Stožice, however, there are problems in Slovenia. This is a debate on the implementation of financial and labour law, policies and situations in Slovenia. The same Member, who has changed the situation in this mandate, is acting entirely differently under the same rules. The role of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is defined in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first paragraph, and says that the National Assembly shall have a legislative and legal service which shall give an opinion on the compatibility of the proposals of laws, other acts and amendments with the Constitution and with the legal system and on the legislative and technical aspects of the proposals. This means that the Legislative and Legal Service does not enter into the procedure and form its position until the item is placed on the agenda of the National Assembly or the Working Body. It is only here that this service must be defined by the act. The President of the National Assembly shall also act when he submits an act by the Government or a coalition. In this way, both have the opportunity to supplement, correct or not in the process of examining the act, and others also have the opportunity to propose their amendments, even though each such effort in the event of the opposition is more or less free of charge. In cases where requests for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly are made by the opposition, the President of the National Assembly, without having a business basis, requires a preliminary opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as in the case described, on the basis of which he then rejects the demands of the Slovenian Democratic Party and other opposition parties. We wonder why there are so many different ways. Why do different rules apply to the opposition under the same rules? It is interesting, however, that the appropriateness of the act, if an act has a prescribed business component, shall be verified by the competent secretary of the working body and not by the Legislative and Legal Service. Both of our demands had all the mandatory ingredients. So they were technically appropriate. For example, the law on the conversion of Kad, which we discussed yesterday, and did not have all the mandatory ingredients, he even had false allegations, but the President of the National Assembly, because he was proposed by the Government, did not reject it. Let me give another example of the two-faced discriminatory behaviour of the President of the National Assembly. On 4 May, two groups of Members, with first-signed Anderlic and Yuri, tabled two pieces of legislation concerning the establishment of the municipalities of Mirna and Ankaran and requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Quickly, already 7.5., three days after that, the College has already considered the approval of the reduced procedures and also the request for an extraordinary meeting. It was listed immediately at the College. Today, when we had the College at 9 a.m., the same candidates made a request five minutes after 9 a.m. that the points be placed on the call for an extraordinary meeting - members of the College have not even seen the material, and the President immediately accepted the request. Ten minutes after nine, when the case went down, it came on the agenda. In this case, however, the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure, the President-in-Office, are not fulfilled, because it is not a matter of urgency, not of urgency, nor of necessity, nor of anything else. It is a general discussion and a general debate. But when we invest this when we submit our demands, Ljubljana runs and runs and nothing happens. Even when we tabled a proposal, we took the initiative to examine the procedure for these two requirements for the new municipality, now it is ten days past, and the President of the National Assembly has not prepared anything yet, not feeling any need, and the point will be at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. At the College, the President of the National Assembly also said: "I must say that, of course, formally, only after the procedure has been adopted and the matter included in the legislation itself, that is, the process of adopting this law, will come up with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on which it will have to be decided. Both laws in a formal sense meet the conditions, refer to the content that the National Assembly... has these formal qualifications for this law. Of course, I personally believe that this procedure - we will see what the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service will be - is questionable, and I think, in fact, that we will have to start this process from the beginning." Logically - with instructions from the President of the National Assembly and with a calendar which was also in this particular case. Otherwise, it is difficult to understand from this text, because it is also so said, but it is necessary to start in order and not somewhere else. Even in the case of these two municipalities, the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gantar, publicly questioned the correctness of the procedure, decided to vote. Only after the vote has expired will he obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Not before, but only then. In coalition, it is said, with Yuri and Anderlich, there is one concept, one model, and with the opposition and the Complaints, that is completely different. As the President of the National Assembly understands the constitutional provision and the business obligation regarding the convening of the extraordinary meeting, it is therefore apparent in the particular case of the Conciliation. After the conclusion of the College, in which we set the agenda for the meeting, when we have already discussed one of the following points of the College, we have tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting and for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gantar. As soon as the request was lodged, one of the officials was called by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to the College and immediately informed the President of the National Assembly. And the President of the National Assembly, without even seeing what the request says, how the point is designed without even checking that he has all the necessary ingredients, regardless of the fact that we have already set the agenda for the sitting, with this requirement immediately, which, at some point in time, extended the agenda of the sitting which had already been completed, completed the specification. However, I would like to point out that in cases where the reasons for the extension of the agenda arise after the agenda has been set, such an extension request shall be decided when the agenda is confirmed at the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly. However, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and no one else requested enlargement, including the President of the National Assembly, did not request it and did not propose it. He simply extended it on his own, without a decision from the Members. So the president of the National Assembly took matters into his own hands. They are not important, not the constitution of the Rules of Procedure, but merely his personal opinion on the matter. Since it does not adhere to constitutionally defined standards and not to the technological procedures prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly has become the main generator of problems in the work of the National Assembly. It triggers a number of unnecessary conflict situations, restricts the work of the National Assembly, rejects the submission of amendments by reasoning that amendments are diametrically opposed, rejects the amendment because then the law would be without articles, etc. He shall decide what may be lodged, what the Group of Members may deposit, and what it may not do. And so on. It also prevents discussions on the harmful and dangerous problems caused and caused by its political passengers, it is also said to close the debate on an arbitration agreement. Here we would only like a number of answers from Prime Minister Pahor, but they were not. Closes the debate on Zalar, Golobic, Kresalov, Križanič. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, be dismissed from office as President of the National Assembly and we also propose that the coalition propose a second, more suitable candidate. After all, this will be good for the reputation of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u5	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly. To Dr. Paul Gantar. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u6	Colleagues and colleagues! Excuse me, did I miss the space, miss the time, or should I say hello to you by the name of the respected city councilors and the respected city councilwoman of Ljubljana or by any other means, or has someone named me Mayor of Ljubljana City or does Mr Jankovic already know that he is not mayor and that the function of the city council is performed by the National Assembly? We could therefore conclude from the core of the defense and the proposal to rescue someone who is written by Pavel Gantar and is the President of the National Assembly in the Republic of Slovenia. I have to say that I can throw away my defense because it is irrelevant and unnecessary, because it is already just this, I could say, a justification for my resignation, that it is essentially a matter of completely different things, that in fact this unfortunate president of the National Assembly is guilty of not discussing and refusing to allow the National Assembly to discuss some third matters that have no connection with this National Assembly, but have a lot to do with the city of Ljubljana, with investments, sports, football, shopping centres. Do you want me to explain my personal views on this? They are very interesting, and many would like to listen to them, and perhaps they would not even agree with them even on this side, but I think they are completely irrelevant in this space, in this place and at this time. So, gentlemen, of course, I have to ask myself what this National Assembly is doing and how it's doing. And, of course, it is right that the President of the National Assembly is particularly under the influence of criticism and especially under the influence of the criticism of the opposition. The President of the National Assembly can never do all right because he is incorporated into the National Assembly, and this is properly, systematically and supervised and commercially determined if you want, in saying, a "conflict" between the various representatives of the National Assembly, if you want, between the position and the opposition. This is the essence of our work. This is why we are here, and that is why the President of the National Assembly is also a person who, when making decisions, can be such, can be different, sometimes even some mistakes, can't be avoided by mistakes, sometimes a decision could be made by ridiculers if they had the option, but always a decision was in the best faith and also a decision such as to respect the rules, laws and constitutions that I have to respect. And I must say that instead of the President of the National Assembly, instead of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly up there, we can install the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which will read itself, interpret itself and lead by itself the meetings of the National Assembly. Try to do this, and I won't be a part of this. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is at least one poor feature of the function of the President of the National Assembly, and this is that the principle of neutrality, impartiality, which falls within this function, limits those who perform this function in the debate, although this is not explicitly written anywhere, is part of the tradition in our Parliament and in other parliaments and it is considered that the President of the National Assembly should not be involved in the current political disputes in Parliament, to the point that his political definition is clear that it does not interfere with the authority of his office in political debates. Therefore, as you know, I have expressed my opinion on individual matters in the National Assembly only a few times since my election as President. Although I admit that sometimes it has been difficult for me, because I would like to engage in some kind of debate, I have abstained and meddled. Therefore, I am grateful to the proponents for my resolution, if this is a matter of discharge from the presidency of the National Assembly, for they have put me out of my office in some way by proposing a solution in some way today and for a few hours or forever, and so I will be able and able to say what they would never know, and finally have allowed me to at least partially realize my passion for the debate, the passion that I enjoyed in the previous term. Your Honor! I'm not going to defend myself today, I'm not going to attack, but I want to argue. I want to exploit all those virtues of democracy that have made this political arrangement the most successful form of political governance. For a democratic debate, it is important to argue, develop, present, communicate views and views vis-à-vis the views, views and arguments of others. The logic of reasoning departs from its pre-existing right and opposite position allows for the same possibility of being in force as my position. Respect for the opposite views, even though we think they are wrong, implies and assumes that we do not distort them, do not discredit them, that we communicate honestly, that we do not just collect from certain facts the things that we currently benefit from, but deny and deny the others or show in a twisted form. That's not enough. I have to be honest, this is a little bit on my right-hand side. The argument is replaced by judgments, convictions, qualifications and disqualifications. Clearly, the Word of man is not a horse, so we can say everything in any way, since it is just words. If anywhere, then the very discriminating nature of democracy tells us that this human river of the Word is not a wrong horse. The word is horse. Words in Parliament are acts. In words, you can kill, change people's lives, influence the actions of many actors in society. The ease of saying words, which are judgments and judgments on other peoples and states, concerns me in this House, especially because they are based on the power vested in the parliamentary function, but not on the power of the argument. As you have noticed, the proponents of my resolution, although I am extremely saddened by the text, which is not in their custom, state that I am breaking the constitutional and legal order - as far as I know, we do not have separate constitutional and legal order, we have only one legal order - because I refused to call a meeting on the financing of the Stožica Sports Park project, which you have already heard. I should immediately point out here that, if I have read the newspapers correctly, this funding relates to lending, to the financing of a shopping centre and not to a sports park, stadium or hall, and should be in breach of Article 85 of the Constitution, which, inter alia, states that I must call for an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic so require. The Rules of Procedure, the second and sixth indents of the President's work, and the 58th paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure and its first paragraph should also be violated. Your Honor! As would be the question and answer on Radio Yerevan: Is it true that you violated the Constitution? I answer this question: In principle, I did, but I did not break it, but I defended it. By preventing the abuse of Article 85 against all other articles of the Constitution, first and foremost against Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. Montesquieu has already pointed out the importance of this division and the danger that one and the same body adopts laws, implements laws, supervises their implementation and judges on their basis. The idea of "check and balloons", however, is embedded in most modern democratic arrangements, of course most in the United States. This, however, means that the National Assembly, even though it is the highest body of the legislative authority and exercises control over the executive power it also appoints, cannot do anything and whenever it likes. Even though he accepts the Constitution, that's why he can't and can't break it. Although he adopts laws, these laws also apply to him. The fathers of the Constitution in Slovenia have stressed the importance of the division of power, for example the exclusion of the common function of a Member or Minister, which is not and so on in some countries. 85. Article 85 of the Constitution and its implementation and provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are, in addition to the institution of interpretation, constitutional charges, questions sent, investigative commissions, a strong instrument of control over the executive branch of power, but cannot be outside the scope of the powers of the National Assembly. And now, of course, the most important. My decision to reject this request for an extraordinary meeting was not based on some arbitrary assessment, but in view of the principle of the division of power and the fact that the National Assembly itself is subject to compliance with the laws it adopts, this decision was based on solid arguments and a legal basis, not on my own will. The legislative and legal service has explicitly stated, in all its opinions, that the request, in addition to being supported by a constitutionally defined number of Members' signatures, must be legally permissible in accordance with its content. The content of the requirement cannot therefore be arbitrary, but it must also meet other conditions which expressly or reasonably stem from other constitutional, legal or commercial provisions governing the work and competences of the National Assembly. In a material sense, therefore, a request must be made for the consideration of a matter which falls within the competence of the National Assembly or which is contrary to the fact that a meeting of the National Assembly cannot be convened if matters are within the exclusive competence of other authorities or other State bodies or matters which are not covered by the constitutional, legal and commercial powers of the National Assembly. The National Assembly cannot, and must not, discuss and influence the negotiation of a private investment company building a facility, a trading centre with a consortium of banks, where one of the banks in which the State has a majority share. The National Assembly must not interfere with the autonomy of the activities of economic or other actors, as the legal framework for this action and the admissibility of the action lay down both abstract legal standards and concrete rules and actions. Should we therefore suspend the credit committees in banks and abolish the management of banks, their supervisory councils, their ownership functions and transfer the decision on loans to an office of a Member who has signed up for my discharge? I would immediately convene a meeting if the applicants would like to discuss and adopt decisions and recommendations on the government's policy regarding partial state-owned banks and their real or presumed exposure to risk credit. This is what has been said before, discussing policies, responsibilities, the supervision of the executive branch of government. However, this is obviously of no interest to anyone, but a concrete case in the context of the upcoming elections in Ljubljana and in the case of which the formal budget did not put in a single euro. I must point out that the demand for my resolution is unusually divisive and formalistic. In fact, it seems to me that it is not even me in the pranger, but the city of Ljubljana, its mayor, its builders, stadium or sports hall. I'm being stalled. For all the meetings, both those convened and those in which I requested additions, the additions came, were appropriate and were called. In all these sessions, business deadlines were strictly respected, especially the 15-day deadline for the meeting. Therefore, I must strongly reject these allegations. [[Later on in the debate, I'll be able to do it in more detail.]] . I think that the demand for my resolution, which I had previously expected, is not a kind of narrower part, but is part of a broader political context, a context of fighting in which there is no God and everything is allowed. It is in which those who have some political goals resort to all means and ways to enforce them, just to achieve those goals. In this sense, we will not discuss as much today as when and how much I have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution, but what path Slovenia will take in this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, good morning again! I am sure that today those who have gone to bed a little later will also wake up in this debate. This will certainly be one of the great and important days for Slovenian democracy. It would be written about in capital letters by Slovenian phantom free-of-chargers if they still existed. There will certainly be one of the most important anti-crisis measures, as there will be a number of hundreds of our citizens working in and around the stadium. The Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, considers that the President of the National Assembly, Dr Pavel Gantar, rejected the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the financing of the Stožica Sports Park project by banks in majority state ownership, disrupted the constitutional order and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that we are assessing that the President of the National Assembly is doing well, that he respects the laws, regulations and that, when there are many uncertainties and doubts, what legislators have not yet been able to write down and enforce that he is a free-thinking Democrat, he is also very successful in using the law of reason and common sense. The target of the readings at this meeting is not really Pavel Gantar, but Mayor Zoran Jankovic. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that a group of Members is abusing the National Assembly and the Institute of the President of the National Assembly for the purposes of a campaign in the City Municipality of Ljubljana. With regard to Mayor Zoran Jankovic, we have well-meaning advice: try to overcome the arguments, not by mutilating the people you associate with. You also directed a similar scenario in case of interpretation against Katarina Kresal, who was only guilty of knowing people. You want a word? [[Let's move on, thank you so much for your kindness and understanding.]] To repeat, because I was confused, you also directed a given script in case of interpretation against Katarina Kresal, who was only guilty of knowing people who were not members of the SDS. Otherwise, you are constantly trying to discredit or arouse a lack of confidence in all the institutions of this country. In doing so, you did not have any reservations to make an unwarranted accusation against the President of the State himself, the one who was elected in the direct elections. Continuous interpretations against the many ministers who have already been and certainly will be. Let's not talk about the transposition and unqualified rejection of the arbitration agreement. Because of your selfish party interests, you are prepared to burn and burn the country. It is a very famous formula or, rather, a copy of political propaganda developed by phantom media, Slovenian weekly and Express. During the pre-election period of 2008, the latter published texts with one purpose: to discredit everyone and everyone who has a common denominator or hopes to be our political opponent. We have also seen this week that there may be a very short distance from such profanity or hate speech to violent distances. Our debate today has yet another purpose. Once again, at the initiative of the SDS, we will again argue for a few weeks whether Pavel Gantar is guilty or not - in the end, the same party that caused this debate will report to the government that the coalition is dealing with itself again, instead of counter-crisis measures. These are known methods, but unfortunately they have nothing to do with the responsible management of opposition tasks. This is also part of the broader communication strategy of the opposition, and in particular the parties who propose it, who want to create in the public an impression that in a country that is governed by anyone but them, everything is upside down and everything is wrong. I also understand all this in the light of this year's elections and more in two and a half years. The methods of work are known, tested, continuously citing extraordinary meetings with the argument that new facts have been identified and that copies in client newspapers and other media related famous pre-election freemen are used as evidence. However, if the President of the National Assembly stands on the verge of such an evaluation of the National Assembly and a number of other institutions on which our statehood rests, then it is again and again wrong and the President of the Assembly must be fastened to the shameful pillar. Such sessions as they are today, and as there have been several, and there will certainly be many more, they are only moving us away from what we should give priority to. The President of the National Assembly may sometimes deserve to be played, but not because he did not agree with one of your countless extraordinary ideas, but because, as a freethinker and a Democrat, he has probably settled you too many times. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we will not support the proposal to resolve the President of the National Assembly, but we also want to change the way this high assembly works in such a way that we will devote ourselves more to the real problems of the Slovenes and the Slovenes and the less pre-electional flyiness of this party or one of the political parties. The President of the National Assembly has done nothing but really nothing that would require the first such replacement in Slovenia alone and in line with the presentation of this position will also be our vote. We're just gonna support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! From the additional explanation of the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, it was possible to understand that they wanted to replace the President of the Parliament and, more importantly, the Mayor of the Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana. The first will be decided by us here in Parliament and the second by citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Ljubljana. It is likely that other attempts will follow, perhaps following the demands for the discharge of individual presidents or the presidents of working bodies. The request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly is a continuation of what has already been seen. And to be perfectly honest, I'm expected. Interpellations, a proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Republic, calls to the President of the Government after resignation, calls to the entire Government after access. All these procedures remove obstacles and push the way to another republic of Janez Janša. Some took it literally. And so two days ago we could see a conviction worth pressuring. The reasons for today's debate are set out on two sides. Modest, short. Of course, they can also be written as proposed. Reference to Article 85 of the Constitution, which provides, inter alia, that the President of the National Assembly shall convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, if at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly so require, of course, stands and cannot be disputed. This should take full account of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, including that part which is not mentioned in the request for the discharge of the President. The request and the proposal for an emergency meeting shall state the reasons for the urgent reference, and the request for a reference shall be accompanied by material on matters to be decided by the National Assembly. And another thing that is usually forgotten or overlooked is the matter, or content, of a series of matters that are within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we would discuss everything possible, only matters under our jurisdiction. And if the President and his co-workers consider that the request is inappropriate and does not convene extraordinary meetings, you request his replacement. It is stated from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in one of these requirements that the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not contain provisions which would regulate exceptionally what may or may be the content of the requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. This means, on the one hand, that such a requirement for content may be arbitrary, but on the other hand this option also has its constitutional boundaries, since Article 85 of the Constitution, which provides the basis for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, must be interpreted in the context of constitutional, legal and commercial provisions governing the status and competence of the National Assembly. In accordance with the principle of the division of power and in accordance with the constitutionally defined role of the National Assembly, it is both possible and necessary to insist on such interpretation of the Constitution, and consequently also, of course, the Rules of Procedure allowing for the convening of regular or extraordinary meetings only on matters falling within the competence of the National Assembly. This means, on the contrary, that regular or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly cannot be convened to deal with matters which, for example, fall within the exclusive competence of other branches of government or other state bodies: Governments, courts and even less those under the jurisdiction of the Ljubljana Municipality. This last sentence has been added and all the previous sentences are from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. What functions does the National Assembly perform? They can briefly be defined as a legislative, electoral and supervisory function. The powers of the National Assembly are laid down in the Constitution and so-called small constitution of the National Assembly, this is our rules of procedure, which must be followed in a consistent manner. The President, of course, is able to be resolved if the National Assembly is not satisfied with his work. The potential for its replacement is also in the event of the creation of a new coalition. None of this is fulfilled today. The coalition is stable, but I am also convinced that there is not a majority in the National Assembly who would be dissatisfied with the work of the President. For the Group of Social Democrats, what you have written down is not sufficient reason for you to express your confidence in the President by voting. Of course, we do not deny the right to proposers to check by vote whether they have a majority in the National Assembly for their request. In doing so, the role and position of the President of the National Assembly must be respected, regardless of who is currently exercising this function. The complications concerning the inclusion of the item on discharge of the President of the National Assembly on the agenda of regular or extraordinary meetings have a clear message. It is true that the applicants have requested an extraordinary meeting, but the inclusion in the regular meeting is consistent with the Rules of Procedure and, which is also important, very logical. Why wait for an extraordinary session if we can do this on a regular basis? It would also be possible to interrupt the regular session and consider this to be an emergency. Of course, that's a possibility. But what is the message? And that is the point: an extraordinary session is wanted because it is intended to create stories, not to deal with demands and decide on them. At the end of the day, there's the emphasis. Again and again, the proponents warn us that we are dealing with ourselves. It's probably going to be like that today, maybe not today. Maybe tomorrow, in the next few days. Who are the candidates for the interpretations, the constitutional charges of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the motions for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Who are those who call to the streets - now we hear of peaceful meetings?Oh, my God! We will vote against it in the Group of Social Democrats. That's what I'm saying, even though the vote is secret! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. We are talking about this so that we can talk about something else, something more important for the country, which the President of the National Assembly prevented when he stood up to the Constitution. In order to be able to talk about financing investments by state banks that are risky in terms of asset recovery and where there is a risk that funds will ever be recovered, it is roughly the same as in the case of Greece. At a time when data were received on the day that Slovenia crashed 20 cities on the competitiveness scale, the government supports the political financing of projects such as the Stožice project. The purpose of the delay with reference to this extraordinary meeting was to prevent parliamentary debate and decision-making until the financing of this project, which would never be reimbursed by state banks, is ensured. And the consequences will be borne by all taxpayers. We are talking about discharge today because the President of the National Assembly is clearly interpreting parliamentary democracy and presenting, in his own way, and in that interpretation trying to suppress the democratic parliamentary debate and it goes even through the Constitution. In parliamentary democracy, however, it is a place of dialogue in the National Assembly. It is not necessary to be a philosopher, nor a sociologist, to understand what happens when a debate in Parliament is limited and limited and if it is done for the protection of individual political boats. Over the past year, we have witnessed several times that the rule of law applies to one another, but not to the other, that one is subject to one rule in the courts, to the other. For some, the court is able to decide on the same day, while others are waiting for the right of flight and flight in the same case. In some inspections, it works at light speed; in others, it does not have the authority to act. Some of the allegations of serious crimes have been in police drawers for years, allegedly because there are not enough police officers. Others, if they are members of the current opposition, will even be convicted before those who initiate them explain what is actually the subject of the indictment. And in these cases, the police seem to have had enough. And what is most perverse is that those who establish such a situation with politically targeted police procedures against individuals, especially the opposition, against virtually all ministers and the former Prime Minister, want to prove to us in these politically guided procedures how the rule of law applies to all equally. It's really fucked up. At the same time, a number of investigations are carried out in procedures where there are no elements to the offence. On the other hand, there remains an intact and untouchable suspect of many crimes. And that's just because the political godfather of the ruling coalition. Moreover, the amendment of the law on additional funds for the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality was made during the worst economic crisis and at a time when other municipalities in many areas are being stricken. Parliament was until recently the only institution where, to some extent, we were all the same. And the President of the National Assembly first among the same, no less and no less in the service of the people and democracy, not in the service of capital or economic political bots, which has been happening for the past two years. Article 85 of the Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall convene an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the Members so require. This provision cannot be derogated from by any lower legal act, not by law, not by the Rules of Procedure, nor by any interpretation of any service, but at least by an authoritarian decision by the President of the National Assembly. The President also violated Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that an extraordinary meeting should be convened no later than 15 days. However, the number of cases in the last year shows that the arrogance and intolerance expressed by the President of the National Assembly, in particular to representatives of the opposition species, is increasing. The MPs were so prevented from knowing what the police were doing in this building on a Sunday when they entered it because of an alleged bomb. Shortly thereafter, a police investigation into the temple of democracy took place on the basis of a decree which did not meet the formal conditions for such an investigation. In the package of more than 60 economic measures submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the applicant had a few minutes to present. At a time when Slovenia had hit 20 cities on the competitiveness scale in a year, at a time when the government refused to listen to the opposition's warnings when it did not accept any of the many proposals that we have tabled in the last year. Now that it's too late, it's legal. At a time when all domestic and politically motivated credit approval should be taken care of, which can only prevent transparency, we see in Parliament that even the debate on this is not allowed. The data is being hidden, one of its basic functions is being abandoned to Parliament. It is probably not too much to point out that the problems faced by Greece are due to concealment and also to data alignment. The debate that we have requested to finance the stadium of the Cologne, and in particular the proposed decisions that have been taken to ensure control of decisions that are obviously taking place even beyond the formal procedures in force and the provisions in force of the laws, and the decisions that we have proposed regarding the impossible, even the slavery situation of the workers who built this monument in winter in impossible circumstances and were made known to the public by the media. Such a debate, ladies and gentlemen, and such decisions are undoubtedly in the public interest. And they have a place in this House for a number of reasons. This is currently the largest project in the country, which is not the most important for the country. Why should it therefore be financed by state banks which deny funding to specific economic projects? Certainly, therefore, there are no motives at the forefront of the banking sector, or a number of commercial banks, even one state bank, would not withdraw from the financing. Jankovic's Stožice Stadium is more expensive than comparable projects across Europe. Why? And why would a more expensive project be financed? Funding takes place at a time when the economy is moaning and falling in one part. We are talking about 150 million euros, which is half of Slovenia's contribution to Greece or once again as much as Ljubljana's debt has increased during the mayor's mayor's mayor's term. The project itself will not bring new jobs, new added value, on which the further development of Slovenia depends. It brings enormous costs for operation and operation, which will burden all taxpayers. Given the significant increase in the value of investments from the start, however, the risk for state banks is that this money will never be reimbursed largely. All taxpayers will have to pay for the rehabilitation. At this point, I think it is right to point out that the project was initially set up in accordance with public-private partnership legislation. Remember - the city was looking for a private partner, the city council adopted the Public-Private Partnership Act for the implementation of the multi-purpose football stadium project and the accompanying facility with its own infrastructure. He's out of his land. However, the private investor should, in accordance with Article 3 of this Act, which states: "the private partner will fully ensure the financing of the project," - take care of this. And there's nothing wrong with that. The financing of the project should therefore be fully provided for by the private partner. At that time, this contract was to be signed below EUR 100 million. Later, she said she'd doubled if she hadn't even tripled. I guess things got complicated. The project's been compromised. He was obviously ill-prepared. The information provided to the public suggests that the financial resolution of the succession of investments is likely to burden taxpayers through the rehabilitation of banks. And what if it's not a place in this National Assembly. We are talking about 50, 100 or even 150 million euros. Here in this National Assembly we have witnessed things where there were significantly lower values, and the debate has been held for several hours. And no one disputed that the city was in the National Assembly. However, when it comes to deciding whether it is possible to prevent decisions that will burden all taxpayers, there should be no place in the debate in this National Assembly. This cannot be understood, and the President of the National Assembly is mistaken. I'm sorry. And if all of this is the burden of a private investor under this act, why is the mayor involved? Why is the mayor calling banks and looking for credit? Why is politics, a high, ruling policy involved in this story? And isn't it a town in the National Assembly to talk about it and once and for all expel parastata from these institutions? There are therefore more than enough reasons for parliamentary consideration. There were also more than enough reasons to make decisions to prevent unnecessary damage. The State banks would probably not have allowed themselves into a pre-priced project that could never recover the funds they have invested, and they would have been launched at a time when the government, second after second, would have deleted important infrastructure projects, probably from political movements. From a clear signal of political power. You know, this signal is enough for a high political representative to appear on such a project and commend how things work out. There's no other way. In this case, we have witnessed many such signals. Therefore, during this period the resources of the Government for the development axes, for the economic centres, shall be deducted from the resolution on national programmes. Resources for investing in broader social and municipal infrastructure are being deleted. And that's because there's no money. However, the State banks will obviously, if they have not already done so, finance the project in the Colossae, obviously not with economic motives. It is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the only reason is political. Politics, the ruling policy has obviously given a very clear signal in this case due to the return of services to its supporter. And according to some information, the postponement of the President of the National Assembly was precisely intended for decisions on the financing of this project to be taken at the level of the State banks before the debate in the National Assembly was held. It is therefore necessary to ask in whose interest the President of the National Assembly is acting and who he represents and represents, to whom he feels responsibility - to the public, Members and Members of Parliament, citizens. This institution is increasingly becoming a tool of the political-economic lobby of the para-state, which should never and never have gained room in Parliament. At the election, the president of the National Assembly said that we would save everything in this National Assembly, but not with words. We trusted him a lot. Rather than in two years, the President has failed in these words. That's why it's time for the coalition to find another president. We will support the resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Two days after SDS leader Janez Janša announced at the press conference, SDS members, together with colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, formally proposed the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Paul Gantar. "The President of the National Assembly must be replaced because he abused: the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." To date, perhaps the shortest explanation of any of their proposals or requests has been supplemented by the addition of President Janez Janša, since Gantar is supposed to act contrary to current practice. And what did President Gantar do that would have to be replaced immediately? He did not agree with the SDS request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss the financing of the Stožice Sport Park project by banks owned by the majority of the state. In explaining the proposal to dismiss the President of Parliament, they also stated that he did not wish to call an extraordinary session just to prevent a debate on this issue. Although some way of dealing with the VISAC committee last week, it did take place and pointed to the absurdity and incomprehensibility of the proposal. In the Group of Members, we really believe that President Gantar has done the right thing and that the debate must really be stopped, because otherwise Parliament will turn into an even worse fair, where everyone can talk about everything that comes to mind. Even though this would involve us in a private initiative, the planned lending of a consortium of Slovenian banks, which has not yet been realized. So we're going to stick our noses in the decisions of the bank later in the National Assembly, even though we don't have, for example, just analysis, data and the like? And let me immediately reject the argument that this is the same as in cases of so-called Taiwanese loans for ownership. It's not the same, it's not the same. At that time, we proposed that state guarantees should not be made to the banks provided by the State for such purposes. And in doing so, in our opinion, right, because this has been interrupted by a harmful and immoral deal for a number of Schrot and Bavčar-type tycoons, which has also been confirmed by investigative procedures where major injuries have been detected. Let me also say modestly in this regard that it is sad that these people today participate in some celebrations where they can sing and speak and give Leviathans to all in a row, only some self-critical assessments of their own actions cannot be made. And they throw a very bad light at such celebrations. But let's go back to President Gantar's decision. Why this extraordinary meeting has not been convened by the President of Gantar to the public, and he has, in particular, explained to the SDS Members several times. But let's do it again. Because, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, this is not a matter that would be within the competence of the National Assembly. If the SDS requirements of Gantar were to be met and an extraordinary session on this subject, Members would essentially discuss a private project where the state has not invested a single cent so far. I repeat, the state has not even invested the centre in the Stožice project. Not the euro, not the stadium, not the hall, not the commercial part. Well, maybe this is more to be imagined than anything else. If I repeat Gantar's business, how will a private company that builds a shopping centre get credit, the National Assembly cannot discuss it. There's nothing to add to that. However, the National Assembly cannot be against the complainant and the judge on every private matter. And that could be done, but not for SDS. When President Gantar announced that the SDS proposal and the Slovenian national parties for their own settlement would be included in the regular May meeting of the assembly, the SDS asked that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly should be convened without justification. Why is it remarkable that, if we can discuss this at a regular session, Mr Tanko, the SDS Member's Leader, despite the calls made at the College's meeting, has not explained it? However, this was done much earlier by his President, Janez Janša, who said freely at the already mentioned press conference that the requirement for the discharge of Gantar is therefore the only option. I quote: "The only way and only way to discuss the problem we wanted to discuss in an extraordinary session." This is also evident today, for we speak little of Gantar. We are talking much more about Stožice, Jankovic and what the problem should be. So it is another apparent abuse of the National Assembly. After we have processed not only the coalition and the government at extraordinary meetings, but the President of the Republic, the whole judiciary, the anti-corruption commission, indirectly, the Constitutional Court by contesting the enforcement of their decisions on the deleted. Not to mention the appointment of the Russian ambassador, by the way, they pushed the president of the National Assembly into their mill. Where such extreme and excessive acts lead, it has proved to be the last student, student protests. After the organizers lured Slovenian youth into the streets, they demagogically treated them with falsehoods and exaggerations, encouraged hatred and rebellion at all costs, at the moment when things got out of hand, quietly withdrew and hid them for objective irresponsibility, and cowardly distanced themselves from the matter, childish and irresponsible. With many moves, the SDS is no different. They call for extraordinary sessions. They destroy authority, create emergency situations in such critical and critical times. They sow hatred and unrest and even invite people to the streets. I hope that days ago they only received a sobering dose when it was shown where extremism, hatred, and irresponsible behavior lead. And all this with one purpose: to come and conquer power. Well, let me take another look. Is it possible that President Paul Gantar, in view of the current situation, has earned revenge from John Janša because he has made too clear and outspoken mention of the harmfulness of Janša - Sanader’s agreement and the harmfulness and extent of his consent to resolve the problem in the Hague court? Well, let's go back. Today, we will not primarily discuss Gantar's alleged unconstitutional leadership of the National Assembly. But above all, as has been foretold and seen since the opening thoughts, the Ljubljana Mayor and the Stožice. If SDS Members remain here at all, in the Chamber, and do not, as in the debate on the arbitration agreement, avoid liability and leave the Chamber. This is precisely the possibility that the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, has been blackmailing when the President of Gantar has placed the matter in a regular session, as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow. But we're gonna be talking about this all day today, almost seven hours. And not just that. All parliamentary groups, even the SNS, supported the proposal that President Gantar be given the opportunity to defend himself. Only Tanko and the SDS, who have repeatedly complained that they are being restricted to the debate and thus cannot tell him everything they would like, clearly do not recognise these rights of defence when they ask themselves: "Where does the Rules of Procedure say that, as with the applicants of the discharge, is the time for explanations and answers to the allegations in the indictment and the debate of the defendants?" There is no point in talking about how the SDS is turning this Parliament into a hostage and a tool of its political interests. The statistics of the extraordinary meetings itself, which the SDS directly or indirectly requested, relying on the constitutional provision that the President should convene an extraordinary meeting, if a third of Members so require, are sufficiently eloquent. By our count, we had 23 extraordinary meetings at 17 regular meetings and half of them were called upon to do so. The President of Gantar rejected only two SDS requests for extraordinary meetings. As already mentioned, Mr Stožica or the alleged clienteleism of Mayor Jankovic and others about the abuse of the police for political purposes, as requested by SNS leader Zmago Jelinčič for criminal investigations against members of his party. In doing so, the SDS has requested and, with the exception of some exceptions, has also received more than 30 extraordinary meetings of the committees and commissions of the National Assembly. With the continued political pressure of one party on the work of Parliament, which we have not yet witnessed in 20 years, there is no question. It is probably not necessary to assume that one of the main political objectives of the SDS in the time leading up to the local elections is to defile Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic as much as possible in public. This is illustrated by the plaza of readings and accusations that SDS Members repeat at his expense on every possible occasion. All funds are used and used for this black and harsh pre-election propaganda, from questions sent to the commission of inquiry, which, at the request of the SDS, investigates the suspicion of political corruption in the construction of state money. In particular, the president of this commission, SDS Member Alenka Jeraj, is making an incredible effort, but apparently with considerable success, to find something burdensome against Jankovic alone from many of the witnesses' hearings. While the other matters, five others are still within the work of this Commission, they remain untouchable. For example, not even a sentence has been said about the construction of the Paediatric Clinic. This pre-election strategy of the SDS also includes today's forced debate. The thing about individual parties is how they prepare for elections. They can organize interviews, public tribunals, even demonstrations. But in this case it is wrong to use the National Assembly for propaganda. Or in other words. The SDS, through the abuse of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is running a pre-election campaign, as has already been said, against the mayor of the capital, which is paid in some way by all taxpayers. The president of the National Assembly, Pavel Gantar, is certainly not a man who could be shown the self - control of the National Assembly. On the contrary. He always checks all his decisions with his professional services and associates. He's a legalist. And it doesn't occur to him to do his homework. This has also been the case with references to extraordinary sessions and other specific requirements of the largest opposition party that exploits the fact that it has more than a quarter of its Members. Moreover, with great patience, in our view, it bears all possible flies and transfers of opposition Members. It is many times - we must say so - even stricter to us coalition MPs. Even the most important to the Members of their own party, Zares. Therefore, it would be better to expect praise from the opposition for such conduct rather than from requests for relief. Let us repeat, such as to refresh the memory, the speech of the President of the State, Dr. Danil Türk on a constitutional charge. That's when he laid two of us on our hearts. He said, "We must treat the country with care." And also, "If we don't respect our own institutions, let's not expect to be respected by others." And the President of the National Assembly is an institution. It is our institution, it is an institution of Members and Members, and it is therefore worthy of respect. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really believe that there are no reasons for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, and we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. There's more than one reason. The Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly rejected the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of qualified applicants, highlights the principle of division of power and the constitutionally defined role of the National Assembly. We all know that the principle of the division of power stems from historical experience, that the levers of power and decision must be dispersed or that the judicial, legislative and executive powers must be separated. This principle is still one of the cornerstones of modern democracy today. In accordance with this principle or the principle of brake and balance, each of these branches has its own responsibilities and responsibilities. The Legislative and Legal Service, acting by means of constitutional legislative and commercial provisions, has decided that the appointment of a regular or extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly shall be permitted only on matters under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. On the contrary, it is not possible to refer to regular or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly for matters which are under the exclusive competence of other powers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see no reason why the interpretation of the Legislative and Legal Service, that the proposed extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly by content does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, would not be respected. We ourselves have often found ourselves in a situation where the opinion of the professional services of the National Assembly was not the best of year’s time or was an obstacle to our desired course. However, if we start to question anyone who does not share our opinion and our wishes, and always believes only in our own right, then we will soon be able to question the foundations of democracy and the self-government state. Such thinking is the Slovenian human party abroad. The President of the National Assembly therefore acted in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On the other hand, probably a number of us Members are dissatisfied with the work of a large number of Presidents, including the working body of the mother, and probably the President of the National Assembly himself. However, we feel that this is not sufficient reason for their relief or relief. In our opinion, the difficulty of the discussions in the National Assembly, which we have already made publicly, should be in solving the serious economic and financial problems in the Republic of Slovenia, which are already principles of the social situation of Slovenian people. However, the lack of these discussions and proposals is not the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, but of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is not preparing such proposals in our view in a timely and sufficiently development-oriented manner. As we say, we will not support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Joško Godec has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u18	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. President of the National Assembly Dr. Pavel Gantar! The position of the Democratic Party of Retired Members' Group on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly is as follows. In opening, let me say that in the DeSUS Group we note that there are still several people on the list of political discredits of members of this mandate who may still be in line in the ring, given the political strength and size. Of course, this ring serves as a tool for certain specific political options in preventing an elective body for expression of belonging. Unfortunately, the performances that voters receive on the basis of such and similar assessments that we have witnessed in this mandate are mostly a smoke screen for something else. But they don't always reflect the truth and the real facts. Such passages for the upcoming referendum and local elections, or in general, have some influence. However, they are not regular cases where they result in the opposite effect as desired. As regards the specific proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, the opinion of the Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners is as follows: The President of the National Assembly has clearly defined functions and powers under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Among other things, it also convenes meetings of the National Assembly, regular and extraordinary. Whether a specific requirement is to be placed on the agenda or whether an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is to be convened, its decision cannot be based solely on its discretion. So arbitration, when it relates to the fulfilment of the conditions of the proposed case for consideration at the plenary session. In doing so, of course, it is not enough, according to our assessment, to meet the requirement of sufficient numerical support for the proposal for the inclusion of a matter in a meeting. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the conditions of eligibility or the substantive competence of the National Assembly are met to deal with and decide on a particular matter. If that were not the case, Members would sit in Parliament's seats every day and discuss these matters which are the subject of debate. Excuse me, in advance, at the everyday blacksmith's inn. In order not to allow the President to see his expertise in assessing the appropriateness of the proposal for the inclusion of individual requests in the plenary session, the expert services of the National Assembly shall be those who examine the proposals in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the business possibilities and from a legislative technical point of view. We trust in the expertise of the competent services in the DeSUS Group and do not doubt the correctness of their opinions. And our assessment is that, in a particular case, the President of the National Assembly acted correctly because he based his decision on a well-founded and reasoned opinion of the professional services. I would add, however, that Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners are pleased with the work of the President of the House. We estimate that the work of the National Assembly under his wing is going on properly, and we also greatly appreciate his tolerance, which has also been shown in situations where many of us would react differently. On behalf of all Members of our Group, I express my support for our President, Dr Paul Gantar, and continue to wish him much success in running the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly! In the Slovenian National Party, as co-signers of the proposal or requests for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, we justify our proposal on three sets of evidences or reasons. First, it is our request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 30 March 2010. So a request signed by the 31 members of the opposition parties of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party regarding the treatment of the financing of the Stožica Sports Park project by the banks of the majority in state ownership at the time of the worst credit crunch in the Republic of Slovenia. The President rejected the request in writing in April. However, he rejected it orally at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on the grounds that the proposed topic should not be substantively suited to the conditions for consideration at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, even though we have justified and explained the complexity and depth of the construction of the Sports Trade Project of the Sožica. Although all Slovenia is informed through the media about the problems and even tragic events related to activities and the construction of that project alone, these are obvious dupliosis and well-founded breaches of financial legislation. Which time will soon show. Above all, the obvious grave violations of labour law, which have been the most obvious in the Slovenian National Party. Such violations exceed all the limits of acceptable civilised social standards in the construction of this project or facility. For all the Slovenes and Slovenes are facing the present exploitation, the extorting of workers, which goes beyond the borders of the construction site itself and receives sad signs for the Slovenian people of unacceptable neoliberalism, the cruelest capitalism of exploitation and at the same time a humanitarian national disgrace for all of us. Blinding before that means at the same time endorsing the unacceptable acceptance of such shameful work by employers. And that is what we wanted to talk about and show the public that, as responsible representatives of the Slovenian people, we do not accept such action, we reject it as a non-civilised act. And right here, Mr. President, we can't understand you. It's like we want the truth not to be exposed or revealed. It's as if you're quietly approving all this social humanitarian tragedy that's happening to all of us. Our request, as well as purely formal violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Our request for a reference has been submitted in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It therefore fulfilled all the conditions for reference and consideration of the proposed content. You have rejected this from us for unknown reasons, and therefore we rightly understand your doing so as willfully and also discriminatingly. It is quite clear that you have also violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically Article 85, which defines, defines the meetings of the National Assembly and in one indent expressly states that the President of the National Assembly must convene an extraordinary meeting if a quarter of the members of the National Assembly so require. At the same time, you have violated Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which also sets this right of one quarter of all Members of the National Assembly and even sets a deadline for a reference, which is 15 days after the request was made. With this you have violated the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by your will put yourself on the law, on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which no citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can and cannot afford. The way in which the President works in the leadership of the National Assembly, I will also touch on this further - we consider it to be actually some kind of privatisation for a moment. The latter do not respect the Rules of Procedure, the laws and the Constitution. His actions, which can also be described as despotic sometimes, are likely to stem from the thought that he is allowed exactly everything as a member of the ruling coalition. They cannot allow him the complete negation of democracy and democratic processes. Mr Gantar was himself once a great advocate of democracy and freedom when he was in opposition, but today we would like to reintroduce the appearance of Article 133 of the former SFRJ Code. It's so called, as you remember the verbal delicacy of spoken words. Secondly, we also acknowledge to the President of the Slovenian National Party the unacceptable conduct in the event of the arrival of police officers in the premises of the National Assembly and the investigation at the premises of the Slovenian National Party's Parliament, the arrest of our President, by the premises of the National Assembly of Armed Police. This was the worst form of violation of the house order, although you, the president, claimed that the police did everything in accordance with the law, although the house order strictly prohibits the introduction of weapons into the premises of the National Assembly. Even in the courts the police must put down/deliver arms, and there obviously the house order respects, and in this National Assembly there is a house order in such cases a thing that individuals can judge in their own way. The person would also understand if there were a legitimate threat and suspicion for the police that the lives of other or police officers could be endangered in the investigation of the premises of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group or the arrests of Members and ministers. For such a precedent, no one has taken any responsibility and no one can even imagine what this could mean for Slovenian democracy in the future. And the third time. In the Slovenian National Party, you see many times the unacceptable discriminatory attitude towards us members of the opposition, the unacceptable way in which you work and your reactions in the debates of members of the opposition parties, and in particular some members of the Slovenian National Party. First of all, I mean interfering with the debate on the views of some members of the opposition parties. It is true that these cases do not involve purely legal and formal infringements, legal infringements, commercial infringements. More or less, infringements of the rules of procedure for the management of meetings or of the culture itself and the fair and acceptable manner of management and equal treatment of all Members of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, your distinction is all too obvious that sometimes we already know in advance and expect you to intervene and interrupt speakers. Such an interruption in comments on the views of some Members has been far too much in the past. Despite our opposition to such doing, you are stubbornly continuing this management practice, and on this occasion, Mr President, I call on you publicly, and I also ask that in the event that the vote for you comes out favourably, I have no doubt that you will not, in the future, weigh such a way of leading or more tolerantly allowing the opposition Members to express their views in an undisturbed manner. Dear Mr. President! In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot even mention your understanding of the so-called hate speech, which causes many times a controversial atmosphere in this Chamber, an uncomfortable atmosphere. For in this also ye share many debaters among those who can afford more in the choice of words. But you warn, comment, and even interrupt others about the same violations. True, rhetoric and choice of words can be very different, and we are different. One, in particular, as you know, Members of the Slovenian National Party sometimes say something without hair on our tongue. Maybe there's something too fast sometimes. But some of you are skilled at howling words into a cellophane, in an arranged rhetoric. In fact, worse insults, even worse hate speech, the promotion of intolerance in this hall may be behind this cellophane, and that is not acceptable. So if we say something so critical to all the Slovenian people with understandable words, it can be an hate speech. It's an easy speech that excites impatience. It could be an insult. However, if we turn the matter into a cellophane, we should look at it in sync with ten subordinates and we smile cynically and it will turn out to be a very nice speech. In fact, you may have offended many of us. That's all there is to it. I won't mention it. Some cases, Mr President, when you interrupted me, because the position or content of my position did not correspond to your understanding of the content or issue. I don't blame you, but you have a view of a lot of things like this, and I have a little bit different. But you also need to understand that we are actually 90 different people here. We look at things differently. And it is you who are stressing tolerance, understanding of other thinkers, understanding minorities, understanding vulnerable groups of the population, adopting laws in this sense, justifying them as understanding, to what, to us politically differently thinking and also expressing, but sometimes you have just that kind of - as you might say - discriminatory attitude. Pretty aggressive sometimes, even. That way I won't count the cases when you interrupted me. In the future, I'll do my best, and I'll keep an eye on the words, wrap them up a little bit in the cellophane to make them look better. And you, too - I hope - have a little more patience, because, Mr President, we do not actually have any problems. I don't know -- that's interesting -- they're running this thing a lot smoother. Perhaps a little more routine with practice, and you too will get it. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. As a proponent? You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much. First, I must comment or answer some of the things that have been said and that do not. First of all, the President of the National Assembly, in his more moralistic speech on defence than those arguments on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure used in the work of the National Assembly, said that he always respected the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of 15 December 2008, when we tabled a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which would deal with two laws, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act and the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. And here the Legislative and Legal Service has stated that it is necessary to take into account in such references that it is right to request the convening of an extraordinary meeting one of the basic tools that the opposition or political minority in the National Assembly has in its parliamentary activities. They further stated that this requirement of the opposition met all the formal reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting. Furthermore, in the event of an extraordinary meeting, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular the Constitution, do not require that an extraordinary meeting be held on whether the proposal is an urgent procedure. Notwithstanding the short deadline for the emergency meeting, it is in fact possible to hold an extraordinary meeting to discuss the draft law under Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the Legislative and Legal Service wrote: In our opinion, these matters must be carried out in such a way as not to impede or even prevent the implementation of the requirements for the convening of an extraordinary meeting, for which all the conditions arising from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met. This meeting was not called to order. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the honourable President of the National Assembly, is quite clear. That was, I think, the first request we submitted for the convening of an extraordinary session. And the first request was eliminated by the President of the National Assembly. He rejected it and thus laid the groundwork for all further work. Secondly, and as regards this request for an extraordinary meeting, I would like to remind you, Madam President of the National Assembly, that on 11 May, on the basis of our request, you have placed two of our requirements under 1.b in the meeting of the College for a request to convene an extraordinary meeting for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Two hours after the appeal, the 62nd meeting of the College came in. But the reasons haven't changed. This is said to have been the case, according to the President, who ordered this reference by the College, that the requirements for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss the discharge of the President of the National Assembly have been met. Under point 1.b, nothing has changed in two hours. And the president of the National Assembly cancelled the meeting. And today we are discussing this item in the context of this meeting or the regular meeting of the National Assembly. I would also like to remind you that we also have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which should be followed, since the technical procedure for conducting meetings is prescribed here, for the conduct of all those who participate in the work of the National Assembly. Today, Madam President, we have had a case when the 9th-hour College was convened and a proposal was tabled at 9 a.m. and 5 minutes to place the point on an extraordinary meeting that will be convened. However, if you are reading the Rules of Procedure, a reference should be made when it is not an emergency procedure. Or when we're not talking about setting the time, five days before the meeting, not five minutes after the beginning of the session, but five days before the meeting. And today, the president of the National Assembly said very simply at the College, vehemently: "That is my decision. As in many other cases." We have been informed here that we are citing many things and many demands, interpretations. We're calling in extraordinary sessions. Today we have had a case when we set up an extraordinary meeting and when Mr Kontic first proposed or made a request for an extraordinary meeting, a coalition member. Then the government came with its proposal for an extraordinary session. Then came two other first-signed members of the coalition with a request for an extraordinary meeting. And there, in the meantime, was our proposal to discuss some of the issues that had arisen following the call for an arbitration agreement referendum. Five, six requests were tabled by the coalition for this meeting at the same time. Some even without a foundation. The coalition is also very speaking in some way about what the opposition is doing in this National Assembly. The opposition shall have its role, its task and carry out this task in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is not clear, however, why the coalition convenes extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or urgent meetings of working bodies. This is difficult to explain because they are so well organised and they work so well. A third of the commission of inquiry within this mandate was ordered by a coalition, designated at the request of a coalition. Half of the meetings of the National Assembly are called upon by the coalition or government. Why? There's been a lot of evidence here before. Also, in view of the fact that both coalitions with these demands and/or opposition with these requirements, which we are putting against, such as interpretations, emergency meetings, emergency meetings, we are blocking the work of the National Assembly. On the contrary. We requested a debate in December 2008 on certain matters and requirements in the field of finance, the Income Act, the Law on the income of legal persons. Then we have a law on co-financing investments and so on, December 2008, and these two laws have been rejected twice or three times in this procedure by the National Assembly. Now the government has come with laws of urgency with the same content. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, the opposition does not interfere with the work of the National Assembly. With our proposals, we wanted these laws to be dealt with in a timely manner, when there were some capital in the accounts of economic operators, independent entrepreneurs. Now that it's gone, they don't need any more reliefs, or they're co-financed by subsidies, investments and so on. That is why Slovenia has, in fact, taken the fifth place between the Eastern European countries after competitiveness among the countries to be measured. We have Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian. This is a reflection of this effectiveness and of this rejection of these matters. I must say, the National Assembly would not discuss loans for the first time. Not about credits to companies. Nor is it about the lending policy offered by the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have already had these discussions in the National Assembly and that the Bank of Slovenia is by law the one who is obliged to report to the State on the state of affairs on policy issues. We have given an example of the largest investment in the country, how things are going. It's public. But for this, the National Assembly is also responsible for policies in specific areas. In order to monitor policies in specific areas, the National Assembly shall have established working bodies accompanying these matters. For financial purposes, we have a Committee on Finance, we have a Commission on Budgetary Control to implement the budget, we have a Commission on Human Rights on petitions, we have an Environment Committee on Transport and so on. All policies can be monitored in these areas. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have they found one restriction, respected President of the National Assembly, regarding the policy or situation in any field. One limit is not in this book. And the president of the National Assembly takes the right and says it's not under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. All policies that take place in the country are within the competence of the National Assembly. And one more thing. You know, if we are looking at the previous and current mandate comparatively, then I am actually interested in what we have in the National Assembly with policy, for example, the Furlania-Julia Region or the Republic of Italy in the planning of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. This was a request signed by Dr. Gantar and we are dealing with cross-border matters. Slovenia will act or act as an interested country. Investment policy, labour law, payment policy, financing, credit and so on in the Republic of Slovenia is the responsibility of the National Assembly. But there were no restrictions on that debate and it could be realized because the first-signed Member of the Gantar was in the previous term. However, in this mandate, we cannot and must not talk about our requirements. By the way, since you have studied these matters so thoroughly, I would remind you that the meeting on 10 December 2008 was not convened, which I spoke about earlier and is supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. It was only in the second attempt that the meeting of the National Assembly was convened when we considered Mr Wygle's statements. That we had to file a request for a debate on Ultra three times. It is said, in addition to Wygle, Mr Golobič, a member of the party Zares, who was greatly protected by the President and was not finally clear on the concept of "clientism". This was then the last request we had to eliminate. In so doing, I would like to say that the request for Contingency has not been made in spite of the two requirements tabled. And you haven't called twice, you've ordered a meeting to discuss the alleged abuse of the police for political purposes. In short, there has been a great deal of complacency, just for the plenary sessions of the National Assembly. And that's impossible to argue if I'm reading the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. Police, surveillance or discussion of police policies or the use of police, police abuses, are likely to fall within the competence of the National Assembly. If it falls within the competence of the National Assembly, for example, the debate on whether the Attorney General got involved in the work and suggested to a police officer how to lead a matter through - I don't know, at least that's how it was detected - or whether it was in the Berglund case, then it is probably also a policy in the area of financing under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, Mrs Zalokar. That's what it's meant to be. Even more so than what's going on inside an institution. That's an interinstitutional problem. And so on. In short, there are a lot of restrictions on these matters in dealing with the points required by members of the opposition parties. In addition to the fact that amendments are not allowed to be made to be declared as diametrically opposite, where, by the way, there is not one word in the Rules of Procedure on the diametric opposite. And with this, the President shall make a sovereign decision whether or not a matter will be discussed and voted on. It prevents the amendment from being tabled, thereby encroaching on the right of Members of the National Assembly and so on. We have also once called on the President of the National Assembly to resign. He knows exactly when it was. And since he did not give up on the case that I would be able to deal with later on, he also covered the statements of his colleagues, what their conduct would be if Mr Golobič did, in fact, cover and define the situation in this area. Relation to certain practices, to disguises, to working methods and so on. These are basic matters relating to the relationship to certain types of acts which are at issue. There may also be penalties related to clientism, which cover up certain cases. And if this is covered by the President of the National Assembly with his authority, then it means that we cannot expect any status or the image of the National Assembly in public. Yesterday, by the way, a triumvirate meeting was held yesterday, and the National Assembly condemned it for discussing some of the issues, as the main source, allegedly the problems that happened on the street in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u23	The president of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try to comment on some of the things that have been given in the presentation of the views and in the debate. Of course, I'm not going to go into any petty arguments and readings. I think that this position of President of the State also belongs to her being a little masculine and not dealing with all the petty things and the little squabbles. I'll give some explanations, some additional findings or whatever, to understand my behavior. At the same time, at the beginning, I would like to say that I am, in some way, offended and disappointed, because obviously I am not the main point of my point, because, in fact, in the debate on my resolution, there is mainly other issues, particularly the stadium, Ljubljana, Jankovic or whatever. As for the obvious, which was that I didn't put the request for my discharge at an extraordinary meeting, let me say, I think it's the date that it's between the College, I think on Tuesday, 7. 5. 2010, there's been a request for a resolution. When I got it, of course, I immediately placed it on the agenda of the regular May session. I suppose that's why she came in at this time so that she could still be included in this regular session. And I think that as a proposaler like all of us are interested if such a point comes to pass, it is also on the agenda of the regular session. I informed and informed the College on the spot. I said that I would put on the agenda of the sitting, and that was without a vote against what I would say - approval or consent. That's the first thing. Then came the request for an extraordinary session. And now imagine, we already have a call for a regular session at which is the point of discharge of the President of the National Assembly. And then there comes a call for an extraordinary session and I call an extraordinary session with the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. I think you could really replace me. Because we'd have two sessions, two references sitting with the same point. The deadline for the emergency meeting shall be 26 May. Today, May 21st, we are considering a proposal to extend the extraordinary meeting. Now, if you don't understand this, rationally, logically, rationally, intelligently, if we don't understand this, then if you disagree with this perfectly normal, logical action of the President of the National Assembly and the College, then the College and perhaps the President of the National Assembly should be replaced. Clearly, there has been an attempted abuse of the institution of an extraordinary meeting for which there is no need to invoke at the same time. Nor were the reasons given for the convening of an extraordinary meeting, which, in the second paragraph of Article 58, may be convened by the President of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government or at a decision of the College where matters cannot be postponed and cannot be placed on the agenda of the regular meeting in time. The regular session was convened at this exact point. So, what should the president of the National Assembly do? Please. That's the first thing. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as regards investment, is therefore the preparation of the material for the meeting and the classification of the points at the meeting is not mandatory nor necessary. The legislative procedure shall be known how the experts verify the laws and, if they meet these formal conditions and so on, move on. When it comes to points that are substantive, which have certain doubts or doubts as to whether or not they fulfil the conditions which relate mainly to the content and competence of the members of the National Assembly, then, of course, he also requests the assistance of the Legislative and Legal Service and he informs me. I have to admit, in principle, legal and legal work. I can take this opinion into account, I can't take it into account. As a rule, I shall take it into account and order and request those who have called or given such a point or meeting to correct such a proposal and such a point or such content in the light of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. And that's normal, logical behavior. I think, as I mentioned earlier, that it is very important that the National Assembly is as a system of power-sharing, that it is subject to the Constitution and the law itself and cannot work past them. It is now clear to me that I have called for a debate to prevent a debate on an investment in Ljubljana, but that I have called for a debate on the construction of terminals in the Gulf of Markets. By the way, I remember well that I had to complete this request for an extraordinary meeting, to complete the conclusions, to correct the matter. That's the first thing. I remember that well. Second thing. Of course, I did not convene a meeting and we did not convene a meeting on the terminal in the Gulf of Markets. On the other hand, we would say to the Slovenian Government that we have proposed, discussed and recommended that, in relation to the construction of the planned terminals in the Gulf of Markets, we use its political and other powers and that we use the instruments provided by the Directive on the cross-border assessment of environmental impacts and the Espoo Convention on the cross-border assessment of environmental impacts, so that the use of these two instruments to assess the cross-border impact on the environment of these two terminals on Slovenia should be considered, in this regard, that I have to go into the so-called consent procedure. It wasn't that easy to achieve. But I also remember the meetings of the Committee on Environment and Space and also of the session itself, which was very constructive and, finally, we have adopted the amended conclusions of the coalition, including the opposition, coalitions and government, here. I think with all the voices. And that this was a good thing - in my opinion - and this story continued to take place firmly and formed an interdepartmental group, a request was made for a cross-border impact assessment, and things are happening and so on. This really has nothing to do with just investing in the Gulf of Markets, so that the National Assembly decides in advance that the investment is poor or not. We can reasonably assume when it has serious consequences. But we didn't make that decision, like in your paper for the convocation of a session in the Cologne, where you already know in advance that this is a wrong investment. How? What geniuses are in the back to know that? As far as unequal criteria are concerned. I must say, I will never deny this possibility that when a person misjudges that he makes a mistake on one side or on the other, even on the side of a coalition. Sometimes there's a comment that I have some -- you could say if you want -- that I don't have the same criteria. But, please, the fact is that once I put the matter on the agenda, like -- let's say -- I don't know, I don't know, the last initiative, your initiative for an extraordinary session on recent developments, what I know, about the arbitration agreement, something is wrong. When I get an opinion for reasons, I do it within the deadline. If it's a little later, it's wrong again. What's right? One time I'm too fast, the other time I'm too slow. It's never the right time. Whenever I do, it's always the wrong time. And with regard to the classification of these two laws on the two new municipalities, the alleged case was put up by the Members' signatures, this is the matter of marriage, and this is the matter of the National Assembly and taking into account the principle that Mr Mozetič, for example, advocated, then Dr. Pavčnik, that the work of the National Assembly should be organised meaningfully, efficiently, quickly, rationally, logically, it is perfectly normal that, today in the College, not alone, we have decided and placed these points on the agenda, because also in an appropriate time, we also deal with them as quickly as possible and, of course, we decide on them one way or another. Well, all things have always happened within the legal limits. It is clear that I am restricting the debate in Parliament to stifle and restrict it. Please! Approximately 70% of the time spent in Parliament is about 70%. Yesterday we should close the debate at 23 p.m. We finished at 2.05 p.m. We had a vote at 2.35 p.m. You too have not spent time, even though you are moderate consumers and could bring this time to today’s point. We planned to have more time today. What time limit, though? As much as we do in this mandate, in this National Assembly, partly because - I will say - of the situation that dictates that I have to deal with things during this economic crisis. I don't think he's had that much time. And I hope that this will also be the last term, when I spend so much time in Parliament, because the work of a parliamentarian is not just in here, and the work of a parliamentarian is also among the people. The work of Parliamentarians is to train themselves professionally, prepare laws, comment on laws etc. And that's it. I, too, ask the question of why the mayor calls, organises credits, I think that's what was said. I don't know. Ask him. I don't know what Mayor Jankovic does if he calls and arranges loans. Yes, you do. Ask him. I didn't. He is, in fact, the president of the city organisation really in Ljubljana. Yeah, he's my competitor. In the upcoming elections, my competitor is here. And please ask him nicely, and perhaps this information will benefit me when the election battle begins. Now, it has been said to me, Mr Tanko, that I did not convene a meeting in December 2008. That's right. That would be the case. It was two laws passed after the elections by the previous Janšina government, and the College has not yet decided on the type of procedure. Therefore, the legislative process has not yet begun. The fact is that the new government has judged these two laws, that it has had to get into a saddle and that it has had to judge them and, of course, in some way in the coalition have clearly suggested that it waits before deciding. And then the College decided on it, and these two laws were then dealt with at one of the regular sessions, if I'm not mistaken. And I don't. Requirements for the convening of extraordinary meetings. The demand on the subject of Weigl, which is, was called upon at the end by, however, being able to define the matter as a problem of policy-making in the field of external matters, although the debate ran mainly and only on Ivo Wigel, which I think was not a good sign for the National Assembly. Since Article 133, which prohibits and sanctions a verbal offence, no longer exists in this National Assembly and in this country. They exist in the former criminal code of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Each Member shall be free to express its views. Every Member. And that's why he can't answer against him. In principle, we should not refer to extraordinary meetings and treat them as defendants for a session. I was absolutely opposed to, for example, dealing with some other cases in the National Assembly in order to put Members on the ground of their positions and to deal with them in this National Assembly. That's unworthy. That's not appropriate. This, of course, means verbal delinquency. Many more, says Mr Tanko, of course it is the National Assembly, that we have a technological process. Maybe it's the term "technological procedure," I don't think it's appropriate. The procedure in the National Assembly is strictly regulated through rules, through rules of procedure, through procedures that we are familiar with, but are not exactly the same as the technological process. I don't know, processing some ore, getting some metal, making some material or tools or product. No, it's just not. The situations that arise in the National Assembly in this decision-making process can be unique, they can be very specific and there are no rules of procedure that could foresee all possible situations, all possible combinations on which we decide. Of course, this argument of yours, and this judgment of yours, of course, is completely wrong. It is true that the National Assembly deals with politics, the situation in the fields. But call the meeting on this subject. I said that I would immediately go to the meeting on the subject of government policy to state banks and their exposures to risky credits, could be called off immediately. But you don't want it because you have a specific goal and you know exactly what it's like to have my political competitor in Ljubljana, my party in Ljubljana - if I may say so. Just so you know that you won't be able to turn him over to the polls with the help of votes and that he has to be suspended first. And that is also what this session is about. And, unfortunately, this is how this National Assembly is abused. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to the proposaler's opinion, in particular with regard to the debate on the current course of the College, which I think is an outstanding example of Piccolo. Today, at the College, we had a whole series of cases that were proposed to be dealt with. And in this sense, I would like to say that the SDS proposal was not tabled in relation to arbitration 5 days earlier. We didn't say anything about it, we didn't bother. But we said, all the themes we have, we put on an extraordinary session. No one protested. Now we are making a big theater here or looking for hair in the egg. I think you just don't want to see your colleagues in the SDS - if I say biblical - caviar in your eye or you're looking for caviar in our eye, a brown in yours, but you can't see. I still say you are the one who is blocking and obstructing the work of the National Assembly many times, overloading it and impressing some terrible and extraordinary conditions. With regard to matters if we take a constitutional charge against the President of the State or that extraordinary meeting that you mentioned earlier regarding the statements made by our former colleague, Iva Weigle, in Belgrade, which would also be an extraordinary meeting on these statements. These were simple things that went across all the borders of some normal debate here. At the same time, you do not want to see how you or your Member obstructed the report of the Ombudsman in the National Assembly, which is our duty, and you have done everything possible to avoid this debate. As far as today's debate is concerned, the problem is the Complaints and the problem is Jankovic. You've already achieved your goals. You've already achieved your purpose. This is because bankers would simply be under such pressure that they would not accidentally grant a commercial loan or credit for the commercial part of the Stožica project. That's your purpose. You're smokin' with bankers. There are threatening calls on their phones that simply - I would say - symbolically express myself that they simply should not allow this project, in which Jankovic is involved, not to support itself and these are facts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u27	Mrs. Zalokar, it's me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u28	They're just as simple as that. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u29	It's a replica. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The President of the National Assembly did not answer why he first convened the 62nd meeting. The college where we requested it. So it's a request for his release and then why he canceled. There was no explanation. The other thing is. The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Our request for an extraordinary meeting shall be submitted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 58. This is where we met, and it says here that we are Members of the National Assembly - 23 signatories and the President of the Republic. We have not filed a request under the second paragraph. The same goes for other cases as you explained. We have made a request under paragraph 1 and this is completely unequivocal. What you are commenting on is the avoidance of responsibility and the transfer of responsibility. In the second paragraph, the requirement of 23 Members is not written anywhere. And as far as time is concerned, Mr. President. If it wasn't time spent yesterday, you probably know it wasn't because the Rules of Procedure didn't allow it. If no amendments to the law are tabled, all announcements of time in the debates shall be discarded. If you want to discuss it, the rules of procedure should be corrected - suggest. Do not accuse Members and Members of groups of not using their time. It was not possible because we had such order and no one protested. However, it is not right to pressure us in the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure if we have made a request under the first paragraph and the first paragraph is in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. And you must, Mr President, truly be a genius that the word that the President of the National Assembly must convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, if that is required by a quarter of the Members, that you do not convene these meetings. And then you define it as I can or I won't. This must be a genius so that this constitutional provision of Article 85 of the Constitution and Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure can be explained in this way. Nowhere in the Constitution and not in the Rules of Procedure is what the President of the National Assembly refers to. Nowhere. And what you are doing is the total abuse of the Constitutional Institute, the constitutional right of a quarter of Members, which is then enshrined in the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Everything you do is just so that certain matters and some of them are not discussed by those who are loved and loved by you. And these are abuses, Mr. President-respected. Abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that all the viewers and viewers accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly sit at home on the couch, have this book in their hands, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and have gone to closely follow Article 3 or paragraph 3 or I do not know which article. I'll try to be substantially simpler and more plastic. You know, that famous saying, "Goodness is an orphan." I think this is a key issue for this President of the National Assembly. It is that he is often too good and perhaps even too adjusted to the opposition. "Goodness is poor!" If ever, in this case, it appears that this river is still valid. Because the numbers show something else, which is what you're talking about. Let us look at the balance of half of this mandate, which has already been said about today. 17 regular meetings of the National Assembly, 23 extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and more than half of all extraordinary meetings demanded by the opposition. But what's interesting? Yes, when we in this House, in this Chamber, discussed in extraordinary meetings, the opposition on the lagoon had already written new requirements for new extraordinary meetings. I'll give you a concrete example so you won't say I'm speaking. For example, when we recently discussed the interpretation against Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, the Slovenian Democratic Party had already announced a new extraordinary meeting the day before. So it's only about the meetings, because you already know that the sessions you call will not satisfy you. So, exclusively for a political show and nothing else. As a chronic evidence against the President of the National Assembly, Paul Gantar, I quote: "The President of the National Assembly has resorted to an unprecedented practice which is contrary to what we have seen so far." What has been the practice of running the National Assembly so far? Let's take a look. 93. Article 93 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly may order an inquiry into the requirements of public interest, must", I repeat, "but it must do so at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly or at the request of the State Council." And back to the Mercator case. 30 members and members of this National Assembly from the opposition announced publicly that they would apply for a parliamentary investigation into the Mercator case. The Slovenian Democratic Party, with the help of others, has rushed the opposition and has submitted its request for a parliamentary investigation into where it has collapsed some 90 companies. Why did she do that? Not because you wouldn't have the right to rush the opposition. But so that the then president of the National Assembly could say that the Mercator Commission of Inquiry will not be, because it is contained in another commission of inquiry and thus clearly violates the same constitutional principles that you are referring to today. As this Commission of Inquiry, which was subsequently established on the SDS initiative, Mercator spent about a few minutes, as for all companies, more than 80 minutes. She spent six minutes on Mercator. But the President of the National Assembly has ruled, as he himself has estimated that the investigation of the same matter in the two commissions would be, I quote: "unwise." And so on. Not to explain what the exercises were like at the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly at that time, when you had already established 100 companies and 86 companies in which the sale of state shares was supposed to be illegal, untransparent and uneconomic. You already knew that in advance. Or another case, but I'm going on purpose in the past because you're referring to it as a different practice. It was a bad practice. This Parliament has been without one Vice-President of the National Assembly for several months. Why? Because this was the decision of the SDS because it did everything to ensure that this Parliament did not receive a Vice-President, because the candidates who wanted to become Vice-Presidents did not correspond to this party. But these candidates were of the opposition. For this book, which you keep referring to, speaks of how many Vice-Presidents the National Assembly has, where they come from, how many of them are from the opposition. But this Parliament has been without one Vice-President of the National Assembly for months. And go ahead. The opposition to the President of the National Assembly is clear that he is the main generator of problems and that he is triggering conflict situations. This one's really barefoot. With what, how? I suggest you say we know because I don't know today because you haven't said what he's doing. By mentioning the article of the Rules of Procedure as you did before, you did not convince me. This will be very difficult for you to hang on to this President of the National Assembly, because in this Chamber there are Members who can afford to shout at the President of the National Assembly, they resent him so that I will not use another word. Nothing happens and nothing happens in open and closed sessions. Before, one of the opposition's representatives spoke, yes, you're interrupting them. You interrupt too little, too little. Because as much screaming as we've seen him lately, let's say, asking the President of the Government questions, because if that's for Parliament. Really, my ears hurt when I listen to some people scream. I can hear very well. I wonder: What are we going to change for such a low level of political culture? When will the arguments and not the power to vote be again counted in this House? These are the real topics for discussion, the reputation of the National Assembly to which each of us gives a piece. The day before yesterday, a lot of discontent, a lot of anger, took place at the temple of Slovenian democracy. They didn't say words. They said granite cubes. Sometimes I don't know if the language of the street moves into this hall or if it's the other way around. Because there are no more arguments. There's only accusations, there's unworthy words, and there's something else. When you report that the president of the National Assembly has double vats, I'll tell you my observations. When I - let's say - in my explanation of vote, I see Parliament Speaker Paul Gantar, he already has his finger on the key to interrupt me, he is extremely sensitive to everything I say. If you go to see how many times he's interrupted me in explaining my voice to you, you'll find that the difference is more than obvious. Now there's something else about Mr. Jankovic. Today it has been said that Jankovic is, quote: "Protected as a Bone Bear." Hello, doesn't the SDS have an investigative commission? Wasn't this investigative commission set up precisely to go to the intestines of Zoran Jankovic and various construction works in Ljubljana? Because if your argument is true, then why don't you extend the request for a parliamentary inquiry? Because if we can address your subject at a meeting of the National Assembly, and I say we can't, then it can also be on the parliamentary commission of inquiry that you set up. Why don't you suggest that you don't expand the subject matter? Or why didn't you ask him what you wanted to ask Mr Jankovic when he came to the hearing before the parliamentary commission of inquiry? Because the only thing I learned from the media when I was watching was that the mayor liked to talk about the name and the sport to drink coffee. I already know all that. Because, therefore, if you hold that the subject you are asking for should be addressed by this National Assembly, then consider it on your committee. That's all there is to it. I'm not going to guess if you already have a request for a new extraordinary session in your lager. Oh, yeah, we already have it on Tuesday. It's amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the President of the National Assembly, my colleague and my friend Paul Gantar, for the statements he made and the attitude he held as President immediately after the violent events and after that attempt to attack the National Assembly. I cannot do the same with the first person of the largest opposition party to make a very two-faced statement, thus proving a very inappropriate and two-faced attitude towards this institution. Pavel Gantar is recorded in the history of Slovenian spring as one of the few representatives of this spring in the National Assembly. Maybe it's a permanent distraction for someone. Some thus attribute strictness to him, and some even overbalance to all the groups of the Members. In Zares, we sometimes don't have him as ours, and we tell him, czech, he punishes us the most in the debates. But because the proponents mentioned me and the initiative that we gave and tried to compare the debate that they did not get with the second debate, let me say that it was one piece of legislation. And that's the legislative body. We are discussing laws in Parliament, including laws establishing municipalities. Somewhere else - only in the National Assembly can, there are no other cities. What they require is a topic that deals with the City Council in Ljubljana. It's a topic that deals with private people and banks. It's a topic that deals with the economy. The National Assembly is not a debate ring and is not a ring for local elections. Other cities are qualified for such discussions. So, the decision was substantive. And just like that, it wasn't procedural, it was substantive. And the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly shall have discretion, in particular if it is supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Therefore, do not be misled or mislead the public. It's not the same thing. Pavel Gantar is a liberal and Democrat. And he proved this several times, not only as President of the National Assembly, but also as President of the National Assembly. And when we talk about interfering with the debates, in the words of some Members, I personally give him too much tolerance. Because here we are dealing with hate speech, promoting violence, insults and slanders. And then he owes the president a word. I think it's his duty and he's very, very patient about it. So it is clear that this forced debate is the attempt of the Slovenian Democratic Party to launch an electoral campaign on the Ljubljana municipality on the mayor. And I really don't understand why we are constantly and constantly agreeing to these whims of SDS and this attempt to destabilise some normal parliamentary work. It's just your password from the very beginning to stick to these experiments, these plans. But you're not gonna make it. Not even today, because you won't get the required majority. You know that, but you're still abusing Parliament for your pre-election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respect for the rules of procedure and constitutional order is the basis for the legal and just functioning of the institution and, of course, concerns all representatives of the people who represent their constituents in the highest legislative body. Respect for the National Assembly and all those who are in this respected home, work, was shown when the police broke into the National Assembly and searched the premises of the Slovenian National Party, of course with the approval of the President of the National Assembly. Respect for the National Assembly was particularly evident when young people were allowed to chant, insult people’s representatives, and break the front of the National Assembly at the time of the demonstrations. That this would happen was to be expected. This has been pointed out by people who are not experts in this field. But no. What happened wasn't supposed to happen. Therefore, the person who gave the safety assessment and agreed to the vandals to do the job as we have seen. He can only thank the police. For they have indeed done the work properly and professionally. Otherwise, the consequences would be much greater. I believe the President of the National Assembly is trying to hold the meetings to the best of his ability, but he is still failing. In particular, decisions are too often of a very subjective nature when deciding on interruptions from the Slovenian National Party and the SDS. This is also what does not grace him as president of the National Assembly, the first of the same. Article 85 of the Constitution states that the President of the National Assembly shall convene regular and extraordinary meetings if at least a quarter of the Members so require. Of course, this can be understood or interpreted differently. However, there was too much of this at the time of rejection and it also seemed unreasonable to the applicants, who were not always convinced of the reasons for the refusal and were not recorded in the Constitution. The same is stated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 58, and the interpretation cannot be different in this case as it is enshrined in the Constitution. There must be a lot of problems in the country. And as the opposition's proposals indicate, for the call for extraordinary meetings, only the opposition sees problems. Otherwise, extraordinary meetings would have been held, which were also proposed by explanation. Nowhere does it say that the responsibility for bad or good decisions lies only with the coalition, but with all of us who represent the people. It would therefore be right to know how to listen and that dialogue is constructive and for the benefit of all citizens. I believe that the replacement of the President of the National Assembly would not make much difference, as decisions are always dependent not only on the President of the National Assembly, but on the decisions of those who lead the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I didn't know how to start today's debate. And I'm going to start with one of the parables that I said once before. There are three great nonsensees in the world: to go to the hill and smoke, to move from home to the father-in-law and to discuss the investment of the Stožica Sports Park as a basis for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. And since there is a lot of talk about the Rules of Procedure, I will also take advantage of the business provision that we use when we end the first hearing in law. I will say that the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, is not suitable for further discussion. This meaningful proposal that I have made to you is based on the substantive explanation of this proposal tabled by the Members who have signed this request to the National Assembly. This is based only on a number of data, business, labour and other information, as well as polyinformation, newspaper articles on the project of financing the construction of the sports park of Stožica. And something similar continues in the debates so far. Those of you who advocated this extraordinary session today. Although the proponents of this debate believe that this is a politically funded project that is intended to pose a threat to the stability of the financial system in Slovenia in particular, these findings and assessments have not been supported by any evidence to use this vocabulary. It is true, however, that a number of suspicions about non-economic behaviour, infringements have been imposed by the Financial Action Act, the Law on Public Finances, and so on in the explanation and today's debate. In short, the proponents suspect that the Stožica Sports Park project has resulted in irregularities and also illegal acts. It's been said a few times today. This, of course, means that we are not the right address to clean up these things. If this is a broader context of economic investment, this is the Ljubljana City Council, which runs this project. However, it would be right for the applicants, if you really suspect to press charges against, according to your well-known perpetrator who is suspected of unlawful acts and would therefore call upon the competent authorities in this country, who have the powers and powers to deal with these matters. In short, even in this case, with today's extraordinary meeting, you are abusing this institute and this National Assembly for your narrow political interests in this pre-referendum and even more in the pre-election period. This is about the local elections in the autumn. That is why the title of today's item "Sports Park Stožice" and as a person at the head of this current mayor and most likely candidate in future elections, as Mr Jankovic has already said. An illustration or confirmation of this assessment or claim is also a request for the convening of the next extraordinary meeting, which will be extended. However, you have suggested that at this extraordinary meeting we also consider an arbitration agreement. Besides, we have an electoral campaign that's already going on. We also discussed this several times at the meetings of the National Assembly. And that we have a June 6th referendum. You require an extraordinary debate in the State Assembly on an arbitration agreement. I think it's another one. And I believe it is not the last attempt, because by the end of the term, there is still a considerable time when the biggest opposition SDS party is trying to loosen the foundations of this coalition because it cannot accept that September 2008 elections have been lost. From this shock, some cannot recover until today. Although it is extremely difficult to shed yourself from the situation when, from day to day in the National Assembly for four years, you performed with a password that I wrote down several times in the argument of your ministers, including the current minister sitting in these benches: "We agreed so. That's what we've concluded, and that's how it's gonna be." Now it's a state where, of course, it's gone. And that's a really big move. So I'm going to say again and again what I did two days ago, that I won't say again that you're not telling the truth or the lies, but that you're lying. And I'll mention the extraordinary sessions. There was a large number of speeches at the beginning of the 2008 mandate, which were not convened. I looked at the base of the National Assembly. We launched this government mandate in November 2008 and on 22.12. we had an extraordinary meeting on your initiative, at which we have already considered the Government's slowness in responding to the crisis. And then we had January 14th. In the midst of this was a New Year's holiday, a new extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on your initiative, where we discussed three of your proposals for laws. On income, value added tax and corporate income tax. Yeah, what else would you like? In addition to regular meetings, we had two extraordinary sessions in three weeks, and during Christmas and New Year’s holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lois Posedel has the floor. [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u42	Your Honor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u43	Mr. Lois Posedel. Okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The sex is the same, no matter how you see it. Thank you for your word. At first, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, made a joke to feel a little offended because he was not the main person of his point. I am sure that he has said this, as it were, a bit of a joke, because as one of the biggest Democrats in Parliament, and more broadly, he knows how things turn out. On the other hand, given the recent knowledge of the events, it is very clear to him that this point of discharge by the President of the National Assembly is not intended but that it is part of these strong numerous attacks on all the institutions that are taking place. It is hard to understand, otherwise, that people, especially young people, can respect values if they are systematically defiled or demolished. This is because we are all talking about the crisis of values. And I'm sure it's a country too. The value is the President of the country, symbols such as flag, coat of arms and the like, Parliament. It is hard to believe that people will respect these values if we have a policy that for a number of years - we can almost say - for decades repeats and compares our beautiful, especially our flag with the chocolate wrapper. If we have Members, the Group of Members who submits with the right remedy and requests interpretation against the President of the State. However, even if this requires that, when the President of the country as a symbol of the state enters the Parliamentary Chamber, there is not so much respect for man as it is for the symbol that at least the group, together with the President of this Group and the parties, should stand up. How should Parliament be respected as a building, an institution, as a cultural monument if it is publicly called for the time to burn castles? Definitely burning castles in a transferable sense. And that it was burning, not in, but very close to Parliament. And all these things need to be condemned. Condemn it because the proverb says, "He who sows the wind reaps the wind." In this spirit, I am convinced that a request has also been made for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. It is likely that those who somehow promote, or at least cooperate, enjoy, follow. They do not realize the fact that if those who once do not respect the symbols do not respect the values, they will not respect them even when the faces change. Even when the names change the President or the State or the National Assembly, their attitude towards these values will remain the same. It is said that the quasi youth, the quasi students are already so corrupt that the question is whether they will change their way of violent behaviour just because of the change of name. Also today's debate, I hope I am wrong, but I will be able to check it out, Mr Tanko said in his implementation that yesterday there was a meeting of some sort of a triumph that took something. I hope he said that because he may not know the Slovenian translation of that word. The meeting he thought was the meeting of the President of the State, the President of Parliament and the President of the Government. At a meeting that was necessary, they strongly condemned the events of these demonstrations at that meeting. And it certainly wasn't triumviral. That's not what our legal system does. The Slovenian translation of this word means: in the ancient Romans, it was a joint service of three officials. Mr. Tanko, if you didn't know that, now you know. You can probably also apologize to all these three because such messages, such an attitude towards these elected or appointed people, are spreading from this Parliament to people. And that's definitely not good. I myself do not wish to dispute in this part whether the content of your request was correct, because I am sure that the President of Parliament, together with all the professional services, has rightly decided not to give it. Just as it does not seem productive to me at today's meeting, whether your concern for credit and the system of banks in Slovenia may be compromised by a project, even though it is called the Stožice project. In the commissions we also addressed concerns about the banking system based on newspaper articles and amounts, a couple of million loans. Probably with a different purpose than just taking care of the banking system. Otherwise, the same people you are asking would ask themselves during your term of office where your concern for the banking system was for the stability of the banking system, when the amounts of bank credits in most of the country's ownership were upside down in a hundred million dollars a month. You weren't worried about the financial stability of the banking system at the time, but it is today. This way I will certainly not support your proposal, and the President of the National Assembly certainly enjoys full confidence in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened to the applicant's additional explanation, it was clear to me that we are not talking today about the distinguished President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, but, of course, about the Ljubljana Mayor, Mr Jankovic, and that we are interpelling the Ljubljana mayor. I have to say that's all we've seen. In fact, years ago, I experienced similar sessions in the city’s world, when we were constantly in the stage of extraordinary meetings, even in many cases unfinished. Some problems have always been discussed. Now that I've thought about it, I've got a few things coming back. For example, in the city council of Ljubljana we discussed the state of football in Ljubljana. Colleagues from the SDS then, of course, assessed him as a disgraceful quality. We discussed the state of the refugee stadium at the time, and the SDS considered it a wasteland and a disgrace for Ljubljana. And now that the new stadium is being built, the matter is once again a disgrace to Ljubljana and even Slovenia. I think we should cut down at least if we're talking about the stadium a little bit back. This area that we are talking about today, Stožice, has been defined as a venue for the construction of the stadium at the end of the 1970s or in the early 1980s with the long-term development plan of Ljubljana. Of course, as in Ljubljana many times, there was no political will to build, but the building plan for the area was designed and called the stadium. During the 1990s, there were several initiatives to start construction there. And in 2001 the municipality of Ljubljana purchased land in an abandoned gravel shop for the current 2.78 billion tolars, about now it would be about 11 million euros. At that time, a special company, Stadion d.o.o., was established, which began analysis of possible construction, preparation of plans, etc. Even before the end of the 1990s, a special committee was set up to build not only stadiums but halls. At that time, it was also called the Ljubljana University Hall, which was chaired by the then Prime Minister. The representatives of the municipal congregation also participated in this committee. In short, we can see that these efforts are very long. I think it's time for the construction itself to come to an end. Despite all the complications, I hope that we all agree here that this will be a great achievement for Ljubljana, for Slovenia, that there will be the modern hall that we need, the modern stadium that Ljubljana and Slovenia need. But if there's a shopping mall next door, there probably won't be any special damage. By the way, in the construction of Stožic - what we say - it is the public-private partnership of MOL, conducted by a public tender on which Gradis, Group G and Energoplan and Mercury were selected. These were basic providers and MOL concluded a contract with them to establish a public-private partnership for the construction of a multi-purpose stadium, a sports hall and an accompanying facility with all the necessary infrastructure. Gradis, the G Energoplan Group, subsequently concluded with the consent of the Municipality of Ljubljana on 25 April 2008 a transfer contract with Grep, which was passed on to it by a public-private partnership agreement and thus became the holder of all rights and obligations under the Public-Private Partnership Treaty. By the way, I would also like to say that the public-private partnership process was subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of 2009, which found no irregularities regarding it, since it did not order preparatory measures or the preparation of a response report. If anyone wants to review this, the report is available online. In short, all the construction conditions were. I personally believe, as I said at the outset, that today it is not the President of the National Assembly that it is a matter of attitude towards the capital, of attitude towards Ljubljana and of the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, I will certainly not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich will not discuss it. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Kolarič, I suggest you read the tape and you will see how much you discussed Mr Gantar's solution proposal and how much you discussed the problems of Ljubljana. Otherwise, when I am listening to the President of the National Assembly today, I cannot believe that this is the same person because I already know him from his previous term as an opposition Member, where he was very keen to defend freedom of speech and open debate in the National Assembly. I also shared this view at the time that the Parliamentary Chamber is a place where all matters must be discussed and there is no subject that anyone could define, but that it is not a place for discussion in the National Assembly. Today, we are witnessing, or in this term, that the position of the President of the National Assembly has changed by 360 degrees. That really surprises me. Where are the reasons: Are there reasons for being in the coalition now, or are there reasons elsewhere? I do not recall the case in the previous term that any request made by the opposition after an extraordinary meeting would be tried to delay or refuse. Everything has been consistently taken into account, particularly if this was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Today, the President of the National Assembly began his explanation by saying: "The President of the National Assembly cannot do everything right." I agree with that. However, for every Member, and especially for him, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are that act which must be followed consistently, and there is no dilemma here whether it will be interpreted in any way or not. In particular, if these provisions are clear. And the request for an extraordinary meeting has been clearly defined, and also on this basis we have decided to convene an extraordinary meeting, which, of course, the President did not wish to call - we know why - because he wanted to protect the interests of his client colleagues or allies. It's not here now, whether it's the Complaints, whether it's Mayor Jankovic, or anyone else. Here we wanted to discuss the business or lending of the biggest Slovenian bank, which is majority owned by the country. And we've already saved this bank with the taxpayer's money. We know that their business results are extremely poor. He's calling again for us to rehabilitate this bank. But here it is now known that the project, which is certainly a personal and political project of the current mayor of Ljubljana, will now be financed by this bank. But we know that our economies, our companies are in bloody need of money for their business, we know that they are actually facing great liquidity problems, but of course they are not getting money. Why not? Because it goes into completely different investments. I agree, even in Slovenia, in Ljubljana, that we have a solid sports, cultural and, finally, a commercial facility. But let us ask ourselves, is the situation in Slovenia now such that it can be a priority for us. I don't think so. Mr Gantar says that minor matters should not be dealt with here. Maybe he wanted to use some rhetoric as much as the Prime Minister of the government that they were third-class subjects. I don't think so. This is not a third-class topic, this is an extremely important topic to familiarise the policy here, to inform the public about how our banks operate and not least how they are doing, it would probably also apply to how they are exploited or exploited by workers who have to hunt hands in inhumane situations to open up to the elections of the Staff Stadium. Mr President of the National Assembly also states that the National Assembly must not interfere in other branches of government, both judicial and executive. Of course I'm not supposed to interfere. Who, though, can intervene if this is necessary if they violate basic principles? However, if there is a debate in the National Assembly on matters where irregularities are raised, both judicial and executive, it is the only place for us to speak frankly about these matters. I myself firmly believe that the President of the National Assembly should give up such a way of working alone. I hope that there will be enough support to get rid of it, then we will have a president who will respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and will lead the meetings of the National Assembly as it is right by the end of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Well, if there is any benefit from today's request to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, then his reflection is in response to the charges. In this consideration, he wrote some very important findings regarding the functioning of the National Assembly, the state of democracy and what is most important in the National Assembly, that is the word. The words in Parliament are actions, he said. And in doing so, I thought about how we use that word in the National Assembly. I agree with him that the reasoned debate has been replaced by judgments, convictions, qualifications and disqualifications. We are even aware that the words of those who so easily fly out of our mouth are how easily the convictions and accusations fly. And two days ago, the dice were flying. Do we take on our conscience also the responsibility for what is said if we accept the thesis of what is the power of the word? Oscar Wilde and Ivan Cankar have already written down that we can kill by word. But they didn't mean it so specifically; I hope you get so much imagination, it's a metaphor and words trigger actions. When I think from this point of view about the role of Parliament and all that is happening here, then when I think about the argument, I face the fact that the opposition is hyperproducing texts that do not have reasoned requirements, it relies on formal reasons that it can prove by way of individual business definitions, but when we look at the content behind them, we see that it is empty. My colleague Kumro and I have recently demonstrated how many demands or how many legislative proposals have been put into the legislative process and how the opposition has recovered by worrying about the state of the country and how this coalition is deaf to their initiatives. The same could be said that the opposition also produces requirements for interpolation, for discharges, for constitutional charges, which are very poorly substantiated. What am I supposed to do with this request I have here? Mr Grill has scandalized my fellow Member, Kolaric, that he is talking about the Intercession and not Paul Gantar, but that he himself has been talking about the Intercession, if we have an investigative commission led by the opposition MP and it is there to prove what they think is necessary to prove, and what I should do with the articles also from those media which the opposition normally considers inappropriate and unobjective and under the influence of which the lobby is. If I had thought about the distinguished President of the National Assembly, Paul Gantar, from my parliamentary experience, I had accompanied him as Minister, as the opposition Member and now as President of the National Assembly, but I regret that I am no longer following him as a discusser, but we have not always been caught in the positions. But the breadth of the spirit can also take a different view, and it can also respond respectfully. However, some in this National Assembly try to transform the National Assembly into a school classroom from some previous times, from the 19th to the 18th century, and try to embarrass schoolboys and show them how to deal with them so that they can finally understand something — schoolboy, abusive! And this is an excellent explanation and proof of the fact that hate speech is not always measurable, and hate speech can also be a way of dealing with an individual and his purpose. That is why I would like to see the President of the National Assembly or the vice-presidents interrupt someone several times in his debate, and I know that it is always very difficult to measure when you limit freedom of speech and when you intervene in the speaker's performance to protect the dignity of the one whose dignity is conceived. Paul Gantar is said to be guilty because he did not convene a meeting for which the formal conditions were to be met, and I would like to believe that the reference was also based on the idea that this continuation of some established practice, that this practice actually interfered with the work of the National Assembly, because we had in our hands many very empty requests for meetings, including urgent ones. If you look at the rules of procedure when an urgent meeting is convened, it must, in addition to formal reasons, that you have the appropriate number of signatures collected, that you have a designated item of the agenda, that the proposed conclusions are likely to meet the fundamental condition that the content proposed is appropriate and that the need for treatment at the meeting of either the working body or the State Assembly is not met. It is interesting how the same requirement can be directed at two different working bodies, experiencing different echoes. I'll tell you from a very specific case without a name, but like that. I am the president of the working body, who has received a request for an emergency meeting, and I have called on her at the time of business and have listened for more than an hour because I called her so quickly. Another working body also had with the same content a request for an emergency meeting, that urgent meeting was never held, it was only recalled, and it was cancelled, and never carried out - not a word of an obvious lack of respect for the rules of procedure. I could add a few more of these. As the president of the working body myself in the previous term, I was often the subject of dealing with different bodies, including the college. It is simply that when the president of the working body receives a request that is, on the one hand, at least one part, commercially justified, but not in the other part, and applies for an explanation to the Legislative and Legal Service, I see nothing wrong with it. It's always good to ask the opinion, I'm afraid of those who know everything. And unfortunately there are quite a few people in this opposition who think they all know they know everything and that they are the only ones called to explain the rules of procedure. Let them run - and they can't, because the Rules of Procedure also determine who can run for President of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure also state that the President interprets the Rules of Procedure. Did anyone count how many procedural initiatives or demands were initiated and did not have the slightest justification or the slightest? Often they were not justified and it was a grave abuse of the rules of procedure, it was a waste of time away - if I was a columnist in a client’s newspaper, I would say it was a waste of time. But you know, when we talk about what is good and how the meetings are being held, it seems that some of these requirements that we are considering, and some of the proposals we are considering, are as if the opposition were trying to test the strength of the coalition. But in the same breath, this same coalition is told how the coalition deals with itself. And with this request for the discharge of the President, or at this request, I would wave my hand and say, "Well, good, because these meetings will also end once," if I did not worry that I would also see in this request the systematic destruction of all institutions of democracy in this country. Systematic demolition, undermining the soil under the feet, authority, dignity and thus the power of these institutions. And why should we be surprised that Parliament reaches such a low score in people? In the same breath, we are prepared to talk about how great the achievement is the abandonment of the mind and the introduction of the multilateral system, but then we forget that one of the principles is also the embodiment of the conflict between different views on the side. But this conflict can also be resolved in the argumented debate, not in the way in which it often takes place in our debate. And when I think about whether I have any argument to support the request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly by Dr Paul Gantar, then I say that I see no argument for such a request, but I see an argument that I will say to the President in a secret vote when no one looks at me what I think of him - that respect is worthy of a man.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Some of the things that have been opened by the debaters so far are that they do not actually deserve a comment. It is likely that the current President of the National Assembly can also answer the question of why no other investigative committee has been designated on the same matter in the National Assembly. No problem. You could have! Secondly, the President of the National Assembly has no discretion whatsoever to decide. No, it's not. Anyone who discusses the fact that the President of the National Assembly has a discretionary right - does not! We decide Members of the National Assembly by voting at the College on agendas, procedures, agenda items and so on. In the National Assembly, whether we accept an amendment or not, or we adopt a law. The President of the National Assembly has no exclusive discretion. There is also an interpretation that the President of the National Assembly can or cannot do something about it - it cannot be. As in the Constitution, as in the Rules of Procedure, it says "sea." There is no relativisation of this, this claim, this lesson from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Nowhere, not in the constitution, not in the rules of procedure. He has to. And I would like to continue to remind you that in this specific request that we have made for the treatment of the Stožice, I will read again: The National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia to report to it, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, whether the banks in majority state ownership are carrying out something. They're implementing the Banking Act. What is the issue with this provision? Article 152 of the Constitution states that Slovenia has a central bank. In this case it is Banka Slovenije. In its operation, this bank is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly. And the President of the National Assembly, when he prevented this request from being called upon, prevented the implementation of the following provision. He prevented Banka Slovenije from reporting to the National Assembly on what was going on in this case. We even explicitly wrote, if you read precisely, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions. We even cited the Banking Act, chapters that talk about risks. Why can the Bank of Slovenia, Mr President of the National Assembly, not report and cannot report? Yeah, you didn't call the meeting. You've prevented it. That's what the bank will say. You're not the one who's going to decide arbitrarily whether or not you can. We then proposed that the National Assembly propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions, to report to it whether the companies and independent entrepreneurs involved in the construction of the Sožica sport park are implementing the provisions of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Why should the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the honourable President of the National Assembly, not report to the National Assembly under constitutional and legal provisions? By not calling the meeting, you stopped it. You don't have this arbitral right. Anyone can read me a business provision or a constitutional provision allowing the President of the National Assembly to do so. We have proposed that the National Assembly recommend to the budgetary inspection that, within its powers and powers, it exercise control over the implementation of the Public Finance Act. Should the National Assembly accept no recommendation to any public institution, no state institution? The president of the National Assembly, when he did not convene the meeting, prevented the National Assembly from recommending anyone to do anything. The institution we have specifically to oversee the implementation of the Public Finance Act. Finally, we are talking about a public institution. We have proposed that the National Assembly should call on the Government to do everything within its legal capacity and competence to improve the social situation and protect workers. Why can't the National Assembly call the government? Can we, Mr. President of the National Assembly, argue this? On the basis of what Article of the Rules of Procedure, which Article of the Constitution should the National Assembly not do so? Should we not recommend to the Government that if in these areas the legal possibilities and powers are insufficient to produce appropriate legislation or amendments to existing legislation? Doesn't the National Assembly have that right? With this proposal, we have not intervened in any way in the division of power. However, in what is provided for in the Constitution and the law, and also in the rules of procedure, it must be implemented. If the President of the National Assembly is such an authority to prevent members of the National Assembly from instructing institutions which are obliged by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure to report to the National Assembly to do so - then we can ask ourselves whether this is the private institution of the President of the National Assembly, whether he is the director who decides what should be done in the National Assembly, what should be proposed, what should be discussed and how. This, Madam President, is what actually burdens you in this case. And this is some investment that is currently the largest in Slovenia. And for an investment that we read from the media is the biggest financial hole in Slovenia. There are no covered resources, not in public, sports work, if you want, not in business. And the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana publicly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the project because he has not yet received, as the only one, nothing from public funds. I am interested in what provisions in the Constitution and on which provisions in the Rules of Procedure you will support these decisions, the honourable President of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure do not permit you to do so, the Constitution does not allow you to do so. And if these two acts that we use at work do not allow you to do so, then you have violated such a constitution and you have violated the rules of procedure. And that wasn't the first time, and that probably won't be the last time. But to expect the President of the National Assembly to act in a very well-proportioned manner, rather than his political companions, as do ministers who are covered by his institutional role, when he prevents the debate on certain matters from being carried out in a timely manner through the National Assembly and determined, let's say, by making some decisions that would impose on institutions, then this is political obstruction, impeding the work of the National Assembly. The opposition is simply a constitutional element of this national council and because it is an opposition, because it does not have a majority, it is also subject to specific provisions, even in the constitution written. And we don't abuse them, like you say here, we use them to draw attention to the real problems that are in this society. I would like very unequivocal answers, Mr President, with argument and support for the provisions we apply in our work, both in our constitution, in our laws and in our rules of procedure. I think you're going to have a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Paula Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u54	On the contrary, Comrade Tanko, I will have no trouble. None at all. 85. Article 85 of the Constitution, which commands the convening of an extraordinary meeting, must be read together with the whole Constitution and all legislative acts and cannot be applied in full, this Article, against the Constitution. The first thing that, as you interpret it, could come into my office: only on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution, I call an extraordinary meeting - without title, without content and without everything. It's nothing. An extraordinary meeting should be convened. I call for an extraordinary session, a reformative act of action and an extraordinary meeting should be convened. If these principles were to apply today and then, Mr Sugar should only be assigned to Mercator by the Commission of Inquiry. That's clear to everyone. That's why you have double standards, not me. It's a different matter. Why I didn't call a meeting on the subject of the Staff to simplify. Why did I not actually accept the argument that I should convene this meeting? Simply because the topic, as defined by you, regardless of the conclusions, does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly. The competence of the National Assembly does not include the fact that a consortium of banks, including one which is owned by a majority of the state, is organised by a consortium, according to newspaper statements, a loan for a private company that will build a trading centre. The National Assembly cannot discuss this! And I have to say, I would never let that happen, anyway. Because it is - those who have experience in democratic warfare know what it means and what it means. They know that this is the introduction of totalitarian state and totalitarianism, through the eyes and through the eyes of the National Assembly, through the National Assembly. We can't afford that. The National Assembly may adopt abstract standards on family, family, foster care, law and so on. The National Assembly cannot discuss individual families. The National Assembly must not go to the bedroom. The National Assembly must not go to a company, to a private company, the National Assembly must know, as required by the Constitution, that it separates between the public and private spheres. The National Assembly is not a self-proclaimed ruler, but it has been elected by the people, given him a mandate, a constitution and laws that he can change, but must follow them. Therefore, gentlemen, it is impossible to convene a meeting with such an address, it is impossible to reach a decision even if it were formally correct for the Government to determine whether the sun is still rising in the east and to ensure that it continues to rise in the east. When you quoted the Bank of Slovenia Act, this is the case, we cannot ask the bank to report on a loan that is obviously not yet and probably will not, because, as one of the former Governors of Bank of Slovenia said, the money is a shy bird and you have already achieved your goal in my opinion. Because the question is, as they say, I can read that this loan will come to light because you've already destroyed it; because it's a shy bird because they're saying why we should deal with it, we'll have audits all the time, investigative commissions, we'll go up, down, and you've pretty much destroyed maybe one project. I'm not going to talk about whether this project is good or bad, it's my personal opinion that you don't care about. But at a time when you're talking about how the construction crisis is, how projects are missing, a person would expect that if the project is assessed by those who invest in it, as a good thing, you will leave it at least if not the other, and that the risk will indeed be borne by the one who builds it and invests in it. This is an elementary requirement, an elemental thing of some completely normal democracy, because we are not in Iran. And we have no rules of procedure, and we cannot interpret the rules of procedure as if it were being interpreted on its own. We have problems, Mr Tanko, so, I think you simply have problems with interpretation, with lexical, meaningful, with contextual, and that this is not possible to conduct a meeting, none of the meetings. The meeting of the National Assembly is an interaction. As I have already mentioned, there is no rules of procedure and there is no law that could define all individual situations and situations, so this is completely inappropriate and we have to shake off such things and we must not do so. Such a debate would be unworthy, unconstitutional, unconstitutional for the National Assembly, unless you do not understand democracy in a different sense, if it has a different meaning for you or if you think that the National Assembly can be used and abused at any time and at any time. Maybe, but without me! I would now like to answer that as I speak, my colleague is here, first of all about the approval of the President of the National Assembly to investigate the premises of the Group of Members in the National Assembly. First of all, it should be said that I received a call from the secretary-general at the entrance to Brnik Airport, where she informed me that the police had announced that in half an hour she would conduct an investigation at the premises of one of the members of the group, that she did not want to tell which group would do so and that, of course, she had prepared all of this to ensure that this investigation was not unsupervised and without regard to the security services and services accompanying it. Then I went on a plane, and I didn't even know who was being investigated, and why, etc. That's the first thing. The other thing is that. There is no legal act in Slovenia, no law, no constitution that prohibits, prevents or sets up any other procedures for so-called house investigations in the National Assembly. And the police acted on the basis of legislation that allowed it. It is not possible to complain or prevent this; unless you want to say so, the rules apply to all people equally, except Members. That this should not happen to Members of Parliament, but the Members are exempt. If you said that - and you didn't say that, and I would protest if you said that - of course you could only arouse great anger in public, in society. A comparative review of the arrangements of individual parliaments in European countries finds that most European countries are, in principle, open to these types, capable of saying, investigations or reviews, all parliaments, regardless of where they come from, etc. Thus, there are no specific provisions and they must respect the provisions resulting from the law governing these matters. So it's here. Of course, I expect that complaints can be filed or not, etc., as an explanation, perhaps even - I don't think that would be wrong - I don't rule out this at any committee or National Assembly. As far as hate speech is concerned, as was said. In your hate speech, you yourself have noticed that when I hold a meeting, I use the definition of hate speech strictly in this definition, which is in the criminal law or wherever the hate speech is defined as that act that directly protects, calls for the physical and other destruction of individuals or the discreditation of individuals, ethnic groups, etc. I take it strictly in this sense, I take it in a relatively narrow sense - here perhaps we are different - because I believe that freedom of speech is invaluable, that sometimes even in this matter should be put at risk, only to avoid affecting freedom of speech. That this must be ensured in parliamentary democracy. That's why I'm trying. And the second time such a talk occurs, you will find that out when it happens and then it is extremely difficult to stop, or then stop or stop, as it should be. There is a lot of insulting speech, and actually there is little hate speech in Parliament in this sense. Of course, there's more to be desired. If he's insulting, we can already settle for that. Sometimes I limit extreme resentment when it comes to people who cannot defend themselves, they are outside Parliament, they have nothing to do with Parliament, and they can only look helplessly and listen to how people in Parliament process them, in an extremely personal or improper way. I don't limit it - why not? Because it's your speech because my speech is yours, my ID. Through this speech you recognize yourself in people, not only through what you say, but by who you speak. Anyone who talks should be aware that he keeps writing his own ID card that identifies him. And it's okay for me if someone writes a personal ID with not too good qualifications, he's responsible for it himself. And that's why I don't limit it too much, except then, and I think I'm in a dilemma when I'm up there - and in my opinion also all the vice-presidents, with whom I have to say that I'm a good participant, excellent - we're always asking ourselves whether we're deciding in this story freedom of speech or preventing harm to others, we're trying to make decisions on the face of the city, right now, sometimes well - many times well, sometimes of course we can be wrong. It's either art or management's secret. You learn some of it, you have something in your gut, something in your experience, something good and bad, and that's how it works. It was no different with any president of the National Assembly, everyone has their own style, you could see that my style is slightly different from that of Mr Tsukati's former colleague, the current Vice-President. I think it's right that styles change a little bit, that they're a little different, that it's a discussion and so on, and that's it. This is how I would like to warn you once again: not only what I told you about the Centers and the non-community of this session, but also that you need to know for yourself that if there is no God or because there is no God, whatever you want, it is not all right. That's why everything's not allowed. That is why you need to look after your actions and actions because there is no one over you who can judge you and can judge your actions. Because it's you, because you need to know whether or not you're going to do harm to someone else. Since you have to judge for yourself, this is the responsibility that belongs only to you and you cannot refer to any authority outside yourself; except for you, your context, other people and people. What you don't want others to do to you, you don't do to others. On this, gentlemen, this democracy is also based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. As a proponent, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Right on that, Madam President. And so I also asked you on what provisions can I make? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u57	Mr. Tank, you have the floor. You're welcome to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much. On exactly what Mr President said, our question is also based: on what provisions did he base his decision on which argument? Not at the moment, but at the point of argument. Since colleges have been here for centuries, probably in the National Assembly, it always reads: "on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 4, of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure," etc. It would be good, however, for the President of the National Assembly to say on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is allowed to make a discretionary decision, which matters will be called upon and which will not be convened. That's what I'd like to ask, and I want this explanation, because with this answer that's now going on, I don't know how long we haven't got. I need an answer so we can know what it's up to. There is no such argument and, unfortunately, it will probably be difficult to obtain it, so the President of the National Assembly is also avoiding and somehow covering up with some general statements or I don't know what. President-in-Office, on the basis of which paragraph, of which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly you have rejected eight requests for the convening of extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly so far. This was the ninth you put in a regular session? On the basis of what we were unable to discuss at the extraordinary meeting of the Headquarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you. Respectable. The President of the National Assembly, so I take him personally, is a man worthy of respect and dignity. That's where trust comes from. If there is no trust, fear usually sets in his place. If society and the state are based solely on power and predominance, then power and political stability are weak and based on persecution. I quote Professor Dr. Zupančič. And the persecutors or even the conspiracies are everywhere. We see them in the rules of procedure, we see them in the constitution, we see them in the Stožice, we see them in stadiums, in municipalities, established and unestablished, we see them in banks, we see them in Banka Slovenije, in all other state institutions, and of course in other bizarre events and inventions. They are here, in this high house are these persecutors and there are these conspiracies, and this house - I hope we agree - must know how to live without stubbornness, without inadmissibility, without indifference and incomprehensibility. He needs to live with his mind and his heart culture. We will also have to get used to Dr Gantar, a respected colleague and colleague, in order to apply these principles, even in the future. Fellow Grill - good that Dr. Gantar turned 360 degrees, these are the habits you value in him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr President, I will not be with articles and such things now, because I think people understand us a little bit harder, but I will be much more practical. When we voted on your candidacy for President of the National Assembly a year and a half or more ago in the National Assembly in these quarters, you know that you have also received opposition votes. Among them was mine. But then why did I make up my mind? Because, in the previous term, you, as chairman of a commission, I, in another office, have been involved in things I cannot talk about; we know why not, because they are secret. And I thought that, towards the end of the previous term, you were leading the work of that Commission, particularly in the decisions that were then adopted at the public meeting of the National Assembly, right. Then that was my decision, too, so I decided. Today's not gonna be my decision. I will say what happened several times that I was interrupted myself, but I am probably not known in the National Assembly after having some kind of hate speech or offensive speech; at least by the criteria set between you and Mrs Potrate, I do not see myself in either of the other Members. But there have been interruptions. And one more thing, you have now decided that the topic will not be on the agenda. I'm talking about the last topic, the financial and banking topic. Let me remind you that you actually set a fine example for me. I will try to imitate you as a new Member at the next meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and in this way I will also decide and follow you. And then don't be surprised by the coalition if there might be something on the agenda. You were talking about the need for interaction at the meetings. I agree with that. So there must be some kind of mutual communication. Let me remind you that the working body I was running was the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, last year's, I don't know, I think May, convened without me. He was summoned by someone else, called by the Vice-President, and there was no interaction, but there was a "mono action" by coalition members who passed a law through the President, past every member of the opposition. I said back then that I would suggest to Vice President Tsukati that he convene a meeting of the National Assembly, just past you. But why not, if the coalition convened a committee meeting by my side, then if we interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as such, the opposition may also convene a meeting by your side; I do not know what they would do. But the coalition did. What a great deal there has been today's speech here by many Members, Mrs Potrata, Mr Potočnik has now made a nice speech, Mr Saiovic has good comparisons, and I will make a comparison. You've all talked about how extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or working bodies are, and so on, it's not necessary for them to be nebulosy, but I haven't looked at the dictionary yet, what does it mean that we're blocking the work of the coalition, that we're disrupting the work of the coalition, that we're making trouble for you and so on. Yeah, but look! There's nothing real about these demands of the opposition, everything's made up, everything's sneezing and so on. No, gentlemen! Look at the National Assembly. That half clapped when Minister Pogačnik left. The Prime Minister said he was behind him. Today, look at the media, the seven corrupt practices in the Baricevic case, which we discussed a lot. Is that the nebulosis or what? Are these unwarranted demands? They're not for me. We in the National Assembly had interpellation and talked a lot about problems and problems and, for my understanding, the corrupt behaviour of Minister Kresalova, even though he really recognized it and did not support it. Are these unjustified demands? Are these our unjustifiable demands that disturb you? We attack institutions, someone said, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the President of the State, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has some instruments that are prescribed in the constitution, which are prescribed in the law, and these are interpretations, these are constitutional accusations, these are extraordinary meetings if you want in the Rules of Procedure, and so on. That we're taking advantage of it? Look at him, you piece of shit! I expect you to convene a mono-session of the National Assembly without opposition and change the constitution and laws, and we will return to the period before 1990. So, shouldn't we use these instruments? Don't talk like that. You're calling from another system. I don't think that's right. He was also obvious, the president you said, yes, ask Jankovic. We can't ask Jankovic. We have put forward a draft agenda for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss these loans. And they'd say, yeah, that's the relationship between the independent entity Jankovic and some bank. All right, all right. Who put that bank up? Who is the one where the state still owns this bank? Who's gonna fix it tomorrow when this 150 million, or how much credit is supposed to go on, is not going to be repaid? Then it will be a matter of all citizens. All citizens will pay for it. No! No! Now all citizens are not entitled to such a meeting. What a duplicity! When it comes to drawing money from taxpayers - yes, when it comes to discussing why it is so, they are not entitled to it. I'm sorry, it's a duplicity. The impressions that someone didn't get up, you're going to force me, no one told me not to get up when the president of the country walked into parliament, and even if someone ordered me to do it, I wouldn't respect it. I'll take care of it myself. As long as the President of the country insults some of the citizens I represent, it is not my duty to stand up. But you call it culture or not, whatever you want. The content of the demands is devastating, desperate, and so on. One of the requirements was to interpellate if 136, 125, and 11 thousand euros, which Mr Pogačnik puts in his pocket, is a devastating request, is for those who are defending the Minister. And everyone you've ever advocated, for my understanding, visually, you've come to your feet with an iron ball. Go with her! And the President of the Government doubles! You're dating her because that's not your choice! Go with her! There's no problem for me. Systematic destruction of institutions, once again, just another sentence. If you believe that interpellations, extraordinary meetings, constitutional initiatives, demands and so on the demolition of institutions are, then you are defending the situation before 1990. However, if you respect the Constitution and the laws in which the interpretations are made, the extraordinary sessions and so on are envisaged, please tell us that you respect this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Perhaps the questions we are discussing are not at all appropriate or meaningless. However, I must say that there is a great question to me whether the ground on which we have come to discuss these issues is the request for a resolution of the President of the National Assembly; and secondly, the big question is whether the space, that is, the plenary meeting of the National Assembly, is an appropriate place to discuss how one of us understands this or another provision of the Rules of Procedure. And as to the first question of whether the cause is justified, I must say no. It is not justified, even if the President of the National Assembly did not convene a meeting which you thought should be convened, that was true - and I am convinced that the President did the right thing; but also, if it were true - to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the discharge of the President to this account, it is far from unfounded, in addition to baselessly excessively and inadvertently. He cannot have, because you know well that in this case, the President has enough votes in the coalition, and otherwise, because you have failed to win even the Slovenian People's Party, which is the opposition party, for your request, not to be resolved. So what's the point? The point is to talk about issues that will not give rise to your conviction, but to debate that the work of the National Assembly is wrong, that it is based on the distinction between the rights that the coalition has against the opposition, that such conduct and such an atmosphere is being cultivated to a large extent by the President of the National Assembly, and if any of these were true, then of course the debate would be worth it - but it is not true! But as you now accuse, you create the feeling that the work of the National Assembly is not right and thus diminish the reputation and functioning of the National Assembly. However, I think that one of the first responsibilities or qualities that each Member should have is that of knowingly, and especially the largest opposition parliamentary group, does not diminish the reputation of the National Assembly. Accurate statements about what is done wrong certainly help. Look, today we've discussed a lot about when, when, when, we can't interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, I must say, the President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of the meeting have the power to interpret the Rules of Procedure. The leader of the parliamentary group of the main opposition party does not have this power. This does not mean that there can be no distinction here at any time, nor can the leader of the parliamentary group or any member be entitled to the presidency's visa, but this is not the reason why his discharge is proposed, nor should there be a reason in the normal functioning of Parliament that, because of this, those who think otherwise, do not act in a manner that does not take into account his position in the course of chairing the meeting, that he is constantly objecting to him that, if possible or even sometimes he complains and yells at him, this is simply not proper conduct for the reputation of the Parliament's functioning. That's not the right thing to do. Mr. Tanko, I didn't say you were yelling, but when I said that he'd object many times and he wants to have the last word, I'm adding that, especially to you. Since this applies both to the debates in the College and to many times at the meeting of the National Assembly and it simply does not recognise the authority of the one who has the right to assess, under the rules of procedure, what is right in the present case, in his opinion. It may also be wrong, but he has a duty to judge this and it is only in this way that he can lead the meeting. If he is objected to, any explanation that, someone says "no, but this is slightly different" and abuses the rules of procedure even in such a way that when it is no longer a matter of substance, he says he will discuss procedurally, not procedurally, but substantively. There are many such things that you, ladies and gentlemen, serve or serve, that I will not exclude myself, which are not appropriate for the normal functioning of the National Assembly. And if it hurts me when I hold a session or when I don't run it, it's a disregard for the well-meaning warnings given by the president when he asks, "Let's focus on the content, try to talk about what's on the agenda, reduce the tension in words, consider whether it's not also accusations that aren't justified," and instead of at least by silently trying to hurt a Member or a Member who's been warned to continue doing so, but start talking, because I'm doing what I'm about to be interrupted, I won't allow myself. Is this appropriate for the normal functioning of Parliament? And since the President of the National Assembly holds the most meetings and holds most of the meetings in moments that may be expected to conflict, he has the most of such situations, and then one of you tells him, because it is the hardest thing to do with him, with all the other vice-presidents, it is easier to read the order of recorded debaters and give you the word and wait. We're listening and we're waiting for him to say something like that because he'd be in doubt! But we have to warn you or not. Therefore, I really think that the substantive issues can be justified, but the reasons for the request for a discharge by the President of the National Assembly are not, however, at a regular or extraordinary meeting. I would also like to propose today at the College of Presidents that we agree on how we understand the Rules of Procedure, perhaps through the Business Commission in preparation and also through the College of the National Assembly on certain matters. I, ladies and gentlemen, in many ways understand in a different way than you understand the proponents of this session. Maybe it's different than the rule of law or the president of the National Assembly. For I believe that in addition to the formal procedure required, one Member, ten Members, a quarter of Members and so on, which is the first condition, the requirement must be linked to the content of the Council. When you read the Rules of Procedure to me and you talk about how the Rules of Procedure say that working bodies deal with all issues. Yes, it does, but all the questions within the competence of the National Assembly, because otherwise the working body could also judge whether a specific judgment given in some case is appropriate or not, or whether in another instance it will be decided by a working body rather than by a competent court. Now I know that I've made an extreme adjustment, and no one has ever suggested it. Similar things have already been proposed. Rather, they would be authorized by the National Assembly to decide things that were not his jurisdiction. And the third thing I'm going to say is you're going to be surprised. I think that, in addition to the first two conditions I have said, an appropriate procedure must be chosen to deal with them. If we have a procedure for the legislative procedure, then we have it to take a decision and it says what the decision is, I won't read it to you because you know it. You know what a control function is, you know what the question is, we know what it is between us. Let's say it's a specific case. After the request for a debate on a particular issue raised by the Minister or the Prime Minister has been rejected, the signatures require that the same topic be re-examined in the National Assembly and that this is an corrective procedure. It's not for me. Since that group that so requires does not agree that a decision at least at some stage may be final and that the requirement cannot be continuously renewed. I must say, there would be a lot of things worth talking about. There are a lot of things we might even be able to agree on. All together, however, should take greater care of the reputation of the National Assembly as well as of those who preside over the National Assembly. Each of us has walked around the European democratic parliaments on numerous occasions, not telling me that it is the custom for the President to be insulted or that his views in the management of the meeting are not taken into account. He has many more powers than we have given him, and much more respect. In a number of parliaments, objections to the President's holding of the meeting are the biggest error or the most wrongful conduct of the Member, which may also result in removal from the sitting. Let's give a little more thought in this direction and I think we'll be more pleased with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. When I listen to the arguments of today's point, sometimes I get the feeling that they are similar to already known cases elsewhere in the world and have as much in common as, for example, the People's Republic of China, or sometimes the German Democratic Republic of Germany. We hear how the opposition does not come to the word that the chairman does not convene an extraordinary meeting on his discharge. But we still don't know why an extraordinary session would be better than a regular session if it were called an extraordinary one. Today we have every opportunity to listen to the arguments for resolution at the regular sitting, and you still insist that this should be an extraordinary meeting. On the other hand, even in the College, President Paul Gantar was asked whether he had the right to defend himself when we were talking about who could and who could not speak about it. In a similar way, as you said, we didn't want to discuss Ultra. Not that we had a special session for this, every time it's just an opportunity, you mention it. And if we're talking about health or agriculture. And even in this case, Gregor Golobič had to make a great effort to come to the investigative commission as an investigator and answer the questions you set up. There you were not most fortunate to have come because he rejected all of your claims, which you had repeatedly repeated six months earlier. I think that you will have to meet this meeting, although it will not be called extraordinary, but it will show that President Paul Gantar has worked so far and will work in the future as his function does.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Brultz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u68	Nicely greeted! I think today's session is unnecessary if we consider a whole bunch of lectures on understanding democracy. That's what I'd say. The opening statements of the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Gantar, were made by a cold shower on everyone when he addressed you as city saints. It's a reflection of intelligence. And this has happened here twice, even at the interpretation of Minister Kresalova, because you have also cooled down very quickly in the introduction. I am convinced that much effort has been made to ensure that the state does not function, that citizens feel that everything is wrong and that the opposition is solving the problems. But the truth is, you invite people to the rally, to the protests, and you cook hot soup, which you'll probably find very difficult to eat. According to your President of the National Assembly, I should not have commented on the statements made by Members, should not have expressed my opinion, should not have answered the objection or anything else. I'll tell you that the same is true in the local community. As a mayor, when I hold a meeting, I should not defend myself, I should not give my opinion, but the difference is that I do not have the right to vote. Thus, all those who hold such and other sessions, including the vice-presidents, are, in fact, one of the poor. Your attempt to demolish authority is, of course, to your detriment. And that's obvious from day to day. Just remember when the president of the country came to Parliament and you didn't get up. Previously, Dr. Gorenak said he didn't get up for that and that. He shouldn't have gotten up because someone upstairs told you not to get up. But it's a sign of culture and it's over. Since some had already indicated that they would rise, they had to take possession. Remember the attack on Dr. Drnovsk on a plane ticket, so I don't speak any further. And I could even list it. By such actions, you are undermining the reputation of this House. And I'm going to fight these things publicly. It is now also the turn of the extraordinary meeting, a statement by the President of the Government and you will organise, in fact, on the subject that the National Assembly has not notified the organisation of the referendum, this will be a debate on your views, free of charge, media transmitted and I think this is very wrong and that this is not necessary. Mrs. Irgle, the Vipava Storm is picking you up, isn't it? I don't think it's Dr. Gantar's problem today. The problem is Jankovic. And if you have anything against him, prepare your application. I've been getting this a lot, and in eight years, there hasn't been another one that makes my head ache. Sign here and let them know who's doing anything wrong. I hope you know or you don't think I'm going to support this interpretation, not at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, when I listen to this debate in this almost empty hall, I am actually sorry that we are in such a small number here. I think today is an opportunity - and this is happening - to discuss our work in more detail. About the part of this National Assembly. Well, I'm not saying anything, mate, of course my colleagues are gone, and your colleagues are gone, and there is no one else. But we're talking about each other. If there is an attack on the President of the National Assembly because of one of the business regulations that you are interpreting in some way, and we are, in another way, asking for the resignation and replacement of the President of the National Assembly, the most important political body in the country, then I really don't know where you're going to bring this country. Today I remembered one of my conversations, which I had just over 20 years ago, when I was a correspondent for Slovenian television in Belgrade, with the first secretary of the US Embassy. That's when the gentleman at a reception said to me, "Oh, now you Slovenians are going to win." And I said, "Yeah, sure." I was happy, proud and explained how much more democratic we are in Yugoslavia than others, how enlightening we are to others, and others do not understand us, so we must go on our own and so on. And then the gentleman smiled and said, "You're doing the right thing. But in order to achieve true democracy, it will take you 20 to 50 years." I was indignant at the time, I'll tell you. I said, with what right, with what paternalism the Americans are now addressing us Slovenians. But I find that Mr. was right. We don't understand the fundamental rules of democracy here. You are colleagues - not from the opposition - from the Slovenian Democratic Party, because some others in this opposition sometimes behave slightly differently, but you have replaced Parliament with Hyde Park. Not just with the city council. You think that Parliament is a place where you can talk about every thing that comes to mind. And what is the basis for this? The basis is newspaper articles. For extraordinary sessions, for emergency sessions, I don't know what else. The basis is newspaper articles with insinuations, newspaper articles that are sometimes not insinuations, but are the result of some real decisions. I tell you, I am a novelty in this House, this is my first call to work, but I am not a novelty in knowledge of parliamentary practice. I have visited a lot of foreign parliaments in my previous jobs and also in my current capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Nowhere in the developed European countries will you see that they actually have a permanent session of national assemblies. We are working from morning to evening only because of your demands for emergency and emergency meetings, and for questions that are not at all essential to this country in these difficult times of crisis. Of course, all of you then plead that your scenario is not to demolish the institutions of this system. Of course it is. That's pretty obvious. So far, you've gone for everything except one institution. But that's something to defend. That's the state's attorney's office. I haven't quite settled for that institution yet, even though I am a member of the committee where this has been discussed. But you know, we know why the D.A. Because there's someone sitting at the head of that institution who tastes like you. Because the basic logic of this democracy of yours is: it is only what we think. And Mr Gantar gave a little earlier to all of us, including me, I must say, although he taught me his first lesson in democracy at the university when he taught me, but today he also gave us again lessons on how to behave in the National Assembly. I was angry with him a number of times when he interrupted me. He interrupted me especially when, for example, I objected to your statements in explanation of vote. We don't have that right under the rules of procedure. And he's right to interrupt me. It confuses me a little bit. And I'd like to tell you, he's repeatedly pulling us out of a coalition like you from the opposition. Believe me. Philosophy must be something. It cannot be based solely on bare business matters, Mr Tanko. As you misinterpret the articles in the arbitration agreement and say, 1st point to, 2nd point to, 3rd point, this is how you read the Rules of Procedure. It's a whole business. The Rules of Procedure are due to the constitution we have adopted. And after all, let me read now, if you've forgotten what the main tasks of the National Assembly are. I quote from our website: "The National Assembly shall adopt the Constitution or its amendments, laws, other general acts, its Rules of Procedure, authentic interpretations of laws and consolidated texts of laws, state budget, budget rebalance and final account, ratifying international treaties and signing referendums..." Did you see any stadiums here? Or you have seen foreign ambassadors here who you do not like, but of course there is no debate about them in any jurisdiction of the National Assembly. And things like that. We have to get back to the beginning. But above all, I think you've gotten yourself together, and now I would like to say something more about the President of this National Assembly, Mr. Gantar, personally. This is a man of great breadth. It is a man with a man's width, human width, educational and democratic breadth. Mr Gantar advocated democracy when most of us were silent and took part in demonstrations, he warned in colleges about all these matters. And this democracy he advocated, and human rights, as a young man, he is also exercising it here today. You've got the wrong guy. You've got the wrong guy. I'm very sorry, and I can't at all confirm your initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Klasinc, for us, newspapers are also the basis for our work, but free of charge has not failed. With regard to the interpretation of the arbitration agreement, I do not know how the President of the Government interprets the arbitration agreement if the demanta from the Croatian side comes after each public tribunal. Every single one of them. And that is also why we want to discuss the new facts arising from the call for a legislative referendum. Does anyone in the coalition know how to explain this? [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Why does this always happen? [[...]] And even before Mr. Potsch spoke. He's got a lot on account of those who are watching the visas, but I can see he can't see back or around himself. It's very easy to have double criteria. And that's exactly what this meeting of the National Assembly is about, and that's why, because the President allows himself to have double criteria. And before that, I asked him to make a good statement on the basis of which provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure have a discretionary right not to order anything and on the basis of which provisions of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure or Law neither Bank Slovenia nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should listen or report to the National Assembly. We respect all the principles of authority because we have written in accordance with constitutional, business and I do not yet know what provisions to do this. The President of the National Assembly has not yet replied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Rogers. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Richter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since my predecessors have already said a lot, I might be left alone in what he mentioned at the outset or told the President of the National Assembly that he, by his conscience and by his decision, made decisions and also acted in the sense of good for the people. And if he has convened this conversation or debate about his non-trust and has included it in the agenda of the regular session, I can believe that he has done a good job, as this has not increased the number of extraordinary meetings that will, I am sure, at the end of your report due to their number as a good success in the work of the opposition. I want to say that when people look at us and listen to us, not least those who have chosen us and trusted us to do good work in the National Assembly, it is just the purpose of the National Assembly, and therefore I cannot support the President's discharge because I know that he works well and especially for the people. To lead the National Assembly in the sense of unification, at least to try to listen to the content and things that are good for all of us, for all of the Slovenians. When I examined the magnetograms, the meetings and debates and the President's initiatives, I found that he really tried and repeatedly also appealed to all of us to be positive at least for a few moments at some common points. This is what all Slovenians expect of us, not least of all. And you probably hear that on the road, at home, in the family, maybe even in those families that sent their students to Ljubljana the day before yesterday. That is why I say again, I trust the President of the National Assembly, in his leadership and in his decisions. There can be no reason to debate his discharge of decisions whether this is being discussed at a regular or extraordinary meeting. You just mentioned, colleagues, that pumping is for your work, for discussion and meditation is also for newspapers. Now I could ask myself which officers and what contributions. We will probably have the opportunity to discuss the media in the near future, as we are facing media legislation. And also what our Slovenes read, not least the inhabitants, but everyone reads a little differently; after that, they do not end up judging and deciding. What the media is writing about and what their mission is, but it's another story. That is why I trust all of us who speak loud and clear words here and listen to each other. And the purpose of our President of the National Assembly was to be heard and heard, not least for the sake of all of us. As a result, the numbers of extraordinary meetings that have now been picked up are 23 and 17 regulars, and they can be the standard and probably what kind of creature pays for the bell. Unfortunately, however, I cannot escape the fact that there is much or perhaps even one interest in today's opposition to raise attention at a time and a time when we would like to stand together. Let us walk together in situations where good times are in store and when it is necessary to ask ourselves when and how and how we are finally being joined, if anything else. This is probably a question that some often wonder when, not here in the National Assembly or on the road, we talk to people in our home environment and not least to some Members. It is already by speaking here in one language, talking in the hallways in another language and in the environment in a third language. We're skinny or we're making faces, but let's look the truth in the eye, and not least it's true. I think it would be good to think in this debate, today's confidant or non-confidential to our President of the National Assembly, that we are really talking to the people who are watching us in front of television screens, to really say that some of us really want to work together, and that in the crucial moments or not, at least in the last minute, we would be able to hear and unify ourselves. Last but not least, that's what people, our voters, expect us to do. You know, we Slovenians are a very hardworking nation, which gives a lot to values in the family environment. As a result of this, political flight, policy irritation is very poor and dissatisfaction. And what is the virtue of President Gantar, but it is precisely that he can be harsh to us and to you of the opposition. But you obviously don't see it well or recognize it. I would like many times not to be so keen on us, President Gantar, so sometimes it would be good to be tougher on the opposition, but I must say that I am the first term in the National Assembly as a Member, and I can find in my review or past experience that the leadership of President Gantar is very successful, good and trustworthy. Because of this and, in particular, because of those arguments or proposals that you have made in the opposition, I cannot possibly take either seriously or argumentatively any less in order to contribute to any better confidence or even work in the National Assembly. That is why I fully support President Gantar and I believe that we will end our mandate and all the successes and promises we have made to our voters and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar? He's not here. Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u76	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! My opinion is as follows. There is no need to defend Dr. Paul Gantar, because he himself defends these pointless accusations with good work, the good conduct of our Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I won't say it again. I won't defend you. I will even less defend the Ljubljana mayor, who I have spent more than 10 years with him in constant controversy in the field of sport. But I think it's an ideal opportunity, because it's not on the agenda, as many have already found, the President of the National Assembly, but the Stadium of the Staff and the Sports Hall. And this has its history and I think it is necessary to discuss this, because the Slovenian public knows very little about the background. In order not to be misunderstood, I personally think that although I am emotionally tied to Halo Tivola, Ljubljana should have another suitable sports hall long ago and that Ljubljana should have a suitable stadium. From here on out, of course, I have my own views. Four years ago - October 22, 2006 was the first round of local elections. On Monday, October 23rd, there was a well-known phone call that ordered variant B. What is this variant B that you will not think I'm talking about military or police decisions. This was a version of the amendment of the Law on Community Financing, which was adopted at an extraordinary meeting on 17 November 2006 and which, in 2006 instead of the corresponding €131,5 million, Ljubljana has awarded a sufficient €95 million. At the start, Ljubljana lost 30 million euros. That's the point. Until then, Ljubljana, which generates 21-22% in the mass of Slovenian income, also received a corresponding share of the share. Ljubljana represents 13% of the Slovenian population and the new marriage solution is awarded only 11% of the necessary resources. Today, seniors are trying to set some record with participation in a book, but I think - we have a record that should have been long ago in this book: there is no capital in Europe where the available financial resources under the law would amount to 83% of the average recognised as an area of municipalities. This capital is not in Europe. Excuse me. At least in the Europe we imagine. The nearest on the north side is 2.33 times the average, not 83. And here's the point. Someone decided to punish Ljubljana because she chose an unsympathetic, for someone, the mayor, while also punishing Maribor, Celje, Kranj, Koper as collateral damage, not to mention further. Some of us have been lucky or unhappy to have built such sports halls more. I have a personal experience from the Milka Planinc period, 100% ban on public funds. But then we convinced the people of self-contribution, and the sports hall was created. There was no money in the new country, and we invented congregation bonds, and we built a hall. That's not possible today. Today, the only form is this unfortunate public-private partnership. Interestingly, the proponents do not criticize this unfortunate law that you have succeeded in bringing through the National Assembly in your mandate, and we are not all honoured. And as I told my colleague, Montenegro, when he said we didn't want to discuss it, we'd be happy to discuss the public-private partnership agreement, the Stożices. All the instruments and procedural options were to bring this to the agenda of the competent working body or anyone else. No, that's just not what you wanted. You wanted us to discuss a potential loan. I agree in a very small part with you that it can be problematic if someone decides to lend this project at the moment. This was not problematic two years or three years ago when the project was decided in some other circumstances. Today, I am sure, despite these political pressures, that a serious bank in situations such as data we have, if it is objective, that because of such a questionable public-private partnership, which is legal because we have such a bad marriage and such a questionable law that experts say it would be best if we quickly say goodbye to it. Of course, we should then consider at least a hundred contracts in the National Assembly or more, after Slovenia, which are smaller by scale, but are the same or even more problematic. And in that part, it would be possible to discuss in the National Assembly, as a representative of the owner, if you would like, if a potential bank would approve the loan. However, this loan did not happen. I doubt he'll even build up and maybe from any other point of view. The fundamental problem is that someone took the minimal financial autonomy of the capital and other cities in Slovenia, within which they could carry out such or other facilities with all their responsibility. And I must make it clear that now and always, when it comes to the agenda, I will object that anywhere in the country would build a hall or stadium, although this has happened in the past that individual ministers were able to take pictures when the country participates, because this is simply not the case. Let us remember that the Olympic Games organize cities, not states, and that there is no reason. It is also not an honor for the current coalition to fail to respond adequately to such an unacceptable law. That law about the capital, I'm stroking, it's not in honor of the state and this coalition, and I take it personally as an inappropriate reaction to an illegal intervention in public finances. Of course, this has nothing to do with today's point of view that this would be the reason for the president's dismissal, so I'm not going to talk about it, and I'm not going to talk about other people. As far as business is concerned, there's only one sentence. These findings are possible because the rules of procedure for my taste are catastrophically bad. However, respected signatories, at least one of the signatories, should be less embarrassed if he remembered some of the events in the previous term when the stenograms were arranged to defend his minister, who did not hope through the door and what else and when you silenced us, we should be quieter because the smart ones shut up, only that you were defending illegal jumps or if you want incidents of your coalition partners. At least those should be embarrassed about that signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Perhaps this judgment would have been the accusation of Comrade Trofenik on the spot if he had not been the one who read the minutes of the meeting of his working body, which was falsified, which was neither in conformity with the vote nor with the content. We also pointed out this to the College of the National Assembly, here and so on. Another matter was, Your Honor, Trophenic. Not long ago, you addressed the request for an extraordinary meeting and replaced the text in the request for an extraordinary meeting. Text did not match. It is very difficult to accept criticism from those who have already done so in this mandate twice in a very short time, once in the Pomour Act, and once in the request for an extraordinary session convened by Mr Anderlich and others. Sorry, that's right. And it doesn't make sense to build on your interpretations, your accusations, or the critics of those we've proposed, if you've obviously done this kind of discourse yourself. No member and no president of the working body has ever been able to afford such manipulation in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u82	This last sentence of manipulation is your own and you attribute it to yourself. And stop underscoring that I made the only mistake of signing the record in which there was a mistake. And you're trying to pin this on me. But to replace what you've just said, what kind of text, especially in the Pomura Act. This is because you belong to an emissary group who wanted to boast in Pomour that it has the merit of adopting this law. These are the texts when your colleagues wrote you thanks. But you weren't even at the board meeting, and make sure that one of your own representatives was at the board meeting that night. And stop manipulating yourself. That's your manipulation. Because when you run out of arguments, you strike with arguments against my claims what you did with the law one day after the 2006 elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, there's no replica to the replica. But as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Trophynik. I don't know what you did with the Pomura Act. Although you have also been covered by the views of your fellow Members of the coalition groups. But the fact is, you read the text here this morning, and six mistakes were made in that amended bill. Six mistakes. Regrettably, there were content inside that was not covered by the vote either because a different solution had been voted on than in the amended proposal of the law. Who made the mistakes here, I don't know, but you're responsible because you're the president of the working body and you get the reward and the pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u85	Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u86	[[Started talking without a microphone.]] And the purpose, but you lied. [[...]] There was no error in the law, and there were errors in the record made by the office. Since employees had to work, ask them how many hours — 30 hours from now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. If we didn't know so many things to complicate, we could say that it's very simple. The Rules of Procedure shall specify how, when and in what way an extraordinary or regular meeting shall be convened. And if the business requirements are met by Members, then such a meeting must also be convened. It is clear what are the possibilities, what are the levers to control the coalition and the government as well. These things just need to be held together and not changed as someone likes them. The presidents have already said why we proposed to replace the President of the National Assembly or why we think he is not doing his job well. However, we have not mentioned an event or a problem that we have encountered. When we have discussed or are still considering the Family Code, which we like to say is a key law in the field of family law, and because the public interest was very great to be present at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have put forward a proposal in our parliamentary group to the President of the National Assembly that there should be a meeting in this room, because there is no room in the Tomšič Hall for all who wish to attend the meeting - and our work is also public - so it must be possible for the professional public to be present - but this was not possible. At the first letter, the President replied that this space was not intended for this purpose, but only for plenary sessions, although we know that many things are happening in this Chamber do not have the status of a plenary session of the National Assembly. And when the meeting was postponed, we proposed again, and we did not receive an answer to this second letter from the President of the National Assembly. We want to talk about some things, and we think it's the right thing to want to talk about them. Earlier mention was made of what loans had been made and what the banks had done in the previous mandate. If that were the case, the opposition would probably have convened an extraordinary meeting, suggested that things would be cleared up, or you cannot say that today. However, we had a series of extraordinary meetings on various subjects, related only to newspaper articles or even less. Our concern is that we do not have another affair that is full in this government, and there would be nothing new. If they're not government members, they're close friends. And even in this case, as it all appears, in the case of the Staff, something like this may happen to us. Now comes information on how things are not being paid, how friends are involved, which Mr Jankovic was solving in some cases. The Commission of Inquiry was also mentioned, which I am leading, what we have done or not on the commission of inquiry, whether we are effective or not. What we have asked Mr Jankovic is, of course, a matter of the Commission, members of the Commission, and we will certainly ask him what else we will ask. We really didn't have it on Headquarters because we didn't have all the data. However, obviously we are not so ineffective, because Mr Kos has already asked for magnetograms and will obviously be dealing with this, i.e. for magnetograms of hearings, even the President of the National Assembly is extremely interested in what is happening on our investigative committee, he has sent me a letter that he wants all the data and documents concerning his client president, Mr Golobic, so he obviously supports our work and wants us to do all these things as much as possible. And also with other things that have been posted here, we will be dealing with paediatrically, and with what is certain, because it is in the plan of the commission of inquiry and we will do so. We have no problems with the stadium, but we have problems dealing with things this way, not us, but the Ljubljana mayor. He presented this as a project based on a public-private partnership. He then found that from this public-private partnership for which he had adopted an act in the city council, in which article 3 states: "The private partner will have to fully secure the financing of the facility." Then he managed to raise only 40 million, but he found out or all of us can see that financial planning was very poor. They started without any serious financial business plan, no one knew exactly how much the matter would cost, and even less what financial resources they had. Everything was based on some expectations of what would happen and what would happen. But everyone at home probably knows if he's making a house, that he needs at least what he is, to have a calculation of how much it's gonna cost him. And since they forgot about the outdoors and one extra football field during the construction, construction is increasing and there is no problem again if it provides the money as needed. The problem arises when the state banks, that is to say, our mutuals promise 150 million aid and then we will end up solving it. The problem is that banks have serious problems solving the economy and lending to entrepreneurs who would really need them and use them wisely. That's why we're interested, and that's why we wanted to talk about it. And I am sure that we should discuss this, the President of the National Assembly has prevented it, so I support the proposal that we have put forward in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Levanic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today's debate is not a surprise. Today's debate is part of a broader scenario, which, after all, the opposition SDS announced soon after the start of this mandate. As soon as our work began, we witnessed an event of political blackmail, which so far had not been a couple, when the SDS conditioned the ratification of the agreement on Croatia and Albania's entry into NATO, and it made this conditional on something that had nothing to do with this ratification and with NATO. I was surprised at the fact that, as a group of Members, I now know them better, the responsible and rational people, decided to put the country's international credibility at stake only in order to force Members of the other groups to vote on something completely unrelated, not on their conscience, but on the conscience of the SDS. This, however, followed the stage when the opposition tried to show its constructive face and proposed some laws and measures to which we did not object because we were illegal, but because we did not agree with their content. A different view of creating an economy is a perfectly legitimate field of confrontation between opinions, views and arguments between different political groups. But this stage was soon over when the SDS champion announced that we are now awaiting the time when the street will happen and that the fundamental institutions of our country are at stake, and that it is time for another, most likely meant the SDS, the Republic. And it started. This was soon followed by a proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Republic of Danil Türk, in which the main purpose was to undermine the reputation of the main institution in the country, to eat up its legitimacy, despite the fact that, during the economic and resulting social tensions, it raises questions about the stability of the whole country, which is a state of all of us. Only because it is driven by the desire for destabilisation, in which the opposition is expected to regain power. Then, as foretold, there was a street. Janša predicted it. It happened to her the day before yesterday. But there is nothing wrong with the street as long as it is a peaceful warning and a confrontation of arguments, but when it is turned into general drunkenness and urban violence, it is no longer a street, but another attack on the stability of the state and its institutions, which are here to defend democracy that protects all of us: opposition, coalition, red, black, pink, white, blue, all. Now, according to this scenario, a request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, which is included in this scenario as another cube in the mosaic. But this mosaic together shows destabilisation, extraordinary conditions, chaos. And it is not in the interest of anyone, nor of those who so desire to gain power. Not even those. The National Assembly is not all-powerful. Messengers and Members are not all-powerful. The debate is also not comprehensive, because we simply do not talk about some private and business issues because we do not have this right because we are not omnipotent. What it would be like to request an extraordinary meeting to discuss what the private finances of one of the Members are like, to know where the public money that this Member receives through his monthly salary goes. Very similar. What would it look like if such an extraordinary session were required? It's probably very strange. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Freedom of speech is in force in the National Assembly. But this freedom ends where the freedom of others begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, as far as inviting people to the streets. You pushed them into the streets because you don't respect social dialogue. They've already put unions in this term. Now you've driven students into the streets and there's a lot more that might happen through these things. Among them was the great support of these student riots, and also your former candidate, Mr Semolic of SD, was on your list. And some of your underage members were very recognizable. But when you talk about how we could be more concerned about spending resources, think of some kind of public invitation to tender already in this mandate, when some may have jumped some 10 or even 100 places of order because Members may have skipped some 10 or even 100 places of order, and then received a co-financed programme after the appeal. Unfortunately, they are also Members of the National Assembly. And the use of these public funds, respected colleague Yuri, will probably need to open a debate in the National Assembly. Because it was public funds, because it was tenders, heavy changes in invitations to tender, overstepping, skipping a hundred and more cities after the appeal was made within the coalition. These are public funds, and I suggest that you prepare yourself a request for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u94	There's no problem on the street. As long as the street is a normal confrontation of some arguments. But when the streets become violent, when we cannot do our own work anymore, that is the problem. And we know that some have called to the streets, not to dialogue, but to the streets. Social dialogue is as open as it has ever been. The government's response was very clear; dialogue with students continues if they have proposals. They've probably been in your task force, too. They were in ours. Our answer, when they were with us, was, we were waiting for concrete proposals. I went to see if any of the proposals could have been put on some of the granite cubes that came to the National Assembly, and it wasn't even there. So far, the only criticism, the reasoned criticism we received, was granite cubes. We are waiting for concrete proposals because dialogue needs two interlocutors. If others, instead of coming to talk, throw stones at you, this dialogue is difficult. As for the other issues raised in any use of public funds, what we are talking about is all legitimate and open. And I'm waiting, I expect that any question in relation to if there is an explanation. As far as I know, there are always clear pathways for all procedures where funds are allocated and can also be withdrawn if they are not properly used. And I am also of the opinion that if the funds are not used correctly, they should also be taken away. And if there will be arguments for any withdrawal of any funds and these arguments will, of course, be designed, formalised, I think they will have to be fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. It's about social dialogue. When we adopted the 2010 and 2011 budget, the government introduced an emergency intervention law - Mr President will surely recall that was not in line with the social partners. Although this was an urgent procedure, it did not wish to put to the vote an urgent procedure and we did not consider it at the first next meeting as requested. Today we had a meeting in our parliamentary group with representatives of trade unions who said how this social dialogue was going on, nobody cares, doesn't accept them, doesn't listen to them. It is not social dialogue what the President of the Government says, we have met, we have photographed and we have come to each other. Social dialogue is a conversation, it's an agreement. And this is not: not with students, not with pensioners, not with employees and not with employers, not with anyone. Social dialogue is not a photo term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that it is a truly interesting, patient debate worthy of the Slovenian Parliament, in which many things have been mixed up in the political pre-election pot with this one-wing plant. Let's do it in one order at a time. First of all, as far as our President Ganttar is concerned. I must say that for every country, the flag, the coat of arms, the anthem has a greater symbolic meaning. This is how Parliament holds it as a country and also as its President. And his president's office, of course, is not a cloth or a broom to rub dust and garbage. In particular, if a man has his back, his past, his history, and I must say that I am proud of Mr Gantard as a Member, I am pleased that my captain is for various reasons. Let me count some of them. One, the last one, must have been his calm and measured performance during the demonstrations, the last week, which was a symbolic attack on Parliament. It's really weird. The law that was attacked and responded to by granite dialogue on the other hand has not been in Parliament at all. Because this law is not being dealt with by Parliament, and in spite of everything that has happened. Minister Svetlik has also made it clear several times that dialogue is still possible and has also set a deadline until when. Until the law is passed on to the government, it is possible. Secondly, I remember when Mr Gantar was Minister for Environment and Space. I guess a lot of people will agree with me that the only real environmental minister who has understood and solved the problems has completed the mandate and has completed it. And I am sure that, of course, he will continue to play this role by the end of his term of office. Another important spice in this pot is the stadium. Mr Jankovic promised that we would play at this stadium in June, July, but I am glad that it is already playing at this stadium. That he's got the meaning and attention he deserves. Surely, if we will ever again have the opportunity to play such a game as the one with Russia in Maribor, I am sure that there will be five times as many of us in this stadium in the capital. And if we want to be European comparable, then I am glad that this stadium is still building with the entire parallel structure. Of course, this is an investment with which Parliament does not have much in common, but I am sure that there will also be many critics at the opening of this story, as well as those from the municipal world, the urban Ljubljana, who have always smoked a lot so that it would not happen. I am happy and proud that Slovenia will receive such an object because it also deserves it. In the beginning, an interesting position was repeatedly expressed that investment in this stadium would never and never be restored. Yeah, listen up, folks and gentlemen, because sports facilities aren't something that should come back. Sports facilities are returning their stakes with attention, by generating citizens and citizens to their condition, health and, of course, to make use of their leisure time in accordance with their wishes and needs. I'm proud of Planica too, and she'll never make it back financially, and every school or sports playground we build in this country that never and never will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u99	Just a moment, Mr. Saiovic. Members and Members, I ask you to calm down a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In addition to every children’s playground and sports field that is built in this country and built many of them, as well as investments, there are investments in people, but it is not a bank investment or a deposit investment that would be either a deposit or a return. The next component of today's political unit is the Ljubljana Mayor Mr. Jankovic. I'm sure a lot of people are scared of the way and the way he came to this position. He was democratically elected directly. The vast majority of those who are and will sit and sit in the State Parliament will have this opportunity of direct election, and the importance of this will never and never be felt, because there are problems with the mayoral candidates in many municipalities, even in Ljubljana, they are still hiding well. The direct election, as we have the Slovenian mayors, as the President of the Slovenian State has, means the stressed, underlined trust of citizens, citizens or citizens. And when we read four-year public opinion polls, the satisfaction of citizens and citizens of Ljubljana with their mayor is solid. They're giving him credit, giving him solid grades, and he's got a lot on his plate. On the one hand, of course, it lists what was not made of his pre-election promises; on the other hand, of course, every success, every result, and many of them, accompanied by speculation, political play and more. This is simply not the right way, even this stadium story will be told by Ljubljana and Ljubljana on October 10th. If anyone shows up, regardless of which party and gains greater trust, we will, of course, congratulate him. On the other hand, there is a symbolic role - apparently a large part of the Slovenian opposition policy of the capital doesn't like it. He is addicted to winning, such as one normal, modern, European comparable football field. In Slovenia we will have one, two, three comparable. And the attitude towards the capital, to the white Ljubljana, to one of the symbols of Slovenk and Slovenes, hurts me too. Everyone would like to have the maximum standard in all Slovene municipalities, but there are many functions which are managed in Ljubljana on behalf and for account and also for service and for the benefit of all Slovenes and Slovenes. And that's why the capitals have some specific and some special meaning. Last but not least, I am pleased with the relative sobriety in this debate that out of more than 30 signatories to today's debate are present, let's say when is less, when is slightly more than 10. Everyone else has already figured out what this is all about. It is the reputation of this House, it is the reputation of our President. I am also pleased to hold many parties, such as the Slovenian People's Party, which was able to assess the appropriateness of this moment, that it is not a simple political account, but that it is something more. It is the reputation of Parliament and the reputation of Slovenia. That is why I do not want to undermine such a political solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Urh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Despite the fact that Members of the DeSUS and the party are many times, or sometimes we are not united in the coalition, but things are settled, we are completely united upon this request to replace the President of the National Assembly, and I firmly believe that this requirement was an empty shot by some opposition parties. Or if I say, the granite cube didn't hit that rose. Because we're people like us, we can always miss something. But I'm sure the one who doesn't do anything is the one who makes the most mistakes. Recently, in Slovenia, some prominent politicians have been calling through the media for people to go to the street or for collaboration or anything. We really need to think seriously about what's going on in this society. Parliament is the sacrament of the state. It's amazing all over the world, and that's what we have. I compare it about as Catholic believers in the Vatican would throw stones at St. Peter's church, so it happened last time in our Parliament. It will be very difficult to convince me that students and students know which office the President of the National Assembly is sitting in. Four granite cubes fell on the fourth floor, someone has to know this thing very well. Perhaps it was also a wish that today's session would not have been held. Look, Mr President, I know, and we also know that you are conducting these meetings of the National Assembly very properly and honestly, as well as the other three Vice-Presidents. Many times in this house are hurtful, if not even an enemy word, but so far you have properly saved them, which is not the hallmark of each one of us. So, Mr President, I would like to say to you, congratulations on your leadership so far. I want you to continue to lead the National Assembly with the upright attitude that you have so far. The DeSUS Members support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. President. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, there's not much time. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The discharge of the President of Parliament is proposed because the President did not convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, despite the relevant request. The President of the National Assembly was of the opinion that the discussion on the granting of bank loans to private companies or to the consortium of private companies is not the subject of discussion in this house. In the opposition, we are of the opposite opinion that the financing of ventured projects with indirect or direct taxation money is still the subject of a debate in the National Assembly. When faced with the economic and financial crisis, the consequences of the crisis, when faced with the devastating consequences for Europe and the euro, the so-called Greek case, we are aware that so far there has been a lack of control over public finances, not least of all over the management of public finances, both directly and indirectly. Now the world and Europe are working on how to detect in time the wrong trends, the wrong decisions, how to prevent the destructive scenarios we are witnessing to them. When they happen, it's too late, and then the tarnishings, yes, they've hidden the control mechanisms, there's no legal control, so the money has slipped, even though we've all worked as hard as we can, and there's been a black scenario. Respectful, agreeing to such an ostrich policy and keeping your head in the sand is simply too simple and can be devastating in the long run. We have also heard a whole lot of debates here today, if you normally, because investment in sport infrastructure cannot be profitable, but it is not a problem at all, dear colleagues and respected Mr Saiovic. That's not a problem at all. It is not a problem at all, we are aware that too little public money has probably been given to build the necessary sports, football stadium in Stožice and thus multi-purpose halls. Also in the mandate of the previous government, the former government has included this sport park, in a slightly different form, in a resolution of national projects, for which it has even provided money in the state budget. That's not a problem at all. The problem is that this project is also closely linked to a purely commercial, profitable economic project for the construction of a trading centre. And at first it was for this commercial project, which is closely connected, because it is both on the land of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the city councilors decided to go to a public-private partnership, and probably legitimately decided that their priority is the Sožice Business and Sports Centre, but not, for example, the regulation of transport in Ljubljana and other social, cultural and other projects, which are nothing in Ljubljana. All right, none of the opposition and conscripts of this extraordinary session has anything to do with it, but it is the citizens' legitimate decision that they want to have it and that they will give their public money to do so. Okay, that's not a problem either. The problem arises because the financial structure for the private, commercial part of the project is undermined when Delta exits the original Grep consortium. At that time, a gap of more than 100 million euros, 150 million euros, if not 200 million euros, will be created. Investment is also encouraged at the time of implementation. And that's when he starts looking for money for it instead of this investor. And then, of course, commercial banks, where the country has no key influence, are warming up this hot bone. Last time you could also track quotes from very famous Slovenian bankers who are located in other private banks. So when no one on economically justified grounds wants to finance this project, a state bank is called in, which is shot with politics. Let us remember how you recruited the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, appointed an elected MP to this place and therefore the policy led him to the head of the NLB administration. And politics solved him from his leading position in the NLB. And you brought another man to this place in the New Ljubljana Bank. In fact, remember, politics appoints a majority in the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board then appoints the Administration. So when the pressure started on the New Ljubljana Bank, if you finally finance this political project - because, forgive me, don't tell me that building the sports and business centre of the Stožica is not a political project, it is Mr Janković's political project and probably a ruling coalition - so when you saw that the financial structure stood on your feet, those who have to help were called, and this is the state bank. If the state bank were a coalition bank, you wouldn't mind - pay and bear the consequences. However, since the state bank is the bank of all citizens, of all taxpayers, and is making proposals both to Parliament and to a variety of recapitalisations - by the way, the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank said they needed 100 million or more recapitalisations. So when this bank is on the one hand dealing with risky investments that no one else wants, but at the same time asking taxpayers, give money for recapitalisation, forgive me, the honourable President of Parliament, and here comes the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. But if you don't think it's coming, then this kind of thinking, which has probably been in Europe and the world so far, has led to the collapse of the economy, the financial crisis and the Greek script. And if there's any more of those thoughts, there's going to be more of those fractures and they're going to pay -- you know who? Not here, in Parliament, we will not pay, those people who are the most vulnerable in the country will pay, these are the people with the lowest wages who are already living hard and will have to cover up these policy mistakes. They'll pay the pensioners and not least the students, not the students who threw the dice. Those 99% of the students who didn't throw the dice and didn't throw the eggs. So I want to tell you that it is still important to finally be aware that there is a concern in Parliament for public finances, for the stability of public finances. You also prevented, later, the consideration of this point by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, since the majority or half of it was a vote and no vote was taken on the agenda for this item. So I believe that you have unjustifiably rejected and thrown this debate out of this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, yes, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I am pleased that my fellow Member has mentioned that a person can answer a question. And I am pleased that we agree to support the construction of playgrounds, that we agree that sports facilities are not financially covered. In order to understand this claim from the outset, you need to look at the magnetograms of your associates, and one of them, and I don't want to name it, was vehemently defending it in one of the first introductory performances. However, I cannot agree that a project of national importance is a political project. If we have a team playing at the World Cup in South Africa and there's nowhere to play, then I think it's an All-Slovenian problem. It should also be borne in mind that the construction of the stadium began at another time, a different time, that it had broad financial support at the time, and that the construction of this facility today is so far away that it simply needs to be completed and the object handed over to the function and purpose for which it was built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna talk about where the stadium is, where the stadium is supposed to be, what's best. In Ljubljana, they have decided to do what they have decided and respect their will. In the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, I outlined the reasons why it is not possible to support the request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. In their discussions, colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group completed this introductory presentation and argued against it, while advocates of the discharge of the President of the National Assembly tried to convince us that they were right. Let me say that the resolution is, I will not say anything new, that the resolution, the President of the National Assembly, is a serious matter that would have occurred for the first time during the parliamentary democracy in Slovenia and this resolution cannot be based on arguments and would have been almost given in the indications cited by the proponents. Today, too, it was just another show on which you want to end with a round of applause. I doubt that you have been successful today, but I doubt that you will be pleased that this story will continue in the future. With regard to the content you are referring to and mentioned in the debate, the President did not want this content, which you think should be dealt with by the National Assembly, and the President notes that this does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly in order to discharge the President. However, I wanted to say that, to this end, it was the intention of the President of the National Assembly to be dismissed, but to clarify the investment issues, an investigative commission has been set up, which has every opportunity to take into account political responsibility, and I hope that you are more successful at your work than at putting forward arguments for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. So, on the basis of the debates that we have heard today and the announced requests for resolution, argued on the two sides of the letter, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that we have not changed the position that was announced in the introduction to this debate. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will unanimously reject the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. President Gantar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, at the end of the comments, let me cheer you up in advance so I don't spend the remaining 29 minutes at my disposal. However, I have some things to answer, because I am a decent man, even though I shouldn't have to. First thing that is. I was asked a question by my fellow Member and SDS leader Mr Tank, on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure I rejected eight meetings of the National Assembly. First, I'm going to answer what I can answer. Of course, I did not refuse eight meetings of the National Assembly. Practically and actually only one, and that's the one I'm being accused of. That's the first thing. The other thing is that there is no answer to this question. Why not? Because it's the wrong question. This booklet, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, governs our mutual conditions and procedures for matters under consideration in the National Assembly. If one thing is not within the competence of the National Assembly, if the National Assembly, as I mentioned, cannot discuss it, because it is simply not a matter that the National Assembly could discuss, then this Rules of Procedure does not consider it, but deals with something else. We have the Constitution, we have the legislation, we have the distinction between different forms of government and we have the difference between public and non-disclosure policies and we have the powers that are precisely defined in the areas of public policy and regulation of social and other spheres of social life. And that's a fact. He can't understand this business reading unless he understands it as an Iranian dictatorship. To explain again, let's say that some of our colleagues, let's say that this is a Member, I don't know, Jože Tanko, goes to the bank, because I would build a new house or I don't know what, and ask for credit. And because, let's say, someone finds out, they have an sworn opponent somewhere, they collect 23 signatures and they want to discuss this loan, they want to rent it, the bank is partly state-owned, because it was once, I don't know, in a government structure and there are suspicions that this loan is being granted and so on. I'd say no to a session like this. And the same goes in this case. In this case, we are not talking about the sports center, we are not talking about the stadium, we are not talking about the hall, these two are built. We are talking about a private company wishing to build a shopping centre on the rest of the land and therefore negotiate with a consortium of banks for a loan with which to build it. And if you ask me personally, I think this case is already over because of you. Because, as I said before, money is a scary bird, I refer to Mr Arhar, and he probably won't go into projects where he's going to have political problems, both of them, I think he's already done his job. Perhaps, I hope, today, you will not dismiss the President of the National Assembly, perhaps not, and I hope not, or the coalition and colleagues of the People's Party. However, you probably, I would say, have already interrupted this project in good and especially in bad. So much so that we know what it is. This is called in political sociology an illegal form of exercise of power. It's an illegal form of territory. You have violated the legitimacy of democracy and the exercise of power. This is a matter you must take on yourself. Dr Gorenak said that I had been elected by the opposition's votes, and indeed, I would have received 70 if I had not missed one of my colleagues, an envious result, which I was proud of and also pleased and in debt to me. But why did I get so many votes? The later course of events, respected colleagues from the SDS, refers only to the SDS, to no one else, but showed that perhaps there was not only some belief in my, I don't know, political character or anything, but that you believed that I was open to what I am, and a soft man. And that I am the man who is fit to functionalize this position for your needs. I've had this feeling and direct pressure all the time. There was a lot of pressure in every way. Let me only talk about procedural proposals and pressure at meetings, with initiatives and procedures that have been numbered, mainly by the leaders of the largest opposition SDS group, of which I would say I counted them once, on 10 they may have been three excuses and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have left this behind because I do not think I have the right to know in advance, except when it has been completely out of the context, I do not have the right to know in advance that this matter will be misused. If there is no explicit context with a bad purpose, I have no right to continue to know that someone will abuse their voice, their words and so on. I'm holding on to that very tightly. In a way, I've often thought, Mr. Tanko, that you're a prisoner of history, of the chair you're sitting in. Actually, there was a time in this chair, if I recall correctly, a large part of the previous term was held by Martin Milan Cwickl. And if this spirit of this chair escapes procedural questions, it may be necessary to take additional action and help to do so, and it may be possible to resolve some of my own and even some of your embarrassment, it may save a minute to some Member and Members. But if that is not the problem, we will endure and the other Members and Members of Parliament will endure. In short, if we go back to those voices that you gave me and I was grateful for them, I have to say that somehow they owed, that somehow they were indebted, they were in the conflicts that I had to have with you, because in certain things in the procedures I think otherwise, they were a certain burden, and in this way I have to say today, when I don't have those votes, that burden will fall down. I thank you for not giving me these votes. It'll be easier for me, but I'll also tell you that the relationship I have and that I hope it's correct will not change. I will always and everywhere respect your will, respect your suggestions and give the opportunity that the opposition must have, and I think that if we look at the meetings in full, we cannot say that I have neglected you and cannot say that I have not acted in a spirit of neutrality and, we could say, properly chair the meetings and enable the assembly to work. I have repeatedly mentioned that the seat of the President of the National Assembly or the leadership of the National Assembly is similar to that of a football or hockey court or I do not know which judge. Whenever you write to one side, this page complains about why we, including others, have made a mistake, and so on. This calls for learning to live and to be truly consistent and equally respectful of measures for all. And that's what I'll do if I'm chosen, if I'm confirmed, if I keep doing this. I also want to avoid the questions of the stadium and all of these matters today, but I must say that I am also disturbed, and I have noticed this several times, these anti-urbans, and above all the anti-Mullian sentiment that stems from these discussions. It is as if our cities are not worth anything, as if everything that is happening in our cities, especially the major cities, among which I also consider Maribor, is actually a burden to this nation and people should suffer more or otherwise be treated than everyone else. We can't live with this anti-urban sentiment for so long and so on. Cities are the centres of innovation, the centres of knowledge that they extend to both rural and outward areas. And if we don't have our cities and if we don't know how to take care of our cities, for example, the problem of public transport - the stadium is the least problem in Ljubljana - public transport in Ljubljana is the real thing. Public transport, within regional and interregional public transport, is a matter that should be discussed in the National Assembly. And unfortunately, we've never really discussed this before. Not about an investment that was neither an investment nor a single euro of state money went in, but went out in public, clearly. As for, of course, many other findings, I would say the following. I was very cruel because of the request that the SDS Group sent me regarding the work of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, that I did not allow for a meeting in this great Chamber. This great hall is not used for this. It shall apply to other similar events but not to meetings of working bodies. And I must tell you, fellow Jeremiah, I hope, with irony, without offense, if even a great hall would not be enough for all those who wanted to attend this meeting. And if so, why don't we refer to this meeting at the new Ljubljana Stadium at the Stožice. Perhaps we could meet all the needs there. At the same time, all the legal and all other matters that we owe to the public have, of course, also been established in the National Assembly. I would also say this when my colleague Visjak spoke about financing risky projects, that they are still under discussion in the National Assembly. Of course they are, but in the right way. Not a concrete project in which a private company rents or hires loans to build a commercial facility at a bank consortium and we don't even know whether it will get, rent, organise, etc. I told everyone that if our or any other parliamentary group were to make a request for an extraordinary meeting, in which, for example, it would define a matter on behalf of the government policy regarding the conduct of banks in predominant state ownership of risky loans, such treatment would certainly be possible. Absolutely possible. Wanted and also wanted. That's not the problem. Of course, the problem with the conclusions is that they need to be adapted if they do not meet the formal conditions. However, if the formal conditions are met, they shall be corrected in substance at the meeting of the committee itself, if that is the case. That wasn't there. This meeting, which was convened - and the problem is communication, indeed, in politics and elsewhere - this meeting, which was convened, is too obvious, too insincere, shows that there is something else behind this initiative. We sociologists are used to talking about manifesto and latent functions. Manifest functions are those that are visible at first sight, and latent ones that are covered, hidden and operating in the background. You have over-explained this latent feature of this reference by actually using this as a matter of debate on the Stožica, Jankovic, and have become involved in this matter. There is no man in Ljubljana and more wide who would not believe that this is today's debate on Jankovic and not the President of the National Assembly, and I am further offended because I cannot even have my point when I have my point. [[A laugh in the hall.]] So this case is clear. But I still think I'm ending up in a more relaxed way that we haven't been fighting too much today, but just as much as it took or a little more, I haven't been able to do that. And I'll give you 14 minutes and 28 seconds for later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gantar! We're not fighting today. Today, we are talking about whether or not a matter has been referred to in accordance with the terms by which we work. Opinions are different. But our position is that we must find that we have met all the constitutional and business conditions for such a meeting. That's what we're talking about. We're not interested in this sociological, psychological or other explanation. This is where things need to be taken very technically. It is necessary to examine the individual provisions and to determine whether the cases are completed and, if they are fulfilled, to decide. If the requirements are not met, then it shall be written accordingly and the requirement cannot be met. None of this, the honourable President of the National Assembly, except that you said you would not convene a meeting in any case, you did not. You didn't write down the terms on which you rejected the case. Nor does it hold your claim that this is the only session you have not convened. On 10 December 2008, she was the first person not to be invoked. On 4 March 2009, she was the second one you did not refer to. 26. 11. You haven't called a meeting twice. She was called in, then 21. The meeting was revised and only then convened on 6 January. That's four times. You haven't called the meeting we're talking about, either, twice. And another session that we've asked for, which concerns the alleged abuse of the police, you haven't invoked it in another attempt. So, eight times you decided that you did not refer to the cases filed by the opposition in accordance with all normal requirements, both business and constitutional. Each time it was a matter of handling matters relating to your coalition partners, one way or another, directly. In fact, if the President of the National Assembly, without arguing anything, puts his decision on anything, we cannot explain it differently than he has decided to politically protect those who should be debated by the President of the National Assembly. This debate was about Mr Golobic. I would like to remind you that there is not yet a meeting today to discuss the alleged controversial actions in the introduction of e-mailing student vouchers. The person to whom we have addressed the request for a meeting has declared himself not competent to be the President of the working body dealing with these matters in accordance with the competences. When we addressed the President of the National Assembly to appoint a competent national working body in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly did not do so. This matter is an open, respected President, since 28 October 2009, on 5 November we have addressed this request to you to assign/authorise a competent working body and have not yet been designated. It's been six months. In such cases, it is difficult to avoid interpretations, but I am explaining to this benevolent one that you have done everything in your power to deal with, to the opposition benevolent and to deal with these matters. It's not like that. I can also list a number of working bodies where there have been major reference problems, but the President of the National Assembly is in charge of ensuring the proper legality of the work of the National Assembly. And it doesn't work. He does not work for his coalition partners, does not ask his coalition presidents to do so, and he himself, directly, has decided in eight cases that he will not call for an extraordinary meeting. I have previously asked the President of the National Assembly twice or three times in the debate to tell him what provisions give him this arbitral right to decide not to call anything. Even now, in this final debate, it has not stated on the basis of which provisions of the Constitution or of the Rules of Procedure or anything else may arbitrarily decide what is jurisdiction and what is not the competence of the National Assembly to arbitrarily decide what Members may or may not speak about and what we cannot. It is not, Mr President, such provisions as would give you this right. They're gone. And the coalition can talk about this in one way or another emotionally, and it's spreading these things to other things, but we're talking about very specific things, and here the President of the National Assembly should give very concrete answers. Because we are talking about violations of specific provisions. And if the President of the National Assembly does not wish to convene a debate in any event, which is indeed the title of the Meeting's financing of the Sožica Sports Park project by banks in municipal state ownership, and then we propose that the Bank of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under constitutional and legal provisions report to the National Assembly, then we ask ourselves why the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are not allowed to do so, it shall be prevented from reporting to the National Assembly within the framework of constitutional and legal powers. With what right does the President of the National Assembly prevent the Bank of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from reporting to the National Assembly? In fact, one and the other institutions are only obliged to report to the National Assembly under the Constitution and by the laws of the field. And that's what the president of the National Assembly stopped. I think it is more than obvious from this that the State Assembly is not allowed to talk about policies, is not allowed to talk about the situation in this country and so on. As regards the project we are talking about, a project that does not have a completed financial structure. All those who are running for any public funds that you are mayors are likely to have to submit an invitation to tender, a specifically closed financial structure, to provide funding sources. This is not the case in this particular case, but it is only a media requirement that the state does not pay any attention to this project, nor does it run for funds, but does it. And that's the only object that didn't get the money and that's why we're going to have to do something about this project. Now, in accordance with the Capital Law, which allows certain things to be made clear that there will be agreements between individual ministers or even with the Prime Minister of the Government that something will be allocated to these projects. I must say that we are very careful and very concerned to monitor the situation, not only in the international financial field, but also in the domestic area. We must be concerned, Mr. President of the National Assembly, about the condition our banks are in. After all, the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has already been carried out twice in this mandate, and I think it is about EUR 400 million. And now it's time for a new recapitalisation. Recapitalisation may be due to expansion to new markets, but is more likely because the appropriateness of investments is poor. That's probably why! Because the cases that are loaded, which are borrowed, are not returned in an appropriate manner. Many of you have also been talking about excessively citing extraordinary meetings in the opposition. I would like to remind you that we have convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at least twice because, in our view, the Government has not responded adequately to these financial matters as well. We've proposed our actions, you've rejected them. After a year and a half now we are proposing, and you can also directly check that these measures are coming back. Not as we suggested, by short or regular procedure, but by emergency procedures, by intervention routes. Because you have found that they are only necessary for a way out of the crisis. However, a year and a half is a great time, and these measures are likely to be as ready as they are now to be of a more lenient thirst and will not work as they should and will not act. It is also necessary to discuss these issues in these difficult situations where our country is. And I don't think it's possible for anyone in this country to close their eyes to the situations that we've come into and that are likely to deepen. If, for the Republic of Slovenia, if, for the National Assembly, there is not a suitable discussion for the Government in the National Council of Investment, which is the largest investment in the country and currently has an estimate of the outstanding cases for around 200 million euros, then we are wondering what we can discuss in the National Assembly. Such an uncovered investment certainly has a very large impact, including on the liquidity situation in the wider environment, even in Slovenia after all. And the debate on whether or not this payment discipline will work or whether certain matters will be paid or not is certainly part of this framework. I do not understand that the President of the National Assembly so vehemently rejects any serious debate on the financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia or the coverage of individual investments. I also do not understand why there are so many of these vehement matters, if, again, we will discuss the arbitration agreement. The President of the National Assembly, you will probably recall that when there was an opportunity to discuss the arbitration agreement and when there was a desire to discuss it, this debate was prevented, once there was a closed meeting of the National Assembly, the second time there was in no way a specific minute per Member for the debate, a minute. No such rule is laid down, even for reasons of vote, the Member shall have two minutes. This was a debate not to explain the voice. And now that we have proposed a new request for a debate on this, there have also been a great deal of these comments about this, but after every public tribunal, after every round table the President of the Government has, the Hraška comes to deny that this has not been agreed upon. I wonder what, say, the Prime Minister of the Government understood when he signed this agreement, read it or didn't have it, he was there when they coordinated or he wasn't there. Every time a new demanta says something that the President of the Government is talking about, and that says it's just that and nothing else, these things are being denied. I would therefore suggest that, in order to avoid any further complications, because if the President of the National Assembly is not to be resolved at this meeting, it is more than obvious from his discussion that this practice will continue. This is probably a reflection of a new policy, a new culture that has been transferred and has come to the National Assembly. Using all the tools to ensure that the right of the opposition to have a right to debate and certain matters requires that this be prevented in some way, in a way that the President of the National Assembly cannot even explain. I think that this new policy in this National Assembly is going to cost this country a lot, it's going to cost a lot, because if we can't answer, if we can't get the answers to the questions we're asking, then there's probably going to be a lot of things left that will be closed, hidden and just happen. They'll only come as a fact. And working in such a time and situation is probably extremely difficult. Also because certain debates are being prevented because certain matters are being hampered, even because they are not being voted for in principle - this is only because they are being proposed on the wrong side, but because Slovenia is traveling on the road that we saw before the day published in one of Slovenia's professional newspapers. Perhaps there should also be a ringtone in the coalition, and the coalition should also require some discussion on the state of the matter. It is now irrelevant who is the victim of any chair in the National Assembly. Mr Andrej Vizjak used to be in this place in our Group, and I can assure you that I am not the victim of Andrej Visiak. It is also likely that this National Assembly is not the victim of Mr Andre Visiak and of the one who is now in this seat. The President of the National Assembly would also expect him to use arguments and what he was asked to answer in his reply. All the questions that we asked him to answer and why the Congregation case could not be included in the meeting of the National Assembly remained unanswered. One argument, one ground for rejecting these cases, was not stated by the President of the National Assembly. Even in all previous cases, when the case was not convened, he did not state anything. No grounds, but "I've made up my mind." And this is also a quote he said at the College of the National Assembly. "I will by no means call it in because it is contrary to my principles." It is not essential that this is in accordance with the constitutional provision that it is not essential that this is in accordance with the rules of procedure; it is essential that such a decision is taken to be contrary to its principles. However, if the National Assembly, if the National Assembly is the victim of such an autocratic decision, is such a way of leading, then there is a need to change a wide range of instruments, a number of acts, and a number of rules under which the National Assembly works. If one person in the National Assembly, where we are sitting 90, has the power to take such power, the right to decide on it and where the role of the President of the National Assembly is written, it is not mentioned anywhere, then we can talk about abuses. And the president of the National Assembly has allowed this abuse in this mandate many times, many times. There is no exclusive right or arbitrary right under which the President of the National Assembly would have the right to say, this goes to the National Assembly, this is the topic of the National Assembly, this is not the topic of the National Assembly. And if it has such arbitral power, then it is necessary to change part of the state regime. With regard to the proposal we have put forward, I propose that you support it in the National Assembly, as this bad practice, illegal work, non-business work, violation of the Constitution is likely to continue. I think that the President of the National Assembly is probably not a person who will change in a short period of time to act differently, but will probably have all these habits that he has in this mandate, which are different from the previous term, when he was only a Member, which will continue and will continue these abuses indefinitely. This may not be a good testimony from the National Assembly. This may not bring about a good determination in the National Assembly. This may in some way make it easier for the coalition to work a little bit, but in no way can this bring results to the coalition. And that the results are not actually more obvious every day. I therefore propose that you support the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly and that you propose to this place someone who will respect the Constitution, who will respect the Rules of Procedure and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Of all the applicants, one minute at a time is available. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Are you all in favour of not discussing it? [[...]] Would you please raise your hand against us not to discuss it? Okay. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the discharge of the President shall be decided by secret vote. In accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the voting committee, namely Mr Anton Kolarič, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Franci Kek and Mr Guido Kres. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone want a word on the Commission's proposal? No, no, no. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 members voted against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be dismissed if the majority of all Members vote in favour of discharge, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4.20 p.m. and will last until 16.35 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue after the final vote, as it was said, at 16. 45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u114	Dear Members and Members! I will read the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Paul Gantar. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 21 May 2010. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 votes cast, 2 votes invalid, 75 votes valid. Twenty-eight members voted against the resolution, and 47 members voted against it. [[Let's hear it.]] Since the majority of Members did not vote in favour of discharge, Dr Pavel Gantar was not dismissed from office as President of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on Privileges, Immunities and Advantages allocated to the Organisation and the amended Letters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 65 in favour against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF PROTOCOL No. 12 OF THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 65 in favour against 4. The vote was 65.) [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation between the European Community and its member states and the Kingdom of Morocco in relation to the civil global satellite navigation system. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated as the home body of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 4. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Minister of Justice for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u115	Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the state by our constitution. Under the Law on Courts, he is ruled by the President. Our Supreme Court has not had a president for a third month to be appointed under the law for a full six-year term. The President of the Court is not on account of the fact that the first tender procedure was not completed due to the withdrawal of the candidacy by the only candidate who applied at the time. This was followed by a second invitation to tender, which was opened by a new candidate and his candidacy was examined in accordance with the law of the Council of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court. Under the law, both authorities give an opinion on this application. The General Meeting of the Supreme Court did not support the candidate and the Council of Justice gave a positive opinion on this candidate. In contrast to the general meeting, the Council of Justice has also given a broad justification for its positive opinion. However, the General Meeting of the Supreme Court did not base its opinion on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of a general meeting which did not provide for such justifications. I believe that not only is such an arrangement not only happy but it is very likely that it is not in accordance with the law and that I have therefore requested a general meeting to present the reasons why the general meeting rejected the support of the candidate. However, I have received the interim President's reply that they remain bound by the provisions of their Rules of Procedure. Such a situation does not, of course, make the decision easier for the Minister of Justice as a motioner, especially since, under the Law on the Courts and also in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court which interpreted this procedure and the provisions which it regulates years ago, the Minister must assess the substantive reasons and must also be defined for them. In a situation where there are no reasons, of course, the Minister is not able to identify them, and in this regard, this procedure presents a negative opinion of the General Court's general meeting of the problem, you could even say that it is a measure of disability. As Minister, I can only rely on what comes from the candidacy, which is the candidate's resume, his programme of administration of the Supreme Court, and all that comes from the broad opinion of the Council of Justice. From all this information, as Minister of Justice, I conclude that this is a candidate who meets all the formal conditions for being appointed President of the Supreme Court. I also think he's a suitable candidate. This assessment of suitability is based in particular on the findings drawn from the interview I had with this candidate, because it is particularly important for me, as Minister, that I can cooperate properly with the President of the Supreme Court on key issues relating to the competences of the Ministry or the Minister on the one hand and the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court on the other. On this basis, I therefore assessed that I could submit this candidacy to the National Assembly by proposing that the National Assembly appoint it. It is clear to me that because it is a matter of procedure in the National Assembly and because it is inherent for the National Assembly to decide politically that political criteria will also be applied in this process, even though I would like that not to happen. However, as long as we have such a procedure and as long as the Courts Act regulates the granting of a mandate to the President of the Supreme Court in the National Assembly, until then the National Assembly will use this judgment in this context. My proposal, therefore, is for the National Assembly to carry out this assessment and to appoint a candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Mr Dusan Kumru.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-election commission is the proposal of the Minister of Justice to appoint the National Assembly as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mark Šorli, the Supreme Judge of the Council at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in preparation for the decision-making session of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Commission, Minister Aleš Zalar further explained the proposal, pointing out that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is not a constitutional category with us, so there is also no formal president of the third branch of government, but at a symbolic level it is the President with the most important position in the third branch of the government. The first call for this place was unsuccessful because the candidate withdrew his candidacy during the course of the proceedings. Only one candidate, Mr Marko Šorli, applied for the second tender. The Council of Justice adopted a positive opinion and supported the candidate and also explained its opinion. However, the General Meeting of the Supreme Court drew up a negative opinion, which was not substantiated, despite the late Minister's request. This situation has made it somewhat difficult for the Minister, who is proposing to the National Assembly. The Minister also interviewed the candidate and decided on the basis of the legal criteria and this interview that Mark Šorli would propose for the President of the Supreme Court. The debate of the members and members of the Mandate-Election Commission focused on support and non-support for the candidacy. The SDS's largest opposition party supported the candidacy because, according to her assessment, Mr Marko Šorli has been an experienced candidate, actively involved in both domestic and international developments with participation in certain international institutions such as GRECO and some others. It is also interesting that he presented his programme. The Slovenian People's Party also supported the candidate, also in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, where the Minister's proposal was supported by an argument that it was a state creative decision. On behalf of the Hungarian National Community, Dr László Göncz supported the candidate's application on the grounds that the candidate's programme and the Minister's additional explanation had convinced him of the high level of professional competence of the candidate. In the largest coalition party of the Social Democrats, the candidates argued that it was important for the competent and responsible exercise of this highest function within the third branch of the Authority to have colleagues and colleagues in the Supreme Court. Therefore, it is very important to note that Mark Šorli is not supported by his colleagues and by his colleagues and that he has been given no confidence at the meeting, even though he has so far served as Vice-President of the Supreme Court. Therefore, candidates who do not have the support of their colleagues and colleagues cannot support them. The opposition was also joined by the Zares Group, explaining that they were not led by doubts about the professional references, but by the non-support of colleagues in the Supreme Court, which will lead them in the future. A similar explanation for the candidate's non-support was also made by the SNS Group. The majority of the votes voted, 8 for and 9 against, did not support the proposal appointing Marko Šorli, High Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, as President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, for a period of six years. In view of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it decide on a proposal for a decision appointing Mark Šorli, the Chief Justice of the Council at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A respected choir! Today, before the Members and Members of Parliament, it is a very important decision to define ourselves before the proposal of the Minister for Justice, who proposes a candidate for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mark Šorli, as President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. Following the first failure of the invitation to tender, Mr Šorli applied for the President’s post in question at the renegotiated invitation to tender. The Minister of Justice has already given a more detailed explanation at the meeting of the Supreme Court of Justice, referring to the following: that the proposed candidate fulfils all the legal conditions laid down for the office of the President of the Supreme Court; that the situation, when the Supreme Court is chaired by the interim President, is not good, as the functioning and internal coordination of the judicial system could therefore not be compromised; that the Council, by its reasoned opinion, has positively defined the candidate while the negative opinion of the General Court to the proposed candidate was not justified; that is why the Minister could not be made aware of and identified by the reasons for such an opinion; and that, as Minister, he is strictly bound by objective legal criteria and is not allowed to include political considerations or considerations in the decision-making process of the Supreme Court of Justice. Members and Members of the Social Democrats respect the Minister of Justice's arguments, but we cannot fully agree with them, so we will vote against the proposed candidate. At this point, I would like to point out that we, too, have carefully considered our decision, aware in particular of the great responsibilities that the Law on Courts imposes on us in this regard. We are convinced that the election of the proposed candidate to such an important place would be a very irresponsible decision if we know that the candidate does not enjoy the proper trust of his fellow judges and colleagues. The fact is that the candidates have been rejected by judges and judges who, in the Supreme Court of Justice, hold very important judicial posts and perform the most responsible tasks. In this light, we have a number of concerns about how the candidate, as the future President of the Supreme Court, would be able to carry out his programme or objectives that he has set in it. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the Minister's concerns, which reminds us that the situation when the Supreme Court is headed by a temporary President is not good, but it should also be added that in this light it would be even worse if someone who does not enjoy any confidence and not adequate authority between their colleagues and colleagues of the Supreme Judges and Supreme Judges presided over the Supreme Court. Even fewer of us are convinced by the strong concern about the constitution and smooth functioning of the Supreme Court of those who, on the other hand, would do everything themselves to bring down the highest state institutions such as the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore do not want to take responsibility in the Group of Social Democrats for the appointment of a candidate as President of the Supreme Court, who does not enjoy the confidence of his colleagues and colleagues. But trust in our beliefs is the basis or prerequisite for any successful cooperation. Since there is no confidence in this, there can be no support for us either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group, we will support the Minister's proposal that Marko Šorli be appointed President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The candidate convinced our Members with his experience, as the Minister stated in his explanation that his candidate had been a judge of the Supreme Court for fourteen years, that he was a member of the State Legal Examination Board, that he was a member of several working groups preparing judicial solutions, and that he was a member of several international projects. Among other things, a member of the European Commission for Effective Courts at European and regional level, as well as a member of the GRECO evaluation group, is an institution dealing with corruption. The candidate also prepared an interesting programme to improve the work of the Supreme Court, setting out objectives and priorities. The candidate obtained the reasoned support of the Council of Justice, which states that the candidate is a top criminal law expert and that he has rich teaching experience and a rich publicist activity. However, the General Meeting of the Supreme Court did not support the application, but there was no explanation or argument for such a decision. Of course, we do not mind that the candidate participated in the seven-member Senate, which in 2004 dismissed Member Rupar. Regrettably, this has disturbed some of the parliamentary groups so much that they have also publicly denied their support, as it is unacceptable for them, if, by chance, someone from the opposite political field in which the proceedings are dismissed. Such an attitude can also be understood as revenge. However, it is probably the right reason to under-support the 2002 Supreme Court ruling, which states: "The said internal report is a historical document produced by the former Yugoslav secret police known as Ubba." Today, it is known that this service has dealt not only with intelligence tasks but also organised various criminal activities itself, deliberately challenged them, and constructed the existence and responsibility of crimes. To this end, she also falsified, fabricated, and planted burdensome evidence. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents, or otherwise thinkers, did not have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime. The publication of the document of the Secret Service of the Udba was therefore in the public interest in a given case, as it represents the disclosure of the work of the historical event, which is still going on today, and has not yet been fully and impartially explored and evaluated, irrespective of the ruling ideology of the previous regime. This judgment, this part of the judgment, is probably the chief sin of candidate Shorley. Although the Supreme Court has been without competent leadership for several months now to run it, it is likely that the situation will continue for several months, but I think the coalition should already see to it that the candidate ministers, informally this is a government candidate, receive support in the vote. We'll support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mark Šorli, Supreme Judge of the Council. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, the Supreme Court has long been without a President with a full mandate, which is not good for the functioning of the judiciary. Secondly, Mr Mark Šorli's references are guarantees that he will perform his function professionally correctly and with a development vision in favour of the development of the judiciary. Thirdly, the general meeting of the Supreme Court did not support Mr Šorli's candidacy. While there are no known reasons for such a decision under the general rules of procedure, these reasons were certainly not so strong that, for the fourth time, the Council of Justice would not have given a very positive opinion on the grounds that Mr Marko Šorli is the top expert in criminal law, with extensive teaching experience and extensive publicity, and with highlighted working skills, which gave the Minister of Justice a clear signal for a decision on the proposal submitted to the National Assembly. All these are the reasons why Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliament will support Mr Mark Šorli's candidacy as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, Mr. Secretary! The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy is as follows. The Minister of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. At the public invitation of the judges to apply for the seat of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, only one candidate has applied, and this is the Chief Justice of the Council, Mr Marko Šorli, whom we are deciding today. At the LDS, we have decided to give our support to the proposed candidate. We estimate that the current situation, when the Supreme Court has been without the President for months now, is not good. In doing so, we do not renounce the good and exemplary work of the current interim president of the Supreme Court. It should also be noted that the Supreme Court is the highest institution of the judiciary, which creates judicial practice, even more important for the fulfilment of the constitutional principle of equality of all before the law. Today it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to give the highest institution of the third branch of power to its president, that is to say, to support the candidate. Despite the fact that the Supreme Judges at the general meeting did not confirm Mark Šorli's candidacy, because the content of their negative opinion is not known to us, unfortunately, it is a candidate who is willing to face the challenges posed by the administration of the highest court in the country. In the House of Members, we feel that it is difficult to afford that the highest court in the state is without a boss, so I repeat that we will support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u127	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of what we have heard, there is no reason to oppose the support of the candidate for President of the Supreme Court. The candidate shall meet all legal requirements. He received a positive opinion from the Council of Justice, which is also reasoned, and a negative opinion from the general meeting, which is not reasoned, which is in some ways also worrying, as it raises doubts as to whether it is an opinion of a professional nature or whether it is possible to have a political opinion. The Council of Justice shall be the body provided for in Article 131 of the Constitution and shall consist of six judges of 11 members. So it is not possible to talk about the fact that the candidate does not have the support of judicial colleagues. The Supreme Court has been without the President for some time. The candidate who applied has withdrawn his candidacy. The only candidate left to fill this gap after a few months, apparently, is not politically fit. We are in 2010, not in 1985 or 1958 and today those who will vote against this candidacy will politically lustrate the candidate for President of the Supreme Court because in some specific case he judged differently than you think it would be right to judge. This is a typical example of political lustration, which does not belong to this Parliament in 2010, and is very far from normal democratic parliaments in other countries. Opinion, thinking that is not compatible with the opinions of some others, while the candidate fulfils the professional conditions, cannot be the basis for opposition to the candidate. Obviously, we are moving into a state of affairs in this country, according to everything else that is going on, when it is necessary not only to be politically compatible with those who think that power is part of the electoral boot, but in the light of recent events, we are in a state where the highest cities in this country will have to have a victory card in their pocket. We're so far away, ladies and gentlemen. And by doing so, you show disrespect for this country, for this young democracy, including some of the other actions that are taking place in the National Assembly, even when the President of the National Assembly, who is the first of the same, allows you to disregard the explicit provisions of the Constitution, which is unequivocal and clear. I think you'll find it very difficult to find any other reason than the one who talks about the fact that those who think with their own head, if they're not compatible with you, should be mirrored. And if you vote against what you predicted you would do, you will clearly confirm that in Parliament, in the Slovenian Parliament in 2009, there was a political lustration of someone because of his opinion in the particular case in which he was referring, and thus you will add another stain to the more young Slovenian parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u128	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that I am not exactly in the right place, given that I intend to vote, as the LDS will vote, which rarely happens and as the Minister proposes, but let me say something. See, in our opinion, the judicial branch of power has long, long, or does not function as well as it should. I am with Mr. Schorley, who, as is known from the public, is 64 years old, in fact, I do not promise to pull the judicial branch of power out of the abyss where it is during the coming period. But it's not his fault, I see two objective reasons. In the judicial branch of power, it is necessary to say in saying that I will not be misunderstood, "revolutionary change". Such changes are made by people there about 30 years old, as they lived in 1991, when Slovenia gained independence. I don't see any good promises here, but that's not the main reason. The main reason is that the judiciary needs thorough constitutional changes and only then can we talk about the functioning of this branch of power. However, I collected the data and tried to get the data, what is actually going on and how this is now possible, that the largest coalition party and the second largest one cancels and opposes the minister. There were a few hints that this was meant to be so proposed, but additional verifications have convinced me that you have a corrective purpose, Mr Minister, I don't know everything - you know what was going on. You yourself have said that the Council of Justice has supported this or that the general meeting of the Supreme Court has not supported it. I can't talk publicly about everything I've been able to check and read at this time, so I'm just going to tell you in a parable and you'll understand what I've told you in the parable. The general meeting said: no, that's not a suitable candidate and she didn't explain it. If we put this a little bit somewhere else, in what judgment, we could say: 20 years in prison, but we won't tell why. The strange behavior of the people who participated in the general session, but in fact without your knowledge, this is part of the parable, and past you, has infiltrated this room by spirit. This spirit was such a fog, a red color - you know, Mr Minister - and these people have actually made some decision that does not have the right basis in real facts, which does not have a proper basis for Mr Šorley. They said no, but they didn't tell you why. That's incorrect of them, extremely incorrect. Change your marriage or what needs to be changed so that such a thing does not happen again. This is unfair to you and to everyone else. But these people were, sometimes they said indoctrinated, with this fog. This case is reflected here, too. Today we listened to Mrs Beblerova and explained how they could not support this and that because she did not have the support of a general meeting of the Supreme Court. It's called a diversion, Mr. Secretary. You've been diversified. On the Commission's mandate, I move on to the most important part of my contribution, and it was said, "No, this Mr. Schorley has forgiven Mr. Rupar in the year X." Ladies and gentlemen, under this criterion, the President of the Supreme Court may never be elected in this Chamber. Never! If Mr Šorli did anything in his life, and I believe that he was working, and if he accepted one judgment every three days, he condemned 2,400 people, that is, he was a criminal judge. And if he convicted 1,200 lions and 1,200 rights, then we will never reach the President of the Supreme Court under this criterion. Come on, for God's sake, imagine! So, by deciding that he will not be supported, we send a very clear message: ours can be supported and no one else can. So the one who was only on the right in life. But the one who convicted one left can't be supported. This is your message! Imagine such conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u130	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. So we had cases when an invitation to tender was issued when someone applied. People tend to think carefully about such decisions, assess whether they are capable of the place to which they appear, or have sufficient expertise in the past, and end up cancelling such a call. Let us recall the invitation of Minister Kresalova, when we appointed the first officer in the country, first cancelled the call of her predecessor, then cancelled her call, and we had similar cases with ambassadors. People signed up, decided on some very life-altering decision, and then someone didn't confirm this decision for, usually, political reasons. We usually talk about people who have experience who have already done something in their lives, we usually have nothing to read about them, have a flawless career, we could say, and then do not get a vote either here or by, say, the President of the Republic for some political reasons. This is very unfair, this is very unfair to these people, whom we like to call professional when it suits us, who we like to set an example or to quote when we talk about things. But when we should vote for them, we have or have some problems. Mr Šorli applied for the invitation or did not receive the support of his fellow Supreme Judges as a candidate. Apparently, he has a vision, and he knows how the Supreme Court should work. He has a vision, he has suggestions, he has ideas, and he usually decides to run for office who has it. So, who knows a system that knows what doesn't work in the system, and has an idea of what should be done to make things work better. And that support from the Supreme Judges tells me something else. If someone had a better proposal, they would probably sign up for themselves - if they had a better program - and they would run for office and maybe be chosen for that function. For me, it is a big deal that he received the support of the Council of Justice, and it is probably not a coincidence that the debate opens that he was once in a Chamber that had forgiven a Member and so on. Obviously, some of them have a problem, even bigger, obviously, including that Mr Šorli was the one who marked or said something about the Udba, about the criminal organisation, about the secret service, and probably those who live in this country or are in this Parliament should have a clear idea whether it was a democratic association or not, but obviously we do not have a unified opinion on this. Therefore, for one problem, some we understand, while others support decisions and decorations for the people who conducted these services. I will, of course, support the candidacy and I think it would be right for Mr Šorli to receive support in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u132	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to the Minister. In this debate today, we have heard that the justice system does not work as we would like the Minister, who is now in office, to inherit an obviously bad legacy, but to acknowledge and appreciate his efforts to improve the situation in the courts. And that's why my voice of support will go with just one message that it's bad if the independent branch of power is headless. And that's why I support this move, because I'm sure the court will work better and more uniformly. We also demonstrate in the LDS that we do not comment on the court's decisions, but we simply respect them. And even in this case, we will prove that we have no problems with individual decisions, no offenses, but of course the essence of any punishment and judgment as to whether it has achieved its purpose. If, for example, someone who has been forgiven has been convicted of a total of 43 crimes, bribery, embezzlement of documents, threats, and then there may be a problem in the individual's head, if, for example, someone who has a certificate of legal error, at the time of the arbitration agreement, which is a legal act, a lecturer to the party's public, what is right and what is wrong, then I also have a problem. However, if we are also concerned in the courts that the prosecution's complaints, including the parties to the proceedings, disappear from the first to the second stages, then it is only right that the Supreme Court is occupied and that the Minister and that State are making an order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u134	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that, after the current discussions, there is some kind of discomfort in the National Assembly, at least in part of the political space. Given that the programme, which is in fact a key issue for each candidate, had no comments in the debate, one would expect that candidate to be elected quickly, easily, without difficulty, without doubt. However, obviously the programme is not enough to run the Supreme Court. References, domestic and international, are not enough, but some other reasons are needed. I must say that I was very surprised on the Mandate-Election Commission when one of the main arguments of my colleague Darja Lavtijar Bebler, when she spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, and she said, "We will not support this," was that Mr Šorli was a member of the great Senate, who had acquitted Member Rupar. I also understand the reaction of the judges, which was triggered two days ago or a day ago after this case came to the public. And today, in the position of the Group of Members, we have no longer heard the argument "Rupar" that it is Rupar who makes this judge inappropriate. However, it was obvious that this problem of arguing against the candidate was so great that the experienced Member, the lawyer, as she likes to commend herself on many occasions, referred to such interesting arguments as the judgement of the Grand Chamber. Interesting. We do not actually experience such arguments in the National Assembly many times. However, I am sure that this argument was an emergency, because the one saying the argument that the candidate is not suitable for a part of the political space is somewhere else. In the 2002 judgment, when an argument was reached and defined in one of the decisions, it stood by the judgment of the Court of Justice as to what the Court was. Personally, I think this is a key argument why an important political group, the largest political group in the National Assembly, will not give support to the candidate. I believe that if we are talking about the independence of the judiciary, that the judiciary should not be political - as Mr Saiovic says, we are not commenting, and then it makes all the argument right in commenting on the judgments of the courts - that we should be a little more careful in these matters. It is clear that it does not matter whether there are independent candidates at the head of the court, those who decide also on the basis of arguments and otherwise such as political expectations. It is clear in this process that the candidate will not receive sufficient support and that the largest political party will consciously decide that this agony of the Supreme Court will continue. The Minister is on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and also today has said that the Supreme Court has been without responsible leadership for three months without competent leadership to run it. And this procedure, in the event that the candidate is not elected, can be delayed for a few months, from three to five months. In fact, no one, but at least no one in the coalition, but at least the largest coalition party, is concerned that this situation in the Supreme Court will continue. I think we should be very concerned and sometimes we should decide differently than just by the criteria: ours or yours. This is just what this reasoning on the Mandate-Electorial Commission has given us some very explicit argument. That's not a good argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u136	I conclude the debate and move to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Marko Šorli, High Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, as President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item, which concludes the 17th meeting of the National Assembly.
