ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Minister with co-workers! We begin our follow-up in December of the 12th Assembly of the State. Since this is the first meeting this year, allow me to wish you a happy, successful, healthy year of 2010. The same is true of our colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the press and also those who accompany our work. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Andrea Richter, Ivan Grill, Roberto Battelli, Dejan Kovac and Janez Janša. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of Public Interest in Culture, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Majdi Shirca's Minister of Culture for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Good morning or good morning! Let's get to work. This year, in the field of culture, we have quite a few changes to laws, to start ZUJIK, which is a fundamental law in the field of culture, we can say a small Bible that changes more or less periodically in certain components. This time, it was one of the more important reasons why we are amending and supplementing the umbrella law in the field of culture, a reminder from the European Union or the Commission, which warned us last March that ZUJIK should be aligned with the Annex to the Directive and that the possibility of abuses arising from the chaining of fixed-term contracts should be avoided. For the Directive states that it is necessary to specify how long such work can take, how many times a contract can be renewed or justified for objective reasons justifying the renewal of a fixed-term employment contract. The current law, which was adopted in 2002, allows for an unlimited repetition of fixed-term employment for the duration of the term of office of the Director or for a period of up to five years. Of course, we are talking about jobs that are of a special nature, these are artistic professions that are not many. Nevertheless, some 350 individuals are expected to be employed in the public sector for a certain period of time, but the majority, on the basis of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and about 40 of them under this Act, according to ZUJIK and a maximum of 6 are potential cases which constitute a potential breach of this Act. In short, the amendment of the ZUJIK entails a commitment that a fixed-term working relationship for the same person should not be concluded for the same work no more than three consecutive times, but not more than 10 years. This has been aligned with both the social partners and everyone else. Other changes, which are not so insignificant, appear small, but for the lives of both officials and culturers are very important. First time. When local public cultural infrastructure is transferred to the state level, and vice versa, we commit to the one who becomes the new owner that for a period of 30 years he must not alienate or sell this infrastructure. This prevents any speculation and protects public interest. Another time. Culture societies are now rarely able to gain the status of societies in the public interest; in the future, they will be easier in the way they are regulated in other societies. I now have very few societies, which is why they are deprived of access to space, access to income - the 0.5%, VAT exemptions and so on. Third time. Older self-employed persons will be able to obtain the right to pay contributions for health, disability and social insurance, pension insurance in a simpler and fairer way. Fourth time. We will also simplify the process for self-employed people. In fact, at the same time they will be able to enter the list of those who have the right to recognise the payment of social security contributions, if they so require. Fifth. In the invitation to tender we introduce individual decisions, that is to say, we introduce the possibility of not being blocked when it comes to a single decision and if there are complaints, there may also be a handicap at the time of further consideration. And six times. If I only make the most important changes. At the invitation of some municipalities, as well as you, Members and Members, if this amendment is adopted and with the support of the Government, the article to which the amendment has been tabled, after the current ZUJIK, cannot be amended if this application is incomplete. We complement in this way, at least this is how the Government supports when formal incomplete roles can be complemented. With this, we know that the invitation to tender will be extended for about a month, not because officials at the Ministry of Culture and all others involved in this process would not work quickly, but because there are certain legalities and are tied to the deadline or to the delivery of mail and so on. I assume that you will follow the current dialogue and that we will bring these amended amendments to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Before continuing to address this point, allow me to correct it. When I read the absent Members and read the Members wrongly, I said that Dejan Kovac was absent. We don't have a messenger with that last name. So I apologize to Dejan Levanič and apologize for his mistake. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Travel to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister and co-workers. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture at its 12th session, on 2 December 2009. This law was proposed after a reduced procedure. And since the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 43rd meeting on 9 November to deal with it on a reduced basis, the Committee considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. It also supported the legislative and legal service's comment on Article 7, paragraph 2, which clarified the right of older self-employed persons to obtain social security contributions on a permanent basis, i.e. without the obligation to extend their status for three years, and that this right could be invoked for effective retirement and not only to meet the minimum conditions for retirement. Mr Anton Peršak presented the oral opinion at the Committee meeting. The amendments were tabled by four coalition groups at 2, 7. Articles 9 and 15 and Articles 2, 4 and 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Emissary Group. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Minister of Culture Majda Širca Ravnikar, v.d. Director of the Directorate for Cultural Development and International Affairs, Mag. Sonja King Brvar, representative of Andrej Kurent's Legal Office and representative of the State Council Anton Peršak. Ms Rawnikar, representative of the proposal's representative, presented the proposal in the introduction. Since you've just listened to her, I'm not going to sum up her complementary explanation. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative presented their opinion and said that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition. It only pointed out that there could be a lack of clarity due to the undefined use of the concept of contributions in Article 7, paragraph 2. In the context of the debate on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 4 and 12 of the novel and to the amendments tabled thereto. The debate focused on the issue of the free transfer of public cultural infrastructure to another legal person of public law and on the right to amend applications for cultural tender after the expiry of the tender period. With regard to the eligibility to correct an application by investors in public tendering, some members considered that investors are often companies that operate unprofessionally in the field of culture and do not meet the difficult conditions of public tendering, which is why they often have unloved errors and incomplete applications. Since the completeness of the application is supposed to be the basic criterion for the selection of the tender, it should be possible for investors to complete the incomplete applications within a certain period of time. However, the representative of the Government explained that, following the current regulation of the law, there is no possibility of revisions to the tenders and that all applicants must take the invitation to tender seriously. If corrective measures could be allowed, the procedure initiated could be delayed. Finally, the amendment of the Committee was adopted by Article 12 and is now proposed for a meeting of the National Assembly of the Amendment. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 7, 9 and 15. The amendments to Articles 4 and 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group have not been accepted, and the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 2 has become irrelevant. The Committee therefore proposes to support the State Assembly with a complementary proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	All respectable ministers, respectable, presidents, colleagues. We have before us a debate and decision on the proposal for a new law in pursuit of the public interest in culture, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes, inter alia, a solution to harmonise the legal solutions to employment, then proposes solutions in relation to public cultural infrastructures, then proposes solutions and innovations in the area of social status and in the field of public calls and co-financing of cultural programmes. These changes are necessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that we are mostly in agreement with the amendments to the law. Of course, amendments are also needed, and we will be able to speak about this law with regard to the amendments when they are discussed. I am pleased, however, that we have proposed on the Committee on Culture a number of changes, which are now also adopted by the amendments of the coalition, that the debate will be fruitful and that the final law will be adopted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable colleague and colleague! The Zares Group will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, as the amendments are necessary due to the shortcomings of the law in force, and in particular the procedures will be shorter and simpler. Essential changes are mainly the result of the harmonisation of the law in work governing employment in the field of artistic and cultural activities for a certain period of time. The unlimited chain of employment contracts is inconsistent with Decision 5 of the ETUC Framework Agreement, UNESCO and CEPE on work for a certain period, annexed to the EU Council Directive. According to data, 350 public servants are employed for a certain period of time in the public sector. At least 6 cases have been identified, which have already been repeated under Article 66 ZUJIK. This is considered a chain in accordance with the Directive and therefore an amendment is necessary at this point. Secondly, the prohibition of the removal of public infrastructure for a period of 30 years. The principle of maintaining public cultural infrastructure is therefore maintained and the poverty of spatial conditions is prevented. Thirdly, changes are also about gaining the status of the functioning of societies in the public interest; the system is finally being simplified and reduced. The procedures for the registration of self-employed persons and the right to payment of social security contributions, the application for entry and registration of self-employed persons and the allocation of payment entitlements shall also be reduced at the same time. This brings us into the hands of many self-employed people in the field of culture and the wider framework of culture. I know what this double procedure meant when I registered my activity, and how much easier it will be for all these cultural workers, independent journalists and so on. Fifth. The principle of administrative procedures shall be ensured by issuing individual decisions and not more joint decisions, in the event of rejection of tenders. For all of this, the parliamentary group will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, distinguished present, well-known. Again, we have before us a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law, which is adopted after a reduced procedure. According to the applicant, it is less difficult to bring the law into line with the legal order of the European Union, in line with the European Commission's official reminder regarding Article 46 of the Act. This Article speaks of job systemisation. Workers in culture who work for a certain period of time are inequitable with other workers in the country. Thus, cultural workers are suppressed into a worse situation, they do not have social security in the event of illness, accidents, age and the like, and are also deprived of financial strength. We also see no reason in the Slovenian People's Party that the conclusion of a working relationship for a certain period of time in culture with the same person is limited to the threefold conclusion of the contract. We'll discuss this with the amendments. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law, of course, provided that the proposed unreasonable amendments are not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The views of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Mag. Your Clavor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! These few articles, with which the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, is estimated to improve the basic law in both its substantive, editorial and harmonisation terms, we intend to support our parliamentary group. We have assessed that the applicant has appropriately prepared all the solutions which he has had to draw up in compliance with the European Union's legal order, and also all those which, through implementation in practice, have proved problematic and inconsistent, or have taken due account of the conclusions of certain bodies which have, within their competences, pointed out the inappropriate content of the individual provisions. We must also not forget proposals that will be very welcome for cultural users. In particular, we welcome the change that will prevent the possible manipulation of the use and transfer of public cultural infrastructure so far. According to our assessment, the definition of public interest and the prohibition of estrangement and burden for a period of at least 30 years as one of the essential components of the free transfer contract and the entry into the land book of a sufficiently strict protector is an absolute protection of the public interest of culture. Next, according to our assessment, an extremely important change concerns cultural societies. They co-create the mission of culture through their activities in addition to professional cultural institutions. Since they are an important factor in the implementation of Article 59 of the Constitution, which speaks of culture as an inseparable right of every human being, it is not right that they, as such, are in an unequal position to gain the status of action in the public interest compared to societies in other areas. We therefore express our satisfaction in our Group that their operation will be facilitated from now on, so that they have more open opportunities for obtaining rights and ratings from societies in the public interest provided by specific laws. We are also pleased that the status of certain categories of workers is being improved from a labour and social perspective. However, as regards the changes in the tendering procedures for co-financing cultural programmes, we also agree with them. With regard to the question of the deferred deadline for the completion of the application, however, we believe that it is necessary and possible to address the minor shortcomings within a relatively short period of time, even within five days, since it is expected that serious candidates should take a responsible approach to the tender application at the time of its publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Good day to you all! We will not support this law for one simple reason in the Slovenian National Party Group because we believe that, despite the Council of Europe's Directive, that something needs to be changed and regulated, it is essentially regulated in such a way as to legitimize what should be prevented. The verification of employment contracts, which have now had to be renewed every so long, will now be well legalised by ensuring that a person can "higher" on the state budget for ten years, pay nothing and then go well to retirement. In fact, everyone asks what's going on in this marriage. In our view, it is a matter of saving friends of certain people from the Ministry or a minister in order to ensure that they will be able to receive a pension in peace so that they will not have to do anything. The fact is that we now have 2,477 people enrolled at these levels of self-employment, of which 1,413 people are paid by the state for everything. And now she's gonna pay them all the way to retirement, 10 years. One wonders whether Slovenians really have so many good artists that they deserve something like this, or whether it's friendly services to some people, while the minister refuses to pay the debt of the Ministry of Culture to certain people and tries to avoid it in one way or another, even through her friends who have been involved in various museum councils despite not having legal conditions to sit there. But it doesn't matter! The important thing is that he saves his friends, gives them the chance to get fat on the state account, on our account. One also wonders where the definitions are. I would expect that once we've corrected this law, at least the definitions will be introduced. Where is the definition of a deficient profession in culture? What's that? Whether it's a restorer or it's someone who writes three lines and then is a great poet and, of course, because he's a friend of the minister, he gets a state grant for the next 10 years. But since it's this generation, it's retired in 10 years, with a great salary, nothing works, and so on. In short, very strange. If we have already corrected this law, why do we not take into account that Article 6 of the existing law, which says that films are broadcast in Slovenian or with Slovenian subtitles, does not take place in bilingual territory. Why are all the movies on TV Koper in Italian and we don't see any Slovenian subtitles? It doesn't matter! Slovenia is not important; true culture is not important; friends are important; connections are important; those who work and repair various institutions are important. And if he doesn't get it, I'd say he's a real architectural bureau, he's working there, he's gone, or he's gone, even though it's already been prepared. That's the law. Slovenia already has too many such laws. The point is that this coalition does not do anything other than regulate its own positions so that everything will be legal. Europe wants to prevent the chain of employment contracts. We have enacted this in Article 2. It says: "A fixed-term working relationship may be concluded with the same person for the same work no more than three consecutive times, whose continuous duration shall not exceed 10 years." Which could mean that if he's 12 years away from retirement, he could be once 10 years, and then a slight break for about a month, and then two more years. That's great! That's great! Some in Slovenia, however, are dying because they do not have the money to buy bread. It's a complete mess!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Since it is a law that speaks about culture, it is certainly not too much to say that we cannot work culture with politics, but perhaps with culture we can work politics, including cultural politics. The state of culture in the country or in Slovenia is not and cannot only be in decoration, but it is an important indicator of its creativity and ability to exist or survive, and, finally, it is an important indicator of the quality of life of citizens and citizens. Culture is a living, fast-changing and complex matter which, as a rule, rigid policy is difficult to follow, both its needs and its changes. It usually starts and ends in finance. However, cultural policy should be better adapted to creators, and it would be bad for creators to adapt to cultural policy. It is not possible to plan creation while the conditions for creation can be planned. In other words, this proposal mainly seeks to comply with European legislation, in the part which regulates employment in the field of artistic or cultural activities for a certain period of time resulting from the chaining of employment contracts. Clause 5 sets out measures to prevent abuses arising from the chaining of fixed-term contracts and obliges Member States to introduce one or more of those measures into domestic law. The draft law, in agreement with the position of the social partners, introduces as many as two of those measures. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we particularly welcome as an important change in the novel also the regulation of the issue or procedures for granting the status of societies acting in the public interest. The current regulation of cultural societies whose purpose is basically to act in the public interest either at local or national level makes it difficult to obtain the status of action in the public interest. The Company Act lays down the basic conditions to be met by society in order to obtain a status in the public interest and the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture oversteps these conditions. Cultural societies are in an unequal position compared to companies operating in other fields and are thus largely excluded from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the state of operation in the public interest. The current status process is very slow and complicated, as one role of the applicant, which operates in different fields of culture, can also be addressed by six expert committees, for example. The Ministry of Culture and, above all, the applicants, due to their over-selectivity, in many cases do not gain status in the public interest and, of course, do not obtain any relief. In summary, the proposed amendments will allow cultural societies to gain equal rights in the name of societies in the public interest, which, according to the nature of their work, also belong to them. In this way it will be possible to achieve one of the most important objectives of the current national programme for culture, which is to promote the appropriate distribution of cultural focal points throughout Slovenian space. Thus, cultural creativity, regardless of the density of Slovenian cultural institutions and developments in the central part of Slovenia, can be more carefully developed throughout the Slovenian space. Cultural societies will, under facilitated conditions for gaining the status of action in the public interest, as well as the rights afforded by this status, promote creativity to a greater extent, while at the same time making it easier for the population to access cultural goods and thus contribute to the balanced development of Slovenia. In addition to this urgent amendment, the law adds further changes to the situation of cultural creators, contractors. Let me mention some: removing administrative barriers and increasing the legal certainty of parties in the process, thus facilitating the exercise of the rights of applicants in the tendering and public calls for co-financing of cultural projects and cultural programmes. An important improvement in the law also applies to self-employed people in culture. It introduces a reduction in the registration procedures for self-employed persons in culture and the acquisition of rights under this Title, and facilitates the acquisition of rights from the payment of social security contributions to older self-employed persons in the field of culture. Since the law adequately solves this problem, we will also support it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. One more nice hello to everyone. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture, because we believe that the amendments and additions relating to four fundamental and substantive points are adequately presented and complemented by amendments, which appear in the amended bill. Of course, we will also support the coalition proposal of the amendment. Many words have already been said about the restrictions on fixed-term employment in culture, including in the provisions of the legal basis for the registration of the ban on removal into the land book. The third thing regulated by the law is the facilitation of the status of cultural society in the public interest and the law also removes administrative obstacles to the registration of self-employed persons and the registration of individual decisions. I am not going to stop at the first substantive emphasis that speaks of limiting chain employment for a certain period of time. We understand this limitation as explained in the supplementary explanation given by the Minister and the members of the coalition parliamentary groups, but not as mentioned earlier in the opinion of one parliamentary group. With regard to the removal ban, the proposer shall create a legal basis which binds not only the acquirer but also its legal successors who, at least 30 years after the conclusion of the contract, will not be able to alter the purpose of the transferred public infrastructure. The proposal also makes it easier for the government to gain the status of cultural society in the public interest, as cultural societies will be treated equally, on an equal footing with all other societies. It is now in accordance with Article 30 of the Social Act that six basic conditions are defined which society must fulfil in order to exercise the status of society in the public interest. However, in the last paragraph, Article 30 also states that a law, a special law, may also prescribe specific requirements that society must meet if it is to acquire the status of society in the public interest. And among these additional conditions, as set out in Article 80 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, a number of such things have been written down, which have unduly exacerbated this status for cultural societies. If society is to be in the public interest, it must either be central to whether it must carry out cultural activities which are, by quality or meaning, comparable to the cultural activities of official institutions, or carry out cultural activities which constitute a complement to the network of public institutions. For no other society, the criteria for acquiring the status of society in the public interest are so acute. It is therefore welcome that the Ministry will now have to obtain a copy of the applicable basic act of society and an annual report for the last two years from the official records and that cultural societies will no longer have to adapt the guidelines adopted for a three-year period as requested by the lawyer. The proposed amendments also follow the memorandum of the Association of Cultural Associations, in which the Association of Cultural Associations, as a messenger of the vast majority of all cultural societies in Slovenia, advocates that societies be better placed in the public interest, thus, of course, making it easier to run for financial resources and also run for 0.5% of what individuals and individuals make of their income. We therefore believe that the proposed amendments offer sufficient opportunities to implement the national programme for culture, which also aims to spread cultural activities across the country, and thus facilitate the realization of the human right to culture. Cultural societies are the oldest civil associations, have a rich tradition and a rich quality, have a rich history. We believe that they should be provided with all this in the future. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As amendments to the law are tabled, we are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments tabled, as tabled by the parliamentary groups. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Alexander Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to allow the same person for the same work to enter into a fixed-term working relationship more than three times in a row, at least five times. Unlike some opinions, it may be very difficult to be self-employed in culture, to allow unemployment in the country to be reduced by self-employment, and to make money extremely difficult, while also subject to a number of restrictions. This is why it is closely linked, self-employment and, at the same time, employment for a certain period of time. We believe that it should be decided that self-employment should be extended for a certain period of time. That is why we have also tabled an amendment. If the conclusion of contracts is limited in order, this means that cultural workers employed for a certain period of time are unequal with other workers in the country, since the Constitution should normally provide workers with work for a certain period of time, and this should not apply to work at the place of cultural worker. This puts cultural workers in a worse position than other workers, while not providing them with social security in the event of illness, accidents, age and the like. They should also be deprived of financial strength if, after three jobs, they are interrupted for a certain period of time, for example, they are sick and so on. A fixed-term job may expire shortly before retirement and will not be given employment opportunities. In so doing, we point out that the Constitutional Court has already ruled that "the second paragraph of Article 46 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is not inconsistent with the Constitution, which provides that there is no restriction on the re-establishment of a working relationship for a certain period of time." That was a quote. We believe that, therefore, there is no reason to limit the successive conclusion of the contract to a maximum of three times. In addition, for reasons of greater security, we add that a six-month interruption or a shorter interruption should not constitute a interruption between the termination of one job and another for a certain period of time, as this is based on practical reasons, since a period of time is set in the year when the interruption occurs, such as a performance or something like that, and it could easily have occurred that it would have been impossible at that time to prevent employees from hiring again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss it with Article 2? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party seems to me to be blurring some of the solutions that are now agreed and included in the amended bill, as it is precisely the case that the same person may be contracted no more than three times. The extension is not acceptable five times or I advocate a solution such as that in law, since this is not the least agreed with representatives of the cultural workers' union, with representatives of the Gloss syndicate. However, as regards the interruption of three or six months, it is already stated in the law that continuity is not to be considered if the interruption time is up to six months. Here we follow exactly what practice dictates and what, depending on the nature of the work, the duration of the season, the planning of the work, might become a problem if we watched during the spring and autumn season and some person would not be employed, this is already the time of the rest of the theatre season if we leave annual festivals and similar things behind, but these are already things from the past. It is, therefore, that the applicant, in this case, the Government and the Coalition's parliamentary groups, has taken this comment into account and is now taking into account the 6-month deadline. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, however, there is a threefold repetition of that solution, which, as it is said, is also consistent with the social partners, so we do not intend to support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Allow me to begin by expressing my great dissatisfaction at first, to speak disrespectfully to the cultural workers in this room, which happened in the presentation of one of the Members' groups, to the cultural culture that the cultures are lazy and that they are doing so with the thought of just going to a work room in a way that they do not deserve it. In the Slovenian space, there are about 4 thousand artists, cultural artists and artists in the area of culture, except for the area of RTV, where there are just under 2 000. These people have chosen this profession by their own internal or any other invitation and are doing their work, believe me, not in the most visible satisfactory situation. There are many of them that do not even come to these options, many of whom the country is facing in a way that introduces within the possibility of seeing and registering self-employed people in the field of culture, say, ratings. And the Member who presented the parliamentary position and talked about these people doing nothing, but getting paid, was also confusing the notion of what employees and what self-employed people are. Self-employed persons in the field of culture, those who are paid social security contributions, health, pension, disability and so on by the State due to their special achievements, deficit occupations and the possibility that there is no such place for people to be employed. But these are 1,400. Please, what is this in the case of the possibilities that we would like to have, and certainly it is not nice to keep spitting on the culturers, because once, twice, thirdly - we are finally faced with statements that we received years ago, if they are so overdressed and inappropriate and disturbing people. Now to the proposed amendment. The philosophy of temporary employment, as it was already accepted within ZUJIK in 2002, and when it took place in this space, I think it is a very relevant discussion that it is, however, a specific profession which must be slightly more flexible due to the nature of their work. It is also related to the term of office of the Director or Director or Manager, who decides, within a certain period of time, to be guided, where special professions should also be held together and then bound to the contract. This, I will not say an exception, but the possibility is not an exception after all, because the working relationship or the working relationship makes this possible and the Constitutional Court found that this is not a non-conformity, in 2009, when it decided on a complaint concerning the employment of playwrights who were supposed to be incompatible - ZUJIK and the Labour Relations Act. In short, this option is good. The fact is - it is inappropriate to speak in this room, but let me say - the fact is that one writer in the field of stage art, who has been employed for a time in one of our theatres, has become so angry because he has not been extended the contract for a certain period of time, that he has applied to us in Brussels every day, that he is still applying to us in Brussels - whether it is the EPK, whether it is a matter of the terms of a director, or whether it is a question of the compatibility of our legislation with European legislation, that the Brussels Commission has so decided. And it is right to correct and coordinate something that is linked to European legislation. After all, it is welcome for us. Let me go back to the question raised by your amendment. In fact, you think it would be good if employment for a certain period of time were, so to speak, employment for an indefinite period of time. Because if we extend the mandate five times, say, and this mandate lasts five years, then we get to 25 years - possibly. Of course, it would be best if our cultural institutions had the opportunity to increase employment. And I tell you, under the pressures they have when they cannot perform or employ more broadly than they should or could be, they are not well. That is also why there is so much greater dissatisfaction in saying that they are sloths. They are not doing well because in many cases they are doing the work that should be done by those who would be able to work if they were to work. And we can't hire. We are not police, we are not military, we are not heard in the field of culture, as in social institutions or where, despite the restrictive conditions imposed by this government in the face of a crisis period, it has been allowed to work. With us, employment is limited. However, this does not have so many common questions with this amendment. What I wanted to say is that, with the amendment you have adopted on the Committee, followed by, as we have already heard today, compliance with the social partners, as well as with the rules contained in the Annex to the Directive, we are somehow satisfied with what says a clearer definition of employment for a certain period of time within professions and within creativity in the field of culture. And as I said at the presentation, it means that it has to define at least three moments or one of these. It is said that the law must specify the number of renewals of such contracts or the relationship that must specify the maximum total duration of successive contracts or fixed-term relationships, or those objective reasons justifying the renewal of such contracts or relationships. This has not been so far, but as I said, there is no great danger that this would result in serious violence, because there are potentially such cases in Slovenia 6 and within employees who might want to be in such a form of cooperation with public institutions – in the end it is more or less public institutions, for two funds, which is not much in the area of culture, and these cases are not expected. But let's settle this, because now we can face a complete solution. The expressed will enshrined in the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party would no longer follow because it would not comply. And believe me, some gentleman who is watching over the situation in Slovenia, in sadness that he is not still employed here and yet, would immediately notice that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 12 and the two amendments, one being tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, the other by the SD Group of Members. If he's adopted first, the second will be irrelevant. I am opening a debate on Article 12. Who wants a word? Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Well, this proposal has already been highlighted on the Committee on Culture and has been supported by the amendment and also understood by the Ministry of Culture. Thus, some arguments need to be repeated in order for the matter to be solid. The draft law brings innovations in the areas of public tendering, co-financing of cultural programmes and projects where individual decisions are proposed for simplification and rationality of procedures. On the basis of the arrangements in force, applicants were not able to supplement applications in the field of culture if they were incomplete; they were rejected by the Minister by a decision following the regulation in force. As investors are often involved in societies that are not working professionally in the field of culture, the role of non-loving errors and also of incomplete roles comes into play. Therefore, on the basis of a proposal from a number of cultural societies in the SDS Group, we have tabled an amendment to remove such an arrangement. We believe that the quality of the application must be the basic criterion for the selection of the invitation to tender, so it must be possible for investors to complete their roles in a relatively short period of time, if these are incomplete, and it is mostly non-essential or even lapsus. We are aware that complementing applications could lead to abuse, but we feel that the deadline of 7 days to complete applications would not allow this. One more thing. After quite an interesting debate on the Committee on Culture, it turns out that the Ministry has been challenged or co-contested because there could be a build-up of additions, which means a lot of additional work for the Ministry. We have proposed to the Ministry to make an effort to do additional work, because, however, the people who are employed there are in a much more privileged position than those who are making applications and their error, which may indeed be a lapsus, is the reason that they are not subsidised for a year. So the difference is huge and therefore we will have to work a little more and we want the Ministry of Culture to work very successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter. Excuse me, I see more interest, I'll give you time to report to the debate. Please, who wants to sign up? Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	Good day to you all. Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleague and colleague, Madam Minister! Like all segments of society, I must say that societies in their activities and in their presentations, and also in their efforts to successfully run societies, have progressed and have long been not what they once were, just a group of people of good will who, of course, decided to work in some area and thus maintain tradition. In my opinion, as I said, after 1990, these societies, thank God, have come up with something. If I say only about Slovenian Istria, it is a very large number, and these are societies that preserve our identity, and these are societies that actually represent us and are our mirror. These societies, as I said, are no longer just a group of people of good will who want to preserve tradition, but also have their competent presidents, bodies and all that one society must have. They also have a lot of help from the municipality, they have a lot of help from the social development offices in the municipalities themselves, they also have a lot of help from the public fund, and they also have a lot of help from the ministry, so that these societies are today at levels, I would say, somehow, those that are not comparable to another time. I say this on purpose because I want to say that these societies are hand-in-hand equal and equally capable of all other segments of society and there is no reason to treat them differently, to think that they forget that they have no time or that they don't know - far from it! Five or seven days in appearance does not appear to be a huge difference if we gave six, it would be possible and would be right for one and the other, but I think five days is enough and that within five days society can respond to or supplement the role or request of the Ministry of Culture. That's why I'm going to support this coalition amendment. As society has already said, they are not what they have been and therefore should be treated as all other segments of society are perfectly capable, thank God, and they carry out their mission very well. As it is said, from where I come from - from Slovenian Istria, indeed, from 1990 to today we have experienced inflation of societies and all are successful and I attend their general assemblies and often go to them too. I think they're very, very capable people and, as we say, that's us and that's our mirror. Thus, a period of five days is fully sufficient for the job they are charged with if they are charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, at the Committee's meeting, we had a lot of discussion about whether or not to give extra time to complete the application, and there was a lot of talk about whether societies were able to prepare applications for tenders or not. Well, I think that societies are functionally literate and that they know how to read invitations and that they can sign up for invitations, and they don't come as lightning from the clear sky, but they also require a planned job. From practice, I know more about the pressure of societies on the terms of calls than I know that invitations would surprise them. Although there is some society of distinguished name and long tradition that is late for application, exceptions are always exceptions and it is always possible to make a mistake, but such a mistake also has its own educational role. Therefore, it is not clear from one example that the practice should be encouraged in order to prolong time, due to possible shortcomings in applications. If we are looking at Article 117, the opening of applications is and it is precisely stated in the article that this opening of applications is even public, that is to say that they must be for everyone at the same time, and only at the same time will it be determined whether the applications are complete or not. We are now among what could be heard on the committee, that it is only necessary to be kind to societies and to allow the possibility that there is a mistake to sneak up on, to allow for a shorter period of time in which society can complete its incomplete role. I think the five-day deadline is just enough. I don't think it's necessary for a Levite to read to the employees of the Ministry how fast they have to work and who it is because of whom it's known. These are good business practices and my experience is that people who have been employed in cultural institutions always knew about individuals, at least in the local environment, this could always, with certainty, have listened to, always advised, always helped, and here the Union of Cultural Organizations, cultural societies, is a public fund that also sends invitations, so that cultural societies are used to calling. I see, of course, the need to amend paragraph 5 because we have gone there only in this direction, that we have rejected the single role by way of a decision, because now every role is specifically notified, not all applications with a single decision. At the time we knew this was a temporary solution, and now paragraph 5 is actually replaced by what I can agree with: if the application is not timely or has not been lodged by the right person, the Minister rejects it by a decision. This is very important because it seems to me that we do not have to allow calls to be made within the time allowed, or for people who cannot do so to do so. And the new sixth paragraph is talking about exactly what I'm talking about right now and my colleague, Križman, was talking about. The five-day deadline is the time when, with the current possibilities for communication, it is possible to complete the incomplete role and thus avoid speculating, we have reported the project's title and then added everything else. This is about the little things that may have been lacking in the invitation to tender and, therefore, in the formal sense, my role would be perfect. Social Democrats, as we say, will support the proposal of the first amendment. I believe that this will largely eliminate embarrassment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, everyone here. Let me introductoryly say that I will support the amendment to Article 12. The dilemma on this, the deadline of five or six or seven days as set out in today's debate, and not least on the home working committee, is certainly present. For some it is seven days too little, for others it is too much, it can be discussed, but, however, there is an opportunity. I think that this proposal, put forward by the parties to the coalition, is acceptable, which does not say and does not say that the ministry, in its further steps of updating and reducing administrative barriers to notification and, last but not least, when calling for different calls, could find no other, softer and more accessible way for the profession to tender. As the debate took place on the working body in this direction that the hands are just such and some are late and take advantage of the opportunity and so on. It is true, however, that some societies, which, despite the very large aid provided by the municipalities, organisations and, last but not least, by the ministries, are not always sufficiently informed about the time-limits and invitations to tender according to the nature of their activities. In view of the fact that the number of societies is known, it is good to publish calls in one way so much more in public in a fairly accessible way and also, if necessary, to call all these companies because tenders are always segmented into their diverse activities. So if we want a softer and warmer approach, in the next steps of the ZUJIK change, we can actually see that the administrative obstacles, which are still, are, despite the great effort to overcome but to find other options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Minister of Culture Majda Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. There is no significant difference between the amendment tabled by the Members and agreed by the Government and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. In fact, it is days and perhaps even a dictatorship linked to the way a complaint is made or the form of a complaint or formal or not. But, however, the discussion that was opened on the Committee and was actually the result of some local-type representatives who are facing, especially at the municipal level, perhaps with greater problems than themselves at the Ministry, has now resulted in the fact that the obvious calls will last one month longer. Why? First of all, I must make it clear that this month will not, as long as you support this amendment, it is said that individuals who participate in the invitation to tender have the possibility of complementing the applications if their roles are formally incomplete, there is a possibility in some way - some say that they are giving solace to those who may not be careful enough to prepare the tenders, but, however, it is human that someone is wrong to forget something. And in cases such as calls for co-financing for four years, as we introduced last year, this is undoubtedly important. But what is important is that this month will not be longer because perhaps we are not at the Ministry of Culture ready to take these roles quickly enough to deal with them. They'll do it in five or seven days - anyway, they'll do it fast. The problem is that the invitation to tender will be extended for one month because there are deadlines attached to the service of applications. We know that after the application has been sent by mail, it is necessary to wait another 15 days if there is no representative who accepts this mail. And these are just such, even if only one day would be regulated and dealt with complaints or additions and objections at the Ministry of Culture, it would be less than a month. Well, this is what we had in mind last year when we met at work with the non-governmental sector, which is in fact the largest consumer, or the largest consumer, of these calls for proposals for our artistic programmes or projects and projects in general. The "non-governments" themselves suggested that this should not happen out of fear that they would not be late after the calls, or because of the fact that, as already Parliamentary Potter said, this is sometimes calculated in the sense of making an incomplete role, because they do not know, say, whether they do not have confirmed partners or programmes and so on, and then they complement it at the time of the call. But these are all unnecessary speculations. It is important to know that cultural calls are, in fact, the only factor that makes culturers go to finance is that they are the only condition, the only form, and are therefore very, very important. There can be a mistake and it is right that the possibility of it being eliminated. In view of the fact that these calls are of exceptional importance, the ministry has already introduced, and this also introduces, the announcement of calls, which means that potential candidates for co-financing programmes, projects or anything already know when they will be. That professional colleagues are available for clarifications - precisely because there were no objections, this engagement is so much greater - and is always available when it is specified. That all tenders have already been announced and then also published on the websites and that for some, especially the more demanding ones, information days are also available. In short, the pedagogical introduction is enough here. I think that practice is enough, too, that these things should be run away enough. But it happens that, for example, someone on the envelope does not write his name or the name of the consignor, the institution that he is applying for, and because of this, the project that someone is working on, let's say, a congregation for a few years, but that year he is not receiving any help. I also point out that it is important for us to know the following: it is not just the calls that are being published and regulated within ZUJIK, but also the calls that are being or are operating after the PIP, according to the Rules on the Implementation of the Budget, these are the famous calls for European funds, which are the most complicated and often even controversial, because there is no possibility of objections here. Then there are also invitations to tender following the ZUP, but in the area of culture, of course, most after ZUJIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I still see interest in the debate, and I'm opening time for the application. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. A minister with co-workers. I will support the amendment to Article 12, namely the one that speaks of an amendment within seven days. In fact, during the debate I found quite funny how many words and how many discussions about whether or not to extend the deadline for two days. In short, of course, the almighty coalition has a thousand and one argument, why five days is enough and too much, and in short all oh and all, that seven days is already on its head and all systems fall down and so on. The Minister has now said in the last part of the debate that - so, if this is true, then this is good - calls for tenders have already been published on the Internet. Such practice has been the case in the previous government of Dr. Zhagar in the area of regional development calls. If invitations to tender have been issued before, it is essential that the person who makes the call is not decided because there is an invitation to tender but is decided on the content. And if you make a decision like that, then it can really happen that you're reluctant, but really reluctant, if you've made a decision about the content, then someone makes a mistake; administratively, whether it's not signed or there's one leaf that is among the hundreds that someone signs daily, one went through and didn't see it, and so on, that they have the opportunity to undo this mistake. The right person has not filed - I mean, that seems too harsh to me. But who is the unjustifiable person; the secretary, the president - I don't know. I mean in that sense. There has been a talk that companies operating with the status of society or even societies operating with the status in the public interest - that is, those having this status of public interest, are already very professional anyway. I assure you, I am a member of a number of such societies that do not have any professionals, all work on a volunteer level, of course in a rural area where money for someone to work professionally on this is not, but money is for the program, the content that something happens. I have some other invitations to tender, announcements in front of me, and since nothing happens then, just as last year for regional development did not happen, because someone intervenes in an interface that is not competent for this, then, of course, seven days is not enough to supplement or correct this invitation to tender. In short, it would seem to me that if we supported an opposition amendment, but a truly difficult person understands that it takes so many arguments that the almighty coalition is always right. I'll support the opposition amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, I must recognise that some of the proposed legislative provisions or amendments are truly acceptable and meaningful. In doing so, I am, of course, referring to the possibility of complementing the role, etc. However, on this occasion, I must say that we do not agree with the proposed Article 2 which our President has already given in his explanation. And Madam Minister, I don't agree with your replica of his word. It's entirely self-inflicted, yours, unwarranted. A lot of what our president said will hold, but it'll never happen again. As regards the proposed amendment to Article 12. It's true, I agree, it's a formal, minimum difference of about two days, but it's not. These two days can be important, too. I'll explain why. Look, running cultural societies for public invitations to tender for many cultural societies is not as easy as you would say, a project is not such a simple matter. Here I am thinking mainly of cultural societies - not of this large, reputed, staffed to a sufficient extent that the Director actually only orders, but I do not already know how many lawyers who are in charge of this matter of public procurement and this is actually a feline cough for them. However, societies, particularly in the countryside, are far from Ljubljana, but they do not have these options. Therefore, given that you do not take this into account or do not want to take it into account, or you will always forget about these societies or these provinces - even if I do not list the other focus or other resources - I would ask that the amendment, the proposal to the Slovenian Democratic Party, be supported, although this will still not solve the problem. In 1993, 21 people were employed at the Ministry of Culture. Today, as you know, there are over 200, 214, which means 5.3 times more. I would sooner like to have a provision in the law that some of these 214 employees at the Ministry of Culture should be in debt, legally indemnified, including some people - for whom I believe that those who have nothing to do there - who could help with these calls, not only examine the invitation to tender, mention shortcomings, return, but also professionally, with advice, with good advice, helped those who, as a staff, think of societies, are not sufficiently equipped and who do not have the opportunity to approach the public tender so professionally. So I will certainly support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would also suggest that, as I said earlier, even in the future, this would be achieved, it is said, that I think of the assistance of the staff at the Ministry of Culture to participate actively in the context of assistance in these calls to such societies, which are not sufficiently staffed, say, equally, equally to match those professional, large, reputable societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Of course, it can now be much debated about an ugly coalition that refuses to listen to the opposition's proposal, but if we read the text of the first amendment carefully and compare it with the text of the second amendment, we would see that the first amendment has another amendment, a change to the fifth paragraph, which logically follows what is written in 117. In fact, there is a uniform form used, "for each role the opening commission shall determine..." and so on, and find out what it finds. It is logical, therefore, to continue then, "an application which is not timely or which has not been lodged by the beneficiary shall be rejected by the Minister by a decision." In this case, the uniform form is closer to me because it seems to me that it is more an individual case than a mass breach, and it is, in a language sense, a more correct form. Now to discuss why 7 and why only 5, because then we could also discuss why not 10, why not one month or I don't know how much longer. In this decision between a short and a longer period of time to complete the application, I shall simply place my consideration in such a way that, between the possibility of remedying the error of a smaller number of applicants and the intervention in time to obtain funds for a larger number of applicants, I give precisely that large number, by also allowing the possibility of correction for those who have committed any error. Otherwise, we are talking about it now as if there are only some small rural societies, such poor, poor people who cannot read the invitation properly. In fact, it should be considered how individual entities respond to calls and how they read invitations. I am not talking now about the calls, any of them, but about the calls for those activities related to the Ministry of Culture. And here it is so that the conditions are clearly defined. And once again, even with the activity, the work plan is already pre-planned on how the work will run, so I think that the calls for applicants will not be unprepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Because what colleague Potrata said was actually at the expense of my words, at least some of it, but not as a replica, but as a complement to its previous implementation, I would add the following. I don't know how someone imagines the countryside. Some people really think that this is the geographically pure extreme around Slovenia. It can also be what is a little out of Ljubljana and is in the relative vicinity of Ljubljana, it is still a rural area. But, see, in these public calls, I would mention the following: all too often there is an irregularity, but not only on the part of the notifiers, Madam Minister, also in your ministry. In particular, it is a fresh case in Murski Sobota. You know, when it was 10 million for the six projects you approved, for example, the project for the theatre hall in Murska Sobota fell out of the game. With your explanation that there was not enough professionally prepared material - this is a very relative concept, it was not prepared professionally enough. What were those inexplicable mistakes? That's not the only case. Madam Minister, we know how she reacts to these roles sometimes. Where there's more known, where there's some debt, where there's to be compensated, if sometimes there's a service to be returned, if there's any family ties, friendships, uncles, aunts, business partners, not to mention history back. I highly doubt that at the time of your ministry, that is no longer the case. More recently, this recent case in Murska Sobota confirms that you are continuing this practice, which has taken place in the past at this Ministry. It will not be true that applicants are always justified in rejecting applications. Many times, like this case in Murska Sobota, which will go into the debate procedure, I don't mean here in the National Assembly, but as a question of parliament I will ask you in a short time. I hope you'll at least invite the representatives of the Murska Sobota to an interview so it won't happen that they can't even get past your secretary, let alone you, so they won't take them seriously. I'm afraid we're not going to fix this marriage. These five or seven days -- that's a big little thing. The relationship with the notifiers, if they are from a remote or nearby village, must be changed. The way - not by way of a decision rejecting the role and saying that it was not sufficiently professionally justified, please. I hope this will change in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Madam Minister for Culture Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	We may have gone awry, but there's something we need to explain on this occasion. I'd like to say the following. You have now spoken of a second call, not after ZUJIK, but after the PIP, according to the Regulation on the implementation of the budget and it is European funds where applicants have had the opportunity to supplement their applications. This is what we are now discussing for the ZUJIK calls programme and everything else. And they had information days, they had the opportunity to consult with these employees, which you are dealing with with with with with reservations. They had opportunities, but the problem is that Slovenia has recently, together with the municipalities, accumulated so many good projects that have somehow developed in recent times that they can finally be realized. Most of them also have a building permit - I am talking about a cultural infrastructure owned by municipalities that can be co-financed by European funds. It turns out that last year - or I apologize if I do, but in the previous government there were no such funds. Last year we assured some of them, we doubled them this year, and we came up with $10 million. The claims were for almost 50 million. And such, perhaps also in the Sabbath of Murska, as you speak of the honourable Member, who may be building tomorrow. And I admit and say that my heart hurts when I see that in Metlika, in Koper - a number of municipalities we had to put on the second track or wait or the second chance for them to arrive because of the underachieved points - not because of poor projects, but because of the limited amount of resources. And it is bad, however, when we have so much and so much money from the EU that have good conditions, it is said 80-85 use of European funds, 15 countries, in this case: in short, 100% say that the municipalities themselves do not finance and cannot support them. I am talking to the Minister for Development about different dynamics, I note that we have 15, 16 million resources this year, that is, substantially more than in the past, when those they had did not know how to spend, and that we have them in the next year for 25, which means that something is better. But it's hard to see when congregations don't have a problem not having a vision of what to do, so they don't have construction permits, so they don't have well-prepared projects, but, as I say, in the culture field, they didn't have so much money in the past. At this time - what we can, as much as we can - 16 million 300 for 2010 and 25 for 2011. But if I come back to the subject of conversation or today's hearing. This call and invitation to tender for the EU follows completely different rules and criteria, which causes, believe me, a lot of discussions within the legal services - what is now applicable: ZUJIK, or PIP, or ZUP? And it's not right that there's so much trouble, but it comes from the legislation. We at the Ministry of Culture are investing in the SVR and also in the Ministry of Development but initiatives to deal with the call for proposals under the second legislation. But there may be something else that matters today when we talk about these invitations. We have supported the five-day deadline because it is agreed with by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Legislative and Legal Service is the criterion that ultimately guides us to a solution that is the best and most legal. In this case, it is the one that has been tabled and dealt with - for which recommendations have been made within the Committee's consideration and it touches the five-day deadline. This means that the tenders will still be terminated sooner. But what matters is something else. The fact that tenders are always catching hands, hunting for budgetary provisions and that they are, in fact, always too late. My visions should have happened a long time earlier. In short, today, not only in the government, in the ministry, but mainly performers should know what they will do in 2014, 2013 or 2012. That's how it's done in the world. This also creates programmes, especially public institutions. Those who are more convenient or annual are treated within the annual invitations to tender. That's why we're trying at the Ministry, even though we're having trouble because the finance ministry tells us what you're going to put on the call if you don't know how much money there's going to be in 2015. And it's true, you need to know what the government's policy is. After all, we have a national programme for culture that gives us guidance on what is necessary, what is necessary, what is priority, what is priority and what is in favour of this country. In this light, we have introduced or finally agreed to introduce four-year programme project calls for the non-governmental sector, which is the main cultivator of artistic production outside the public sector, is incredibly important and incredibly pervasive. This option gives the conclusion of contracts for a longer-term vision, which means greater security and also greater assurance that programmes are well-formed and that they can also have greater weight and international promotion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with the 12th? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 18 and the amendment to Article 18 tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Reale and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 30th agenda or at 22.15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - First defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on autor and related rights within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the word "magic." Mr Andre Visiak, representative of the proposers, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The problem that this law wants to solve is relatively old, neat and it is dealt with by many who are unprofessionally and passionately involved in cultural societies, as well as by all those who in one way or another help these cultural societies and those people to maintain their activity in order to preserve the movement of social and social life throughout Slovenia. It is true that copyright is a monopoly of authorship and that, after all, copyright is also the basis of intellectual property and the exercise of all the rights associated with it, and that, finally, it has also moved innovation and development everywhere and that it is a shrine. However, copyright also exists in conjunction with a whole range of other rights and interests of society as a whole. There are rights, such as facilitating learning, such as the constitutional right to information, such as freedom of creativity, such as the public interest and the interest of public security and justice, as well as the special interests of the public. And this is where we're running into this line where this copyright has also blocked some of the other creativity of society, and so where is this divide. In Slovenia, too, the non-life behavior of collective copyright organisations has established the principle that those numerous cultural societies that act unprofessionally, admiringly in Slovenia, in particular in the Slovenian countryside, which preserve some cultural activity, the cultural activity that gathers, connects, cheers people in these times, that some cruel ingraination of their activities by copyright organisations is also subject to the payment of collective copyright rights where it is not nearly intended - to be - or where even a humanitarian purpose and a wider socio-profit purpose is involved. That is why, of course, we have proposed two solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the Group of Members. The two solutions covered by this amendment are Articles 1 and 2 which are the only substantive articles of this Act. In Article 1, we want amateur companies or groups to be allowed free use of works of copyright under certain conditions, when the amateur society or group is performing at the event free of charge, and that there is no entry or where it is intended exclusively for charitable purposes. We believe that the burden of these amateur societies and groups on the exercise of copyright is long-term harmful for Slovenian society and for the development of amateur cultural activities throughout the country. Another solution is the solution covered by Article 2, which states that copyrights can also be exercised individually and not only individually. We are convinced that when the author chooses to give up this individual right, he can give up his authority or grant management. [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't have a problem in a collective way. [[...]] In doing so, we want to achieve a range of facilitations, especially for young and still uninhabited cultures and all those who follow this path. So, I suggest you support this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since we had previously concluded the 25th item of the agenda, we had informed the Ministry and the government representatives from the working presidency that the point was before that and they promised us that they were on their way. Can we wait a minute, really no longer, and hope they come at that time? So we continue at 10.48. Let's just wait in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we proceed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Copyright and Related Rights has, to a large extent, passed a time test over 15 years of application requiring the changes necessary to adapt copyright legislation to the needs of the use of protected works in everyday life and the new forms of rights that had to be regulated. During these years, certain arrangements have proved to be inadequate, there have been difficulties in granting licences to collective organisations, and the beneficiaries have had difficulties in establishing control over the functioning of collective organisations. Following the last amendment of the legislation, collective organisations had difficulties in establishing a tariff system, since the Copyright and Related Rights Act provided for a system which in a particular case did not allow the adjustment of tariffs to the consensus for a particular informal group of users who were unable to provide the necessary criteria of representativeness or majority on the market. However, there were also problems with the inappropriate legal arrangements of the system at a time when the collective organisation and the association of users could not agree on how to fix refunds and their amounts. The institution to regulate this relationship, the Copyright Council, has failed because of political manipulation and has been turned into an inappropriate game by experts in copyright law and lobbying by considering concrete proposals for setting tariffs. All of this led to the fact that the tariff of one of the collective organisations was co-ordinated by two representatives after the choice of the same collective organisation. The tariff adopted ended in court and the legal profession agrees that the decision adopted in the form is incorrect and systematically inappropriate. The operation and conduct of the largest collective organisation SAZAS has been a source of red thread problems and dissatisfaction both by the authors and by the users of the works. During this period, SASAS has largely lost the credibility it needs most in the mission to promote creativity. Why the majority of authors are dissatisfied with SAZAS: because the leading members of the company, which is allowed by law to operate in the territory of Slovenia, have adopted rules of action that provide for elitist decision-making and also the award of a very narrow circle of authors, of course to the account and to the detriment of all others who are not in the proper range with current leadership. This has been achieved by raising the price granted to a member of the regular member from EUR 1,000 to EUR 4,000 per year in copyright revenues in the past year. This reduced the number of members with voting rights by as much as 35% and now there are only about 180 members. For example, 54 regular members were present at the May 2008 Assembly with the right to vote and 40 voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report and the annual financial business plan. However, all SAZAS members, i.e. those who create music, receive or should receive more than 5,000 authors' fees. The business of SAZAS is decided only by 8 per cent of the music creators. Let me also remind you of the opinions and expectations that already have been written by members of the Žalec Cultural and Art Society in a petition against SAZAS. The petition was addressed to the President of the State, then the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša, and also to the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. It voted by calling on them to support the preservation of the cultural tradition of our ancestors and to enable cultural societies and all non-profit organisations to operate without SAZAS accounts. SAZAS, in their view, unrelentingly sends accounts for the protection of copyrights to all cultural companies for concerts and events organised by them. They also state the irregularities SAZAS commits and assesses their conduct. Among them, they pointed out that they charge copyrights at events where the authors received their payment; that they charge copyrights for concerts by performers who have been deceased for more than seventy years; that they charge copyrights for the performance of sacral music where the authors contributed their work for these purposes rather than SAZAS; that they charge copyrights to municipalities for the execution of state and municipal celebrations; that they charge copyrights for the same event to different users; and that they charge copyrights for concerts by foreign authors, even though they do not receive any of these funds. In short, they charge copyrights across the board. The petitioners informed us in the parliamentary group that, of all these initiatives, the Minister of Culture then responded and informed them that this is not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, but within the competence of the Ministry of Economy. At that time, the President of the State also committed himself, after their assurances, to seeking to regulate the area in this area. In the Zares Group, we note that such leadership of SAZAS is hampered by the creativity of Slovenian authors. The consequences are the lack of cultural events, the trivialisation of music and the deprivability of young uninhabited creators. Intransigence of business also affects the payment non-discipline of users of works of copyright, which even if they are aware that payment of copyright is necessary, they question the sense of financial support for such a non-transparent organisation. In the Group of Members, we therefore consider that irregularities, which cannot be remedied by amending the legislation, should be prevented by ensuring adequate supervision of SAZAS, by carrying out a thorough review of operations in all previous years and by punishing those responsible for irregularities. In the parliamentary group, we also believe that the existing legislation needs to be changed, legal gaps filled, institutions that have not come to life replaced, and, above all, the system of exercise of rights must be restored to its meaning by taking into account as fully as possible the fact that copyright and related rights are private property, the price of which is set by the private person and the price of these rights is achieved in the market by the price co-formulated by market rules. For this reason, in the Parliamentary Group, in the past year, we have invited a group of interested public and experts to draft amendments and to supplement the applicable copyright law, with which we have prepared the basis for a comprehensively regulated lack of clarity and irregularities in the existing law with the following objectives. Firstly, changes should be introduced in the area of fixing the amount and applying the remuneration for private and other own use, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia now provides for compensation for the dissatisfaction of both beneficiaries and debtors. Moreover, the existing arrangements for this area prevent the conclusion of an agreement between beneficiaries and users. Another time. To arrange for the granting of permission to collective organisations, since the current legislation with a somewhat inconsistent use of terminology leaves open the key question when a collective organisation actually acquires the nature or status of a collective organisation. In addition, in the authorisation procedure, a collective organisation is required to demonstrate certain facts which the collective organisation is not legally able to provide before the authorisation is granted. Third time. In particular, transparency should be ensured in the functioning of collective organisations, since the current system does not allow beneficiaries to have the desired and necessary control over the operation of the collective organisation either because of legal arrangements or because of the conduct of the collective organisation. In the Group of Members, we also believe that more powers should be given to the supervision of collective organisations by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, which has a supervisory function, but the exercise of this function is hampered by the diction of existing legislation. And the fourth time. The law should provide a more useful solution in cases where beneficiaries and users fail to reach consensus. The Copyright Council, which is to carry out or eliminate the standstill in negotiations between collective organisations and users in an expert way, has proved to be the opposite. The legal inadequacy leaves open the key question whether the composition of the Council is "ad hoc" on a case-by-case basis, whether it is a permanent composition, without the law in force laying down any mandate provisions. The Institute has proven to be a dead end in regulating the relationship between beneficiaries and users in its existing form, which is why in the Group of Members we really believe that it is necessary to take into account the wishes of beneficiaries and users in order for the State authorities to have the power to intervene solely and solely by the court. However, all other institutions must be in the system of pricing the use of protected parts only an optional option, which can only be applied by consensus to all parties involved. Since the proposal for amendments and additions proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank is far from a comprehensive regulation of the field, and in this respect contrary to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, we will not really support the proposal for a novelty in the Group. In the legislative process in the coming months, we are forecasting a comprehensive proposal for a new law, which will also be prepared on the basis of the starting points that we have prepared in cooperation with the interested professional public, users and beneficiaries of copyright in the Zares Group, a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Good afternoon! The Honorable President. Colleagues, colleagues. Madam Secretary of State. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be happy to support the amendment of the Copyright Act as it allows amateur societies and groups to use their works freely. This means that the copyright work can be used without the author's permission and that the author or collective author's organisation also does not need to pay any compensation for such use of the work. Of course, this applies, as in law, to amateur societies in which members act unprofessionally and do not receive fat fees from the arts. Of course, since amendments to the law are proposed by the opposition, it is clear that the Government is not impressed with them, but I believe that at the time of entry into the new year there may also be an opportunity for a new way of working and that, in this law, where we obviously agree that fundamental changes are needed, changes to the law should be addressed so as not to ask first who proposes this change, but to find out whether changes for citizens and citizens, for the country, for some area, are useful and also accepted. Because Slovenia has been preserved throughout history in the Slovenian countryside, where many cultural societies are still active today, and where individual cultural enthusiasts invest hours and hours of voluntary work to create many good cultural events that bring people together in the first place, on the other hand strengthen the level of culture and also belonging to Slovenia today, which I think is very necessary. Because they work voluntarily, they are also punished by a country with various payments directly to it or institutions, which have previously had a lot of speeches, which work with its help and care little about Slovenian culture, but have mainly been created as a professional collector, supervisor, controller with various inspections on the ground for the conduct of cultural activities and charging. In the Slovenian People's Party, as I have already said, we will support changes to the law. However, I think that this, as it began, is also an opportunity for us to think seriously and responsibly about today's regulation of charging these copyrights, which today is certainly such that it does not support the development of culture, but, in our deep belief, it is, above all, suppressing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act is as follows. After the first reading of the proposal, we assessed that further consideration of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights introduced by the Group of Members would be unnecessary, so we will not support further consideration. We have no doubt that the aim of the applicants is well-intentioned in efforts to improve the functioning of amateur societies, groups, and especially young and still unused cultural authors. These groups would, in the opinion of the proposer on the basis of Article 1 text, with the possibility of using the copyright without the author's permission and without the payment of the remuneration for the use of the work, be given more opportunity to apply in society at all, as well as in a number of groups of the same areas, which are already in place and therefore financially in a better position. In addition to existing exceptions and restrictions on free use, this would give them a new round of beneficiaries. As can be seen from the explanation of the Government's opinion on the proposal for a novel dated 3. 12. 2009 under European legislation, the circle of beneficiaries cannot be extended as the scope of the directive provides for a closed circle of exceptions and restrictions and Member States must not impose new exemptions and restrictions on their own. It should also be noted that the applicant has overlooked the existing option in the current regulation, which provides for the consideration of other circumstances under which the compensation for the use of the works may be reduced or the user may even be exempt from payment. There is no doubt that these circumstances, which would justify both the reduction and the exemption from the payment of compensation for cultural societies, can also be considered as those highlighted by the applicant in his proposal. As far as Article 2 of the bill is concerned, we are also joining the Government's opinion, which has also rejected the text in this part. The applicant points out, in his explanation for the article, that the basic article has been written vaguely and unequivocally and that it is not implemented in practice and that, in our view, it is not. Currently, the current regime allows the author to exercise only his own, own work at the event, the choice to decide whether to exercise his copyright collectively or individually. The regulation of the compulsory or individual exercise of copyright under Articles 147 and 151 clearly speaks and gives the author a very clear alternative to the choice, which the applicant in the basic law does not understand in this regard. We are afraid that the proposal, such as it is, is simply an end to the choice, which means just the opposite effect that the proposer wants, since only individual use of rights would be possible with his proposal. However, in the DeSUS Group, we are monitoring the well-intentionedness of the proposed adjustment, and we also consider that this is an area that is highly problematic and unregulated from the point of view of copyright and from the point of view of the work of these cultural societies and of all others, so we consider that the comment is intermediate and that the revision of the whole legislation should be made in a global sense, not in part, as proposed in this proposal. In the DeSUS Group, we do not believe that we will now support this adjustment. However, we expect a general modification of the whole legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! This is the case with copyright laws and related rights. The copyright user, I will give the most classic example - the inn, screams and "jamra", how expensive is the copyright paid by Sasasu, Zampa or anyone you want, how large the amount pays. On the other hand, my friend, a musician, like Tomaž Domicel, or anyone, warns me, "Yes, hell, we don't get much from the collected copyright funds!" The simple question is, where is this money now? Whoever collects and collects a hundred units from the user, those who belong to them, and those who have five units. Now, 95 is gone: where is this money? This money is God knows where and it's scattered because this legislation is a complete mess. As far as Slovenian national parties are concerned, it would be better if users did not use the possibility of an agreement for individual copyright work or collective collective exercise of copyright because it is irrelevant because it is completely meaningless. Someone serves on this account, on the other hand, the one who is actually the author can be wiped under his nose or nothing can be gained. Obviously, we all agree that this law of the year, I think in 1995, was adopted, a complete mess and some kind of robbery. What I really want to know is where is this money, the difference between the huge amounts paid by users, to the really very low funds received by the authors? Where's that money? Who's got it? Who, where's he going? As regards the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which is before us. In fact, it's quite simple really stupid for someone who sings or recites for free to leave because it's either charitable or charitable - and then has problems with Zampa's applications, arguing about the use of who the rightholder is, whether it's not, or it's not, or it's giving birth to [[?]] The song, and I don't know what one author suddenly showed up, but if the other one is the author, it's like he's not there, etc. Perfect nonsense happens in this area that I've witnessed to them. Well, the proposaler is right about this law. But why don't we start trying once if we don't already set up one smart system on the Copyright and Related Rights Act, but at least we'll break it. That would be better than what we have. And while it is nice to speak, as we have heard before, as everything is wrong, as some new laws are preparing and so on, everything is wrong, in fact, that it is the proponent of this law that does not support it, and that is not clear to me. In the excuse we've heard [[a million hundred thousand times]] There's a whole law in preparation, and in the 12 or 15 years I haven't seen it yet, even if I'm still sitting in this House, I know I haven't. Why not adopt this law, a proposal to amend this law? Let's just accept it, and we'll start a procedure, and we'll start shoving into that law that's bad, which is actually pure lumbar. Let's just accept this, and we'll start cutting into one marriage, and it'll start to tear everything apart, and it'll be a new one. I know we're not gonna see a new marriage here in this house. Now they're cutting themselves up, looking at each other and saying, "What are you stupid about in the National Assembly?" And they get a nice drop, like this, pum, every song that spins in a thousand bars, makes a nice drop of some euro. This is a few hundred thousand a day, of which one hundred thousand euros will go to the author for 10 euros a month. But that difference is, and they're snarling, and we're fighting and we're smart and we're making a whole law, and the other we're going to adopt this bill, if we're smart, let's accept it, we're going to start tearing down one system, and by breaking the system, we're going to have to build a new one, or at least it's going to be all right and fair. [[...]] [[...]] Let's do one system where copyright and ciao are paid once a year! And then let it spin and play and read and do whatever it takes. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights despite the Government's position, which states that the European Directive does not at all allow for enlargement, blah, blah, blah, I don't know what else. If we stick to the European Directive, then soon we will not even be able to speak in this House what we think if we are from another option, such as the ruling one in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the bill in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber and we will vote against the conclusion that it is suitable for further consideration. Firstly, the provision is contrary to the European legal order, which the applicants should know or probably know, since, after all, one of the signatories is the former Minister of Economy. Secondly, the proposed amendments are unnecessary and even harmful to operators or copyright holders. When proposing to list Member States whose legislation allows exemptions despite the directive, they forget to say that they have been expropriated before the Directive is in force, and it would make sense to fully review their copyright legislation and not just the work on exceptions. Last but not least, mentioning only Germany, Chancellor Merkel, for example, advocates protection, respect and control over the use of copyright on the Internet. In the work relating to collective and individual management of copyright, where the applicant in 151st Article does not take account of the fact that this exception in relation to 147th Article, which refers to collective management, is deleted "except may", thereby substantially altering the meaning of this Article. They take the opportunity to choose to administer copyrights through a collective organisation, a general rule and, on the other hand, authors have the possibility of individual management. This will not improve the position of authors, especially young and still unenforced. On the contrary, they may be placed in an even more subordinate position. In our view, Article 151 in force clearly sets out cases in which operators can manage their copyrights themselves, which, as I have already mentioned, gives them a choice. Last but not least, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights already in force allows the tariff to take account of the conditions of application of the works, both the setting of lower tariffs and the exemption of payments when it comes to cultural and other societies, in view of the purpose of their activities and non-profit. This may be determined or agreed by the conclusion of a specific agreement or through the Copyright Council. For all of this, and any other argument against it, we do not support the bill in the Liberal Democracy Club. However, if there was no misunderstanding and it was not clear to us that we were not taking sides or that we were against the exemption of payments to various societies, I would point out again that the law already does. With the proposed amendment, so proposers intervene in just one segment of copyright management, with the question of whether they achieve the desired goal at all; we believe that they do not. Therefore, as has already been said, we do not support the proposals of the law, but we agree that changes in the field of copyright are needed, which will make it easier for various amateur societies to operate more easily in the implementation of their programme and operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Good afternoon. Copyright is abstract and therefore difficult to understand. First of all, the question is whose right is copyright. Of course, as the name says, it's the author's. As the authors like to point out, this is the basis with which they serve their own bread. As they like to stress, as they like to compare themselves with baking, they should also be able to set the price and conditions under which their product, in this case, will be sold, copyright or song or copyright. On the other hand, the issue of freedom of access to cultural content and ultimately the wider question of the cultural wealth of our society and our space is the question. As it is said, the authors prefer to say that they have the right to set the price and the conditions under which they sell a particular right, on the other hand, by benefit; and do not complain here; the specificities afforded them by the current law, such as monopolistic regulation. Today, only one organisation for a particular cultural product, in order to simplify it, sets the price and conditions under which someone can use this song. Of course, then this price should be paid to one and the same organisation for the application of copyright. In addition, you have to use the rights of the same song, because one is the author and one is the performer. It's rarely the same person. And even in this case, you have to pay twice to make it clear. According to this law, we do not have a clearly divided concept of what amateur societies are, what professional societies are. However, it is not clear what amateur society is, nor is it clear from the proposal of this law proposed by the opposition. It says that a society that operates in a particular area where people act unprofessionally. But what does it mean if someone is paid through an copyright contract or through a student, it's an amateur society, even though people are paid? What is the line between cultural activity and non-cultural activity? What, though, does it mean to work through a contract of work or to have part - time work, or is it still unprofessional to perform or to practice? This law, which is presented here, is very vague and very incomplete. Although the opposition has done what is customary, the opposition draws attention to a particular problem and wants to provide a solution, but the fact is that this solution is very flawed. Why are we skeptical of this marriage? After all, if we look back a little bit, the previous law was passed in 2005. At the time when the Minister of Economy was the same one who today represents a change of this law. So, this same minister was in favour of the adoption of a single law, which is a single mess, and now he wants to reintroduce an unconcerned and unclear regime with which he will not achieve anything more than making an even greater mess. That's just a fact in this case. Let's face it, we need a comprehensive solution to copyright. A solution that will determine the whole type of relationship, how the copyright is calculated, who sets the tariff, how the collected money is distributed, or whether the monopolistic arrangement is still in order. Then there is the question of what is the relationship between collective organisations; between an organisation that protects authors, an organisation that protects operators; and what if we have two organisations that want to collectively protect the author. All of this needs to be addressed as soon as possible. As has already been said, the coalition has repeatedly debated solutions to the complete radical amendment of the current Law on Copyright and Related Rights and it has been found that these changes are so extensive, in fact ranging from the first to the last article of this Act. It is necessary to give a solution that will be good, not that will be good or, as someone has frankly said, "This solution is bad, but let us accept it, because it is already bad. Yeah, that's not how it works. If we're going to be serious, we have to give a good solution, if we don't, we don't give it. Is that right? Therefore, we can expect that in the next six months we will get a proposal that will be comprehensive, which will regulate how a tariff can be set, to whom a discount can be calculated, in what way, or only one collective organisation can protect copyrights, such as music, or whether there are more and more of them can compete not only with regard to the quality of accounting, but also with regard to the quality of servicing of the members of these organisations. In fact, the question is, what does a member, the author of an organisation that protects his copyright get from whether it is just part of it, because, as has been said, only part of copyright or more gets, gets transparency, gets transparency and so on. All of this needs to be answered, but a comprehensive response is needed. As a result, the Social Democrats will not adopt a law that is written "on the Horuk", which is short-written and which raises more questions than it closes. However, we hope that this positive energy, which today, at least if thoroughly sought, can be understood in this Chamber, can be used when we address comprehensive copyright solutions, and more importantly, I hope that the position with these ideas it has will be included in this drafting of the law, so that, given that the objectives we have almost all are united, the law may even be adopted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party of Copyright, we take the matter as a concrete matter, which has been discussed a lot, but there has always been a wall through which it has simply not been possible. There were no windows, no doors, no openings to reach the inside of that big wall. No one was satisfied with the situation, neither the authors nor those who were beneficiaries of the payment under this heading, anyone. I think someone presented the situation well before me, and the other said, "If there's a hundred tolars, five can go to the author, what's the difference? I'm not going to say that the division is right, but that's about how it happened, so no one was happy with it. It is true that copyright must be handled very carefully - it is intellectual property, mostly individually - especially in recent times when mass copying has occurred, plagiarisms from the Asian area. As soon as a cultural activity arose, when a product was created, a copy of the Asian market practically appeared the next day. But we're not talking about that. We're not talking about commercial activity. In this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are talking about amateur activity. Copyright also has its limits, it has its own framework. I'm not gonna say the legal framework because that's what states are. They have a framework in which they can operate. When there is also a lovemaking cultural activity in this framework, the matter is completely different. We need to be very sensitive, sensitive in our lovemaking activities. It is a cultural claim, it is a few hundred societies and a hundred groups that emphasize and nurture national values that emphasize and educate younger generations with the cultural heritage of a nation. We cannot act here or look on the side of money, by the financial side, and we cannot fully commercialise the matter. That's not how it works. That is why I said that we are not talking about plagiarisms, we are not talking about counterfeiting products that are sold mass in billions of loads, such as records, movies and the like, but we are talking and we are focusing on the love activity. Copyright is likely to take place in some other countries where we follow our example for a long time, and they can also assess the limits to which they can reach, and even though some of the EU’s founding countries, the coal and steel communities have resolved this matter. Allow me because much has already been said today, how this cannot be done, how the European directives are different, how nothing can be done. We're back in front of that wall over which you just can't. If the European Directive is such as Austria may have in its 50th Article of this Act, which provides that the public presentation of the published part in the original language is permitted, if the public has not paid the entry fee, if it is not a gainful activity or when it is purely for charitable purposes. However, this provision does not apply if the operators are paid for it. And we are talking about amateur activities where members of the participating groups, assemblies are not paid, even help yourself with money and pay certain costs. However, Articles 51 to 53 provide for the free use of published musical works and so on. In Germany, which is one of the founders, the founding member of the European Union, despite the directive, we have laid down in Article 52 that the public broadcast of the published work is allowed if the non-profit-making purposes of the organiser or if the visit is free of charge for viewers. Allow another example from one of the most conservative countries in this area, which supports copyright, is Britain, the United Kingdom, their 67th Article, which states that copyright is not violated when it comes to filming within or in support of the activities of the club, society or other organisations and that the following conditions are met: the organisation is not established to generate profits. In our group of fans, singing companies, gaming groups are probably not set up to make a profit. Not at all. If the recording is provided by a person who acts primarily and directly for the benefit of the organisation and does not work for the purpose of profit and, of course, if education and certain social aspects are involved. This is said to have been resolved in Europe, so it is not true that we could refer to European directives. For if, for example, Germany has in its legislation, which is one of the founding countries, it could not pronounce a transitional period, but at least 50 years of transition cannot last, and they have it. As far as I know, Austria has also been a member of the European Union for more than 20 years, and even if it has chosen a transitional period, it is likely that this transitional period after 20 years is long gone, and yet they do. This is said not to be the case, but it is a matter of good will, it is an approach, it is what we have always represented in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is an outcome for which many fit to be there and cannot be penetrated into this fort. Of course, we support the well-intentionedness that the matter is resolved even more comprehensively than we suggest. However, ladies and gentlemen, allow me if someone wanted to win the fort - I don't know the case that he managed to complete his wall and then build a new one, unfortunately not, but perhaps a small opening with which he broke into this system, into this fort and then began to change the matter gradually. That's how it is. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are proposing this experiment, a start for reflection and we are pleased that many of you have found that there is indeed something wrong "in this country of Denmark" or in this country, I do not know, copyright. But we just don't understand why, then finally, yes, and we won't support it because it's too small because it's not complete. We think there's something to start with, to break through this fort. It's the most important part to open things up, to start changing things, and maybe if we sent the law for further consideration, we could even come up with, I don't know, a comprehensive solution. We are open to proposals, to amendments. However, as I have said, it will be difficult for the fortress to be completely demolished, the entire wall. We will probably have to go gradually, so also show activities in other areas, the results in other areas and the way we could get to the top of the tower in the 100th floor, we could not just jump to the 50th floor, but we had to go through the first, second, third and also through the 99th floor we came to the 100th floor. Of course, we will be happy if the law continues its procedure and changes to complement it in order to achieve a comprehensive solution. We are afraid that if this proposal of ours is rejected and that we are talking about a comprehensive solution in six months' time, we have reviewed the government's work plan and in six months we have not found any ministries in the plan to change this law or anything like that. Now, if you have a different plan, but what is publicly published and we think we have the right information, because that's why the government doesn't have to work in secret on this law, we haven't found it in six months, not in one year, for this law to be in the plan. But if it is, then it's okay, and then we take the word back, but we haven't found that information. That seems a little bit of a vine to us. Maybe for closure. People who work in lovemaking and encounter these problems simply cannot shed light when they try to restore, as they cultivate the tradition of cultural heritage, so they have problems. However, not to say that I am speaking in mind, a particular example - a loving singing society or if you want a society where there are no professionals and who do not receive any fees, they also finance a certain activity, they stage for March 8th, you know what a holiday it is, a cultural event, a concert. And after 14 days from Sasas or an organization to protect the authors, the inquiry will come, please let us know which songs you sang, and you've presented them to the public. Of course, the society pleases this, writes it, and after 14 days of that response comes the bill. That account, however, is about as high as the donation to this singing assembly by the congregation for the whole year. Can you imagine? It's hard. But that's what's going on. This was about a year ago, when not only this singing society was given such a reminder, but throughout Slovenia, I don't know if it was some offensive of these societies protecting copyrights, like some attempt, if we succeed, then it'll be okay if we don't, but we'll see. But this is irresponsible and, of course, based on this procedure, which has already been presented by someone else today, thinking has begun how this fortress would somehow have been done so that at least some door into it, at least some window, so that the effects from the outside could have come from the ground to the inside. And we made this attempt, this thought. We are pleased to see all those who have found that something is wrong with this matter, but the way is to go looking for a solution, a little more difficult and that there is a gap between words and the willingness to make a difference. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect you to support this proposal. We will be very pleased, however, if there is an improvement in this process as well. And all that will go beyond our dawn as far as these changes to this law are concerned, we will also support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Aloys Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! In the presentation of the position of the Mrs Zares Group, it was said that we would not support this proposal for very substantial reasons. In the presentation of some groups, mainly by the proposer, many words were heard, which are sure to be heard by all those to whom they were intended; all voluntary societies, all the organizers who are working through this beautiful Slovenia to preserve the beautiful Slovenian word, song and so on. However, there was also, probably, a little bit to be misled or at least to misrepresent the fact. All those working in these areas are aware of these problems and therefore it is very inappropriate to assess how some of us woke up or just realized that something is not good in this country, not in Denmark, but in Slovenia, in this area, as has been said. But we have pointed to this very intensely in the previous term. So surprising, at least to me personally, is the ease with which the current opposition, in particular the SDS party, performs simple rescue measures to break down the fort, which you have certainly assessed in the previous term as a wall and a fortress without doors and windows, and that you have not done anything but a very bad solution in the entire mandate, which now appears and appears to be bad. Therefore, in an effort to understand well-intentionedness and perhaps in one part good intentions are also in this proposal, because such exceptional cases that appear on the ground are indeed condemned, on the other hand, one cannot believe that this is a serious proposal. If it were a serious proposal, or if the willingness of those responsible in the previous term were indeed such, this would be resolved professionally, comprehensively and in a way where it is necessary. Not in such a gradual way as you advocate today, with small interventions into an area that is very complicated. Surely the adoption of such a proposal would be an even greater confusion in the area you want to regulate. In this pit you even overlooked what has been said several times in the presentation of opinions that individual solutions are already possible in the law today, that organisers and authors also agree on exemptions, reliefs, not to be charged for individual events, because this is possible. What is more important has been pointed out in our position by the Group of Members that the system and a handful of people within the Sazas do not want to call it as appropriate, but which has usurped this position. And that makes it impossible to function normally, to negotiate normally, to make decisions about forgiveness, as much as possible in marriage. The data you have heard that eight percent of these authors decide on the entire policy of Sasas, then the solution needs to be gone there and not in Parliament to wonder where it is of the hundred tolars 95, but actually to look at it. This could be done in the previous term, when we were at the Committee on the Economy and when adopting this legislation, alerting us to what will happen in crafts workshops, in hairdressers' salons, in guesthouses and in particular in the area of amateur culture, in the event of kindergartens, schools, local communities, in order to get to know them all, we were also told. A very large number of societies combined with a petition against such a way. From the Ministry of Culture, in the previous mandate, we have only received a dry-cleaning message that it is not competent and that this will give way to the Ministry of Economy. It is therefore a surprise that today's position or proposal for a law was interpreted by Mr Vizjak, who should devote himself more to this area in the previous mandate and propose solutions because these anomalies do not appear since this year or since this government, but are related to the previous period. I am convinced that the assessment of 6 months may be too short a deadline, but it is certainly necessary to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the actual situation which is difficult to change in the way that one collective organisation so "equip" and assumes such powers as to prevent a multitude of others who would be satisfied with a different way of regulating copyright and related rights. Therefore, I also believe that, in some parts, it is necessary to recognise the well-intention of this proposal in order for the matter to be settled. On the other hand, just considering that such a partial arrangement would likely cause even more confusion. Above all, it is not proper to deceive people as it is regulated in other countries. We know that there were no such facilities before the entry into the European Union, which is why it is impossible to change after entry in such a way as to simply write them into law, but with other systemic solutions that I am sure will be proposed. Therefore, I do not think that this proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The Copyright and Related Rights Act has already been said during the discussion that it needs to be regulated in a comprehensive and more thorough manner, complemented, in short, harmonised. I believe this year is 2010; the law was passed in 2005. So in five years something has changed, and it is likely that certain things need to be changed. After all, the practice also revealed what was wrong with marriage and what needed to be changed. However, that the coalition rejects the changes made by the opposition, because it is obvious to the former government that it did not take all this into account by the time the law was passed, is once again the way we have been in Parliament for the second year. In short, I don't know why it's so terribly important who the proposer is or isn't more important than what I'm talking about today. If we were to finally start caring for people's well-being once, then it would be an important content and perhaps a coalition would complement it with some kind of amendment. And until change, until a complete change, which is not true, so in no government programme until the end of this year, which has just begun, it has been applied at least, that is, so much better, so much better, what is most attractive, in the sky, which is not right. The fact that an amateur society or group is performing free of charge means that for those performing free of charge, and therefore, of course, part would be withdrawn or no compensation would be paid. Or that, for those purposes for which the event is intended, if the admission is made, the event is intended exclusively for charitable purposes. In such a case, there are many times that there is no admission, but there is a voluntary contribution that people make. And 14 centuries of our history, our past, we can certainly thank the preservation of Slovenian language, Slovenian culture, Slovenian identity, Slovenian farmer, worker, rural etc., but not some high institutional stories that of course were not there. Today, if by what, then we give by worker, by farmer, by country, to everyone with a full axe, as by, I don't know, some societies where, of course, regret, every year show that some have become rich on account, in revelries, in culture, in sport or in humanitarianism, etc. In short, everything in the same basket throws, and in this case, when we speak exclusively of amateurs, who, however, with their net net net money, often finance their activity, to a large extent. This is what you already know, the state pays VAT and all the contributions, taxes, etc., they also invest in preservation and identity because they love this country because they love it because they go to singing exercises, because they go to drama clubs, groups and so on because they feel the inner need, because, of course, their heart wants this to be presented to the audience, again free of charge, again without any purpose, or if, for any charity purpose, it is necessary to send some money to these "some gods" that are in some offices, with a special law, supplemented by a special law, with 100 million euros, from this year onward. Unfortunately, it turns out that in this country only one town has begun to care for, and everything else has become irrelevant and it is not right, it is not good for the coalition to look and do so. It would be better if, at some point, we also listened to the opposition and could take a step back in the coalition, what we knew in the previous term, and then take two steps forward for citizens and citizens. You know, a lot of times someone asks me when we have a meeting of the National Assembly: "Well, tell me, have you been working for us citizens and citizens for a minute?" Unfortunately, until now, mostly I couldn't say that we worked for them for a minute, but that they were working for some others, unfortunately, not in the right direction, wrong interests, but citizens and citizens obviously have nothing to do with it. In this case, if at least this amendment to the law in this article were to be adopted, I would say to them: "We have done, at least that those who will walk voluntarily, who will voluntarily participate in various exercises, will be able to do so voluntarily or for charitable purposes, and you will no longer have to pay for it from your own pocket." I'll support this marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Barovic explained why it was a sensible novelty to support the law. For, as we have seen, it brings changes that will certainly make things right. The problematic law and the irregular state of affairs show that this novel is being corrected, which offers improvement and consistency in the implementation of the law. The novelty follows the objective of improvements, so it is right to support it, but it does not appear to wait for a more comprehensive change to be prepared, which, as we know, will not be in the short term, for if there was a wish, the situation would not be maintained as it is at this point. Of course, the proposed solution is not ideal, but it is certainly better and acceptable, because it saves badly with a better one, so I support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, the intention of all to lead to the present situation, which is not satisfactory for any, neither for authors nor users, nor for the system and for the reputation of all those institutions that deal with copyright, is obviously a very similar, common and also proposed law, of course, in the direction of finding a better solution, but at the same time, as we have heard, a step that is to a certain extent hindering what Members of the coalition want to achieve is a systematic solution, a new law that deals with this issue in its entirety. To this end, a group of coalition Members have already written some guidelines, some conclusions that will be on the table or already on the table of the Office of Copyright within the framework of, I think, the powers of the Ministry of Economy, and this idea will soon be achieved, this strategy, which is to lead to a new law, finally. So, hurrying now only with the excuse that the situation is unsustainable and we all agree with this assessment is not justified. But the fact is that this inadequacy creates a great deal of confusion and confusion when we think about copyrights, which are a very serious matter. My colleague from SD mentioned earlier the abstractness of this concept, yes, to a certain extent, in the perception of most is abstraction, but it is also a serious and specific right of authors to be protected systematically. It is for this purpose that organisations, the purpose of which is referred to above, have been established, including the Copyright Council, which is supposed to be vigilant, to ensure transparency in the functioning and management of these rights. However, it was clearly due to the lack of legislation to abuse, and we heard what the eyewitnesses were flying from all directions especially to Sasas, that is, to that agency, to that institution that was supposed to take care of such transparency and ensure legitimate copyrights of authors. We have heard that there have been some systemic changes within the institution itself, which has been placed on the pedestal of a monopoly. And this monopolistic role is the one that creates the most problems and also makes it necessary to change the law or write a new law. I come from an environment where I hear complaints from various societies, organisations, organizers, municipalities and so on about the astronomical prices they have to pay for the use of this or that song, often in a very vague, very unclear way, there is this calculation, the calculation of these costs. The fact is, if we allow such a system to continue, many activities, cultural activities, to say the least, will be extinct. The fact is, what happens to copyright today is the gradual, slow death of the cultural pulse in our environment, and I therefore need to act, and I welcome in principle the opposition's attempt and efforts in this direction. At the same time, I understand that it is better to deepen in a comprehensive, thorough and, in fact, to ensure the law as soon as possible, which will also solve this issue comprehensively. Many people wonder why this is in the domain of the economic sector. The conceptual area of copyright would be more easily attributed to the cultural ministry. But it's obviously part of an economic problem. He's operating on large sums, costs, money, which, unfortunately, only has the elite. That there has been such a change within Sasas that only 35% of authors or members decide on copyrights that smaller authors of these rights will never see, never get, of course, is unacceptable. I regret that the leadership of Sasa has not only been defined in a timely manner for transparent action and it has been, unfortunately, so inconvenient that today the question of whether we insist on the current system or change it radically, of course, is no longer the opinion of one political option, but I think that we all agree here that things need to be changed. And that's better than the opposition is now proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would also like to make public my personal position on the amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. I certainly support the changes. It is high time to finally begin a process of changing such an unsustainable situation, which, unfortunately, is caused by such a law as was passed in 1995. It would be difficult to find another law in this country that would be rejected by more payers or those who are liable to pay for copyright than in this case. Here in the first place, I think of smaller guest shops, various amateur cultural, even pension societies, when they benefit from certain works or rights at some of their events. The fundamental meaning of the objective and the purpose of amending the law is fully justified, necessary and meaningful. For it will be possible for amateurs and similar societies to function more easily. I agree that this law needs to be changed, complemented in its roots, because there is indeed something rotten here, not to say that it is a common thievery, we mean SAZAS, IPF and ZAMP. More and more there is a variety of bartering, a trade where there are no clear rules of law. In short, if I say so myself, "Balkan business." And it is imperative to put an end to this, to put matters in some legal order and to prevent such an unsustainable state, when a few of the specimens breed and this is spent on mangers, which are filled by someone else, and the benefits are not, or to a very small extent, measured by the authors themselves. A society like that, anyway, nothing. Mercenaries, that is to say, in fact, various societies are justifiably indignant because they do not actually believe that their money goes into the right hands. Not to mention, let me tell you that I personally became convinced by the demand of quite a few authors abroad. A few years ago, I remember translating a number of letters or requests from authors of music abroad, for example, even such sound names as Rolling Stones, Led Zeppeling, etc., when certain hosts asked to be informed of what kind of payment these authors were awarded for those works that were being played in their respective venues. You know, when I translated the answers and there were quite a few of them, there were funny things, some of these authors even claimed that we were such a country that was not legally regulated and that they had never received a single flower from it and that they had already asked themselves how they were not receiving any compensation from Slovenia under the title of copyright. That's what I found out in a practical case. That this is actually a practice, it turns out now that we see that this law is actually something rotten, that displeases so many people, and I think I welcome if the coalition really makes a proposal, they promise within six months that this matter will finally be settled and that these injustices will be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you. The word has a Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State. The MPs, the MPs. In the SDS, we have tabled the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights because we believe that a 15-year-old amendment and an update of this law are necessary. Copyright is the monopoly of the author over the exploitation of his copyright and belongs to the authors on the basis of the creation of the work itself. Copyright is a single right in copyright, from which are derived exclusively from personality, legitimate, moral copyright, exclusive property entitlement, material copyright and other rights of the author. The copyright can therefore be exercised individually, individually, for certain projects or group, collectively, also for certain projects. The Copyright Act is in fact an update in 15 years, as I said before, and therefore we are making a real change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The copyright law is very impenetrable and with multiple loopholes in marriage. I must also point out that in the guesthouses, guests are forced to pay Sasasu from the radio audiences of copyright. No, look at the fraction, in fact there were companies that started producing and installing musical machines in guest companies. It's no big deal, because in fact, these owners of these companies would also pay Sasasu copyright, but these owners of these companies collect once a month's money, and they don't pay their copyrights, and they don't pay their taxes to the state. But they're almost 100% investing money in their pockets, and there's no way this country and not Sasas has anything. This is the normal task of inspection services that are important in this country and which must regulate and check these matters. I am speaking from this point of view, because my fellow Members have reminded me of this as well as certain owners of the guesthouses. That's why we tabled this law, and I think it's important to make a change. It is true that there are still some things to be updated, but I think it is important to take the first step today, from this point of view, because this will start to solve the problem more quickly across Slovenia, with regard to Sasas and the owners of societies that can actually use these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We often like to say whether we boast about how many cultural societies we have and how they care about culture or the preservation of cultural heritage, especially extradition. At the previous point, we discussed the need for societies to be able and facilitated, and some things in this regard are likely to be accepted. In this law, which is a very important relief for societies, but mostly coalition MPs, although you see for yourself that it is a problem for societies to have problems, and you say that we should really make a difference, you say in the same breath that you will not support it. At the speed at which you work or change things, I'm afraid there'll be an end to the term before you can make a full law. It will almost certainly not be this year because it is not in the Government's normative plan. So I doubt you'll do anything more than what you've put into the normative plan, it's usually made smaller and not more. What's the problem? The copyright law was not passed by the previous government. The first Copyright and Related Rights Act was passed in 1995 and then completed in 2001. But it was also complementary in the time of our government. At that time, we mainly changed or reintroduced the Author’s Council and some other minor changes. Indeed, the law provides that tariffs shall be determined by the author agencies themselves, or those organisations or institutions which are allowed by the law, or then awarded to them by the Office of the Ministry of Culture when it receives such an association, for example, in this case the most frequently mentioned Association of Composers, Authors and Publishers, SAZAS, which received this right in March 1998. Then there were some problems with the others, the Author Agency and other associations, because it happened - what? - everyone would like to collect from those who perform or organize events, an author's contribution. And since certain things could not be discussed for quite some time, neither did the companies receive the accounts from Sasas and receive them for the last three years, the last tariff adopted by SAZAS was adopted in 2006. I am the president of the Igu cultural society, and if I say so from our case, in 2006 we had to pay 55 euros for one event, in 2007 - 59, in 2008 - 69. But 14 days ago, we got a 130-euro bill. And that's for three events that are completely different. One was organized by one younger group, they sang songs, and I understand that some copyrights have to be paid, then another, where they themselves organized folk songs, according to the Sazasa tariff of works of human origin protected works. We made this complaint, but at the same time we demanded that we know what they were charging us. They say that we can look at their tariff and then calculate it ourselves. But if for three completely different events in the same year give me some kind of lump, which is once more higher than it was last year, it's said in 2008, it's probably something weird here and there's something to be done. Once again, some of you mentioned, "We wouldn't rush, let's give it to us slowly." Today we say we have 4,500 cultural societies. If we work so slowly, we'll have 2,000 soon. In fact, the presidents can also be held accountable for what is happening in society. That's why no one scratches to be president anymore. Many presidents, however, even have lawsuits on the part of Sasas because they did not pay this contribution because they simply could not because they did not have that kind of money in society. No matter how much you tell Sasas that you didn't collect your tickets, that you didn't have any income, they charge you and expect you to pay for it. I've already said that in the Government's normative plan, you have no plans to do anything with this law. If you do not believe us or if the problem of proposing the SDS again, as we have already been accustomed to, listen to at least the cultural societies that held a second protest against such a method of accounting last December or November, to warn them that this makes their work impossible and that they will soon all cease to do so together, because obviously the country is not in the interest if it allows these tariffs to increase abnormally and that there is no feeling in this charge, because the matter seems clear, it has flattened out for everyone, no matter how many members it has, what kind of events it is. I'm afraid if we wait a little longer to actually land in a few hundred societies and those big ones that are financed by the state or, let's say, more in the state's interest, while all the other societies in the municipalities that actually care about all the cultural events in the smaller places connect people and preserve their heritage, they probably don't have any serious prospects at all. So, I would just like to ask that the coalition Members reconsider, and there's a lot more to be done, and then you think about it in a comprehensive manner, and you can regulate it for the next two, three years, as long as your term of office lasts. Now let's get these things sorted out. Marriage brings nothing but that these societies really forgive these things. You know, schools, libraries are exempt, I don't know what the problem would be, that cultural societies, these smaller cultural societies, the biggest of which, and those that have the biggest problems, would be exempt from the payment of the copyright contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In all this debate, we have heard that we should accept why we do not listen to the opposition to try to solve the problem, but there has been virtually no debate on the content of this law. Nowhere did we discuss what this law would solve and how this law would be saved. Why? Because this marriage will not be saved. This law may be written for good purposes, I hope, according to colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, I also believe it is written for good purposes, but it is written superficially. It's written badly and it opens up more questions than it closes. If we want to answer the questions that were also raised by the amendment and by the introduction of the Copyright Council, we cannot introduce them in this way, because we have not yet answered the question of how the Author's Council will work, how it will resolve disputes in the event of a misunderstanding of tariffs. It is still not clear in what way, it is not clear how a fair tariff will be fixed. Now we say, "Amateur societies." Everything's fine and fine, it's fine. The present law also allows exactly what it wants to introduce with a new law, it is written differently, it allows for collective [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Allows the collective organisation to determine these discounts on its own, which, of course, is in the interest of the collective organisation and to the detriment of the non-profit organisation itself. [[..]] But this arrangement has one flaw. Doesn't exactly say who is the one who can enjoy the rights of this law, it doesn't say because the matter is so badly written that we can give 200, 300 cases when you can say, "Yes, but it's not profitable, it's not profitable, it's amateur, it's not amateur." First of all, there are no amateur or professional societies in the legal order, there are no, there is a status form of society. Point 1. Point 2, what it means to unprofessionally carry out your activities. I'm asking you again, what does that mean? Does someone who works through an copyright contract not work because he is employed, whether in society he does it professionally or not, someone who does it for a third time, does it professionally or not? You didn't answer that question because you don't have the answers. Once again, someone who works for a third of the time, works professionally and unprofessionally, someone who works for half, and someone who works for 75%? So if we have 10 people working non-professionally for 75% of working hours, it's an amateur society. But if a society has only one person who works 100%, it's a professional society. Yes, we can blow, but these are ambiguities that are not set in this marriage and because they are not appointed, we cannot support them. I'm sorry we have to go so slow, but it has to be shown that the law is simply badly written. Such laws could already have 200 proposed in the previous year, and we are not because we were aware that they were prepared badly. In the coalition coordination of the previous year, we met five times, six times, we had more than five or six amendments to the law and they were all stopped because they were not good because they would reopen new questions. But our ambition, as has already been said, is to provide a solution within six months that will be comprehensive, closing more questions than it will open, not the other way around, as is being done now. It was said, "Yes, because you don't have in the government's work programme that this will be introduced." The government is not the one who adopts laws and is only one who can propose laws. Is that right? Here. So it is right to follow the government's work programme, gratefully, but you know, I will not tell you, because you know that they are not the only ones who can propose laws, even a coalition can propose them when the law is sufficiently appropriate. Why? Because the coalition can rightly expect this law to be passed, and it must also be made aware of the consequences of the adopted law. This bill, however, I fear that it has been proposed because the opposition knows that the law will not be adopted and has no responsibility for the consequences that will happen if this law is passed because it expects it not to. We also had another proposal in the previous year, which, by authentic interpretation, would correct a poorly defined legislative provision on the copyright councils, and the same one that proposed this authentic explanation, you know what he did with this authentic explanation, resigned from it because he himself found that it was so poorly written that it was so transparent that he could not go through the matter that he gave it away. The way this law is written is similar. Again, it's a superficial matter, and again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	We risk that in the second reading, the proposer will withdraw from the proposal. [[...]] The purpose is understandable and good, but the solution is flawed. That's the problem. We still have nothing better, as we are not saying that someone has already submitted something better, because the coalition has not submitted anything yet, but at least the opposition has proposed something, but what has been proposed, if we want to bear responsibility for the consequences of a particular legislative procedure, cannot be accepted. Because the consequences will be bad. We have to work for a few months, wait until June, so that we can have a comprehensive solution that will answer everything - not only partially and not superficially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, peace in the hall! This is where the agenda item is debated. Please, in the back of the hall, please listen! Colleague Jelinčič, Minister Erjavec, please peace in the hall! I don't think you understand. Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Andrej Vizjak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. So, after a good year of being in power by another government, we listen to one and the same. We hear that one thing that we are proposing is a good purpose, but that this solution, which we are proposing, is not comprehensive, is not complete, but at the same time there is no proposal by the Government and not by others. Moreover, in this case, when the Government has been alerted to the lack of rules on the charging of copyright for companies and the like, we have adopted a decision on the Committee on the Economy that reads: "The Economic Committee proposes to the Government that it take steps to prepare a novel of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, or even a new text of this law, because we know that the law originates in 1996, in addition to the rights of authors and owners of copyright or related rights, also taking into account the interests of users of these rights, such as: societies, humanitarian organisations, taking into account the problems that these users face in practice." None of this was done. This is the minutes of April last year, it is said that it has been three quarters of a year since then, and it does not appear that the Government or the Ministry of Economy would want to face this problem seriously. Even more, the Secretary of State, who is sitting here today, said at that time that they were, in fact, complying with the rules provided for in the law at that time, and that, if we think otherwise, the Members would be preparing the law. And then we even exercised whether we would put in this decision a deadline, and at what time should the government propose a novelty, and then stated that there was no time limit in the conclusion. This means that, by Parliament, by Members, the Government has received a clear message that this issue needs to be addressed. Now I'm listening here even by various parliamentary groups, so that they will try to do this more comprehensively, not the government. If anyone can handle this problem in a comprehensive way, it can be handled by the government, since it is likely to have capacity in many areas of expertise. After all, he also has more money to gain more knowledge if necessary. But that's not the problem. The problem is political will. You're not here. You're not here. And I fully agree with you when you stress and point out the contention of the organization and the correct functioning of the largest collective organisation of Sasas. But who gave her this power and this authority if not legislation? And who can take that power and those powers away from her if she doesn't? The reference to the European acquis is, to some extent, convincing, but not entirely. The Directives of the European Union are written in the spirit of some sonicity between the rights of authors and between the rights of others who are also in this story, in particular the use of these works of copyright. And if there is no such sound, there is a situation that is in Slovenia, when this thing has fallen in favour, we can say, also the vampirised organisations. However, control over the operation of this organisation is not or is relatively barren. And in the parliamentary group, Sazas and I even had one conversation months ago, and we presented the problem to them, and they said, look, we have to charge the use of these works, including companies and others, because that's how we're forced by law, to change the law. And here's the change of law. I would also risk this partial solution, even if it is at the border or at the edge of the provisions required by the Directive to finally resolve this matter. Pushing your head into the sand and referring, if it is not a system-wide solution, we will propose a better one, otherwise it is possible, legitimate, but it is very unconvincing and saves nothing. That is why this marriage text came to pass, Your Honor. Because there's a problem here. Solving this problem is getting longer. I have also read some opinions from representatives of societies on how to settle this thing with flats and the like, because something flat-rate is already being regulated, charging the use of works in certain other cases, possible, but in the SDS or a group of Members has proposed this solution to finally only deal with the arrangements. The adoption of this law, at least in the first reading, may be a step towards this. In further readings, someone can also kill him to the point that he will no longer be followed by the original purpose, as has already happened in the past with various marriage proposals. We will not, by any means, deviate from this text and from the initiative to finally resolve this issue. Is Sasas the Parliament? I don't think so. Sasas will be framed in the legal order laid down by the law and the law has a key influence on Parliament. That's why this proposal is the law. It is also interesting to read this in the Government's explanation, when certain other countries, which form an integral part of the proposal in terms of international comparison, can afford a few derogations from the directive because they have accepted this in their legal order before the Directive comes into force. But we, because we did not have these arrangements before, are victims of such, widespread, truly unacceptable solutions. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if we are to solve this problem, we also need some courage and, above all, political will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'll ask you to sign up. Three panellists and one panellist have been reported. Everyone has five minutes. The word is Silva Chernugel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, Secretary-General, dear colleagues. The Law on Copyright and Relative Rights is certainly one of the most difficult laws. The very reason that it goes very gradually and carefully into its changes not only in our country but also in Europe, and not least in other countries, means that because of its complexity and the breadth of content it deals with, it is not so easy to change. Days ago, I had an opportunity to look into some of the articles of our famous experts in this field. Among other things, one said that we all violate the law in one way or another. Just because the law is as extensive as it is - the way to control all possible areas, which this law contains in one way, is also difficult. Of course, I understand that it is very legitimate and interesting to be liked and to try to reduce taxes that are not small. But in the case of partial solutions and very specific solutions that are available here, we may come to another situation in order to make injustice or discrimination to other societies, which are equally, one way too much to deal with or are being charged more. Last but not least, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights cannot be dealt with in any way in the relationship of Sasas society, no matter how and how we define societies, because I think that the proposer may have defined societies on purpose in this sense. The database protection directive has recently been adopted. I've been reading our article, I could say, a world-renowned copyright expert. [[Mihe Trampuža]] on the protection of cartographic works and copyrights arising from cartographic works. I read an article about how we have a directive talking about databases, databases and databases and how and how we would protect this segment. It's not easy, it's very complicated. There are very few practices in our field in particular illegal, so to speak, we must apply case law and practice in general from other European countries and not least global practice. Such partiality will be difficult to deal with so demanding a law and the content of the law. I believe that if we support this bill, many more authors will be found, or those who believe that their copyrights are not sufficiently protected or that they are also not sufficiently paid for copyright protection. That is why I think we have to wait for one comprehensive solution that has been in preparation for many years, and this solution will also be given to one general public hearing, and then we can all have the opportunity to discuss it. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I ask for relative impatience and that we wait for this comprehensive solution, despite the fact that I believe and hope it will not be ideal, because the area is very large. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, it can also be debated in a way that the bill does not support the coalition because it is opposition. But some who had a little earlier said about the subject have forgotten how they acted in the previous term. But it's not my intention to talk about these things. I'm more interested in other things. When we discussed the previous law, the same parliamentary group proposing this law advocated the very closed possibility of granting social status in the public interest. Determination of the status or granting of company status in the public interest is essential for obtaining the means. If society receives funds, it can work better and then the whole chain goes on. I'm here to defend my own well-established terminology. We have a cultural society in use of terminology, and now here suddenly a new terminology of amateur society is being established. I don't know where the folklore will go, but the folklore will do something else. I'm not going to open up all the embarrassments that come with this, but obviously it was a problem, it was embarrassing, it wanted something to come up, and the question is, is what happened really thoughtful enough and good enough. And I have the right to think that's not good. The solution proposed here is not good. I myself asked the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Culture at the 10th meeting of the National Assembly the question of exactly how to get out of the way and how to enable cultural societies to function normally in the context of the accounting of copyrights, which are sometimes unreasonablely high for events that are not profitable in nature. And I asked -- and here I see the problem because it's in the Ministry of the Economy domain -- because it seemed from the Minister's answer that he didn't see the possibility of amending the legislation. However, the Association of Cultural Associations also considered, in its 7th paragraph of the Memorandum, the way in which the law was amended so that it could possibly be accounted for in the way in which the library compensation was calculated. It is said that copyright rights are not Tangled or neglected, but also non-profit, i.e. this non-profit activity of cultural societies is protected. Because I see the problem right at the border between how to protect copyright on the one hand and, on the other hand, make it possible for cultural societies to work. You know, when we talk about amateurism and what can and cannot be paid, high-quality choir singing is provided by professional conductors, tutors, only membership is unprofessional, is amateur. There's a whole bunch of things we should be dealing with. It seems to me that we should primarily take care of the good functioning of activities that have a very rich tradition in Slovenia, which also opens new chapters and doors to new artistic directions in those parts in which professional institutions, for example, do not want to open doors or can't open doors. And it's not just something that's ancient, and it's more related to what doesn't fall under a 70-year exemption, because of that 10 years have passed and then it's a copyright exemption. There are a lot of problems. I also know that there is a very strong protest among cultural societies at the moment because of all that is happening. And I think it's a good time to think about things thoroughly, to find a really good solution. And that we don't play table tennis with this and get caught between the opposition and the coalition, because I hope that at least in cultural societies it's not yet a living policy and that there are people of a wide variety of political beliefs and it doesn't matter who's from where, it's important what kind of activity is. Our job is to ensure quality action. I expect that the Government will indeed come up with a quality proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Some of you pointed out that we weren't talking about the law. We have proposed a general debate, so we also speak much more generally. If we really all figure out the problem together, we've decided to solve one problem. We have not announced that we will amend the Copyright Act and solve all problems from tariffs to what I do not know. We have said which particular problem we want to solve, this is the charging of the author's fee or compensation to cultural societies. They warn that they have a major problem with this. This is one problem we want to solve. Everything else should be prepared by the Government as directed by the Economic Committee's decision six months ago. If you think things need to be settled, you would normally agree that the law is suitable for further consideration and that further steps in the process would be taken. No, you want this to go as soon as possible on the agenda and we stop dealing with it, with some promise that someday we'll get a comprehensive law very soon, because this one is written superficially and I don't know what else. We have detected the problem, so we have also said what problem we want to solve. Sazas is charging the event, the event must be declared. What was going on out there? This article, which we propose, spells out exactly who would be forgiven if the company or group performing the event is free of charge and if there is no entry at the event, unless it is wholly for charitable purposes. Just these two things, and it has nothing to do with who is employed in society, who is not employed. We don't handle this. You're going to propose this to your colleague and do what you think you're going to do. I'm sure things aren't easy. That is why we did not pursue the ten things that should be regulated in this law, but, as we say, those that we think are very current at this time. We know that some presidents have major problems, they have lawsuits, so we suggest that this is the case and it is perfectly clear which events are to be charged. If the problem is what we now call amateur societies or not, it is with the amendments to correct if it is the intention to fix something, otherwise not. But not just to say, it's prepared badly, superficially, let's get out of the agenda as soon as possible, because we don't care. I think it's serious. On us, as well as on you, I am sure, the representatives of societies are turning, and with the law that is now under general consideration, it means that there will still be proceedings on the committee, that things will be possible to be amended and prepared to be more acceptable and that there will in fact be no confusion. But it's a long way from accepting this, and now everything is going to collapse and we're going to collapse the whole system or what the terms here were. I would only suggest that we say to the law at this point that we continue to correct it as you think it would be better and that the matter will drink water or what it is called.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. You know, there was a big event in Cyprus in December. And a few concerts near where I live, I can also hear live and out loud every night. Every Friday, every Saturday was a concert called the so-called Koper event in New Year's Eve. There were other concerts at the second tent in Bertok. Many of these concerts were free of charge. The admission was free of charge, as local institutions, municipalities or similar institutions financed the event, co-financed it, and the organisers working for the purpose of profit obtained a number of sponsors who advertised in such a way and otherwise covered the matter not only financially but also had a remainder or profit because they were professional organisers and knew how to serve it. A much higher profit, including at the expense of the catering services provided there, than if the entry point had been the case. Maybe it's different, but I have to say on the coast we're already a little spoiled, and where the concert is with the admissions, we're just not going anymore. Such an event would be exempt from copyright payments under the provisions of this Act. So someone who has earned 10,000 euros on account of the music that some authors have received would be entitled, according to the provisions of this law, as now proposed, to the authors not to pay even the euro of contributions, given what they themselves have earned. Exactly, with one example, I proved that this marriage is flawed and incomplete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government of Mags asked for the floor. Darja Radic, Ministry of Economy, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President. Nicely greeted. Dear Members and Members. As we have missed the opening presentation, I take this opportunity and also respond with some comments to the debate on this law. Of course, I would like to point out in the introduction that the Government has adopted in this regard the view that the law is not suitable for further consideration. There are two main reasons. The first is that, which has been mentioned several times before, we do not, in fact, solve the issue proposed in this law, and we particularly want to regulate the area of copyright and related rights in a comprehensive manner. The debate made it very clear that this area is very problematic that there are many open issues. And with such an approach, to prepare two articles of the law and thus to start a debate on such a broad issue, and to hope that we will reach a quality law through Parliament and through amendments, this certainly is not the right approach. So, in the government, we will advocate a comprehensive approach to the drafting of this law. The professional legal solutions in this area are already being prepared and, as Mrs Jerajev himself said, the matter is certainly not simple. I hope you understand that it will also take a little more time for the professional solutions of the law to be prepared so that the law will finally be able to benefit and satisfy all its users. However, there is no basic reason why the Government does not agree to deal with this law in non-compliance with the approach itself, with the partial treatment and resolution of individual issues. The key reason for rejecting this law is that its solutions are simply contrary to European law. This has already been exposed several times today, and the fact is that the application of Article 1 amending Article 49 of the existing law would constitute a violation of Directive 201/99, which would mean that if the Council of State had adopted this, the European Commission would have brought proceedings against us as a result of a violation of European law. This is the basic reason - the proposal constitutes a violation of European legislation. I think I have a duty here to explain this in relation to comparison with other countries. It is true that Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom have these things so regulated in their legislation. However, it is necessary to read the Directive and to look at and see that, in fact, the scope of the exceptions and restrictions relating to copyright in Austria have been closed in the United Kingdom following the adoption of national legislation. It is said that since the adoption of this Directive only exceptions and restrictions allowed by the Directive can be taken into account or taken into account by national legislation. Those countries that have done so before, which have established the situation before, have been able to regulate these things, and we do not have these options, as do all other countries, who would now like to do otherwise in this area. So much for me, it is said, the key reason why this law is not suitable for further consideration is that it is in fact not in accordance with European law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan procedurally? I closed the debate. You had a chance to sign up. As the Rules of Procedure provide, I have opened the way for discussion, so I must conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 30th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is for discussion on the reply of the Minister of Environment and the space of Mr Viktor Erjavc to the business question of Vito Trofenic in connection with the special use of water and the payment of concessions. At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response put by the Minister of Environment and Space, Karel Viktor Erjavec, to the question of the special use of water and the payment of concessions. I give the text to Vito Trofenik for further explanation of the request for discussion on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space. Please, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you for your kind greeting to all present, especially Minister Erjavac. At the 10th regular meeting, I asked the Minister about the issue of paying the concession fee for the energy exploitation of the Drava River. In 2003, the Government adopted a Regulation on concessions for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity. This Regulation provides in Article 10 that a concessionaire, such as Drava power plants, shall pay a concession fee of 10% of the value of the electricity produced. This concession fee is divided between the country, 40%, and the nineteen local communities from Dravograd to Ormož, 60%, by key 30% by area and 70% by potential or energy drop in the area of the municipality. The Minister correctly answered that part of the question concerning Article 10 itself, or the implementation of Article 10, but it is necessary to know that this regulation provides for two concession fees, namely the permanent 50-year concession fee which I have just discussed. Second, temporarily, up to and including 2007, which contributes to the sixteenth congregations from the nineteenth to one-year amounts. However, this concession fee has clearly been a problem since, in 2007, on 27 December, the Government, four days before the end of the year, adopted a correct regulation because it is being resolved every year by means of annual regulations, but this Regulation has only been published the following year, on 4 January 2008, and it appears that this Regulation has not been consumed and has not been received from the municipality on the basis of this Regulation, at least some of the resources it belongs to them. Of course, several questions are raised why the responsible authorities do not follow up on this, because this appeared to be from a poorly prepared response, where the co-workers prepared for the answers to these questions to Minister Erjavac or how this issue will be addressed, because the problem is that the retrograde of the regulation, which occurred by accident or intention, has been published next year, has been valid since 5 January 2008, and it seems that the regulation has not been implemented and that the claim of 16 municipalities in the annual amount of EUR 1 million 532 000 715 for 16 municipalities remains open. I think this is unacceptable in the rule of law and I expect an appropriate response. Did the congregations receive this address? If they got what they got and didn't get? And how does the government plan to remedy this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	I'm only asking for one sentence. I must point out that it is only a case where this issue and this debate in the National Assembly coincide with current political developments, and this issue has never had a direct link with the current minister, who has inherited the situation from the previous mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, has the floor. Please. Mr. Secretary, let's talk about the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	All the nice greetings, in particular to the President of the National Assembly, including the Member who asked me this question, some time ago, and I sincerely believe that he has set it up sincerely and that this has nothing to do with current political procedures. I actually have to agree with what you said about this booth. Indeed, it is two concessions, the first concession relating to water use, that is to say that 10% of all electricity revenues receive 19 municipalities in the proportion of 60% of this concession. You yourself have admitted that I have already answered this question correctly at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. However, I did not answer the question, which in particular remained a legal question, perhaps a political question, but I would not like to speculate. The fact that 16 municipalities should receive a single amount in respect of the second concession. The fact is that the Government of 2007 correctly adopted that Regulation. However, it was then published in 2008 and we have a very serious legal question here. I must say that at this point I cannot give you this answer, because it is not a political question, it is a legal, professional question, as the Minister for the Environment, I never force the profession to tell the profession how we will resolve this legal question. The fact is, however, that 16 congregations are deprived of this title. They did not receive €1.5 million, which could be used very usefully for greater flood safety, and we finally know what was going on in those days when I myself had very serious problems, even with the waters we had severe problems, we did not know what was going to happen. Fortunately, nature has made us feel sorry for ourselves, so that someone else is up there watching over us, and I hope that I too will be over me. As far as this is concerned, we will be the million and a half euros, but it seems right to receive these municipalities, because it will not go in the pockets of mayors, municipal councillors, but it will be intended, at least hopefully, for greater flood safety. It's a huge amount, and I think we can do better to ensure the safety of citizens, so that they don't have watered cellars and so on. However, first of all, this legal issue needs to be resolved, I assure you, unfortunately, there will be a need to find a really good lawyer at the Ministry and we will use external assistance to resolve this issue. It is true, however, that it is not understandable why the regulation was published only in 2008 and today we have this legal issue. I believe in the Court of Auditors that this particular matter should be reviewed, in a professional way, politically, we will see what forces were in the background that contributed to this regulation being published only in 2008. However, I fear that injustice will not be found to be a web of very unusual circumstances that have contributed to the fact that this regulation was published in 2008 and that, as a result, the community most in need of this million and a half is deprived of it. I don't know what my responsibility would be if there was a severe flood in the area of these congregations now in December, perhaps some kind of mortal sacrifice. I think it would require my responsibility again, because it is necessary to know that the Minister is obviously also responsible for the irregularities committed by someone in his mandate in the previous term. This is the political logic in Slovenia, so the political responsibility of each minister is measured. True, those who no longer perform this function are no longer in line, no matter how foolish or foolish they may have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you. Respectable. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that today's debate will finally offer some more concrete answers. Although the Minister has already described how things are technically going, it seems to us that there is some confusion in the monitoring of calculations and payment of concession payments in cases of specific water use. Otherwise, in Slovenia there are fewer applications for concessions, especially for electricity production. Concession must also be obtained for the production of drinks, the needs of bathing sites, health centres, the production of electricity at the hydroelectric power plant, ports, for the collection of floods and for the cultivation of aquatic organisms. We are interested in how much money is collected from this title in the state budget, but of course how much money actually comes from municipalities that should receive 60% of the concession fee in relation to the country. In response, the Minister said that these payments were being made, but we know that in practice this did not apply to all municipalities. We therefore expect today's debate to finally provide concrete and factual data on payments and information on why payments did not occur in some municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, too, Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a re-examination of concessions for the specific use of water, which is charged on the basis of a specific formula published in a specific regulation which is an integral part of the concession contract in an article setting out the payment for the concession. These are irregularities arising from the distribution of concession fees, for which 19 municipalities are deprived, which should also receive these funds under the regulation. We would like to see this debate truly come to light why these funds are not distributed among the eligible municipalities, who are responsible and what solution is possible, that such irregularities will be no more, and what data are true, those available to Mr Minister, or those with whom Mr Trofenik has the resources, and, of course, that the response of Mr Minister will be satisfactory to the debate, to the extent possible. The fact is that it would be most fair, but also in accordance with the Cohesion Regulation, that cohesion funds, which are few, are distributed as signed or written in the Regulation. The concession regulation itself specifies precisely and strictly how these funds are to be distributed for what purposes. Therefore, according to our assessment, they may not just be lost on some websites or, rather, certain transaction accounts, but they must come to those to whom they are also strictly intended.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll start with what Mr. Secretary said in response. He said: "In view of the above, I will order the Environment Agency to verify how these payments are being made, in particular for the sub-account relating to local municipalities, so that we can determine whether these payments are actually being made if they are not carried out, as I have already said, we have the option of the worst measure, this is the withdrawal of the concession for the specific use of water." That's what the Minister said. The lack of this debate, which is here today, is that we cannot take any conclusions. I'm interested in how we're going to react to the fact that this irregularity is being remedied. Will the Minister take action against those who take their jobs very seriously at the Ministry if the Minister is still able to do so? They have very little to do with their work. All I can say from this is that there is something wrong with the Ministry and that the Minister has been repeatedly misled, as is evident in this case. And I personally do not blame the minister for not getting this money, but those who, as enforcers of the laws and regulations, should make this happen. But, look, ladies and gentlemen, nothing will happen again, nothing will happen. And we know where that money went. This money is expected to go to ZVON EUR 1 25 million, and now the competent authority has no money to pay to the municipalities. And if that's true, Your Honor, I'd ask you to call the CSIs at your ministry to investigate and expose this criminal organization, if that's true, because the municipalities are expecting this money. This money could also create a developmental image of its environment, and I expect you to ensure the implementation of legality in this area. I would also like to hear the name and surname of the person responsible for this activity. You said yourself you'd explore it. Time was more than enough. The fact is that we could have a culprit now, especially because in fact this money is flowing from every kilohour that is produced. So it's money, the question is, where did he go? He didn't go the way he was supposed to go, through those channels to the congregations, but he went to some other account. We well know that the church cannot return this money now, it is for 25 million euros. The responsible person who has done so is also no longer employed where she has been before, and in fact nothing of the kind is going on in this area, so that we can say that we are guaranteeing legality. Earlier, someone who steals one chocolate in a store is punished, of course, rather than someone who takes millions into a semi-private account. This story, according to us, is worth some other treatment. At this point, I also call on the President of the National Assembly, who is the first of the same to ensure that such widespread debates are also concluded by a smart decision. For today we will only speak, but the conclusion, as it has already been said, cannot be accepted according to the Rules of Procedure, but that is sorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, Mr. Minister. In the Group of Social Democrats, at least some supported the proposal by Mr Willi Trofenik, a fellow Member of Parliament, for an extended debate at the meeting of the National Assembly on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Environment, on the issue of the specific use of water and the payment of concessions. In order to regulate the concessional relationship with regard to the economic use of Drava river water for the production of electricity in a manner and under the conditions laid down by the Water Act, the Government adopted a Regulation on concessions for the use of the Drava river for the production of electricity. The concession was awarded for the production of electricity in the Drava River hydroelectric power plant, namely Dravagrad, Vuznica, Vuhred, Ozbolt, Fala, Maribor Island, Zlatoličje and Formin. The river Drava in Slovenia runs through the following municipalities, and these are 19. These are the municipalities of Dravograd, Muta, Vuzenica, Radlje ob Drava, Podvelka, Lovrenc na Pohorje, Selnica, Ruše, Miklavž, Maribor, Duplek, Starše, Hajdin, Ptuj, Markovci, Videm, Zavrt, Gorišnica and Ormož. The concession was granted by a decision fixing the concessionaire on 3 April 2003. The Government's regulation has also made very clear how concession payments are regulated. The revenue from the concession fee shall be the source of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the budget of the municipalities in the area in which they are hydroelectric. The share of the concession fee belonging to the Republic of Slovenia shall be indicated in the calculation of the revenue from the concessions granted for water rights belonging to the State. However, the share of the concession fee belonging to the municipality shall be indicated by the calculation of the revenue from the concessions awarded to the municipalities. The concession fee shall be distributed between the State and the municipalities in proportion to 40% of the State and 60% of the municipalities. However, part of the concession fee provided for by the concessional act intended for the municipalities shall be distributed among the municipalities in the following way: 30% of the payment to the proportionally related share of the potential energy of the Drava river water body and 70% of the payment to the proportionally related share of the water well, dams and hydroelectric channels. In 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Regulation supplementing the Regulation on the concession for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity, in which it added Article 12.b: "Despite the provisions and criteria for determining the development of infrastructure and the environmental burden for the purpose of determining the payment to the municipality for the natural goods concession, for 2004 and 1 August, the total payment for the concession shall be allocated to the municipalities, with half the concession fee being distributed to the municipalities by dividing the proportion of the potential energy of the Drava River and half the concession payment by the proportion of the water goods, dams and hydropower plants on the river Drava. The municipalities are also paid an additional one-off compensation for limited use of space due to hydroelectric power plants on the Drava River in the municipality." The amount of this compensation for limited use of space was calculated at the time 367 million tolars, or a million and a good 500 thousand euros. The Government has charged the majority owner of the concessionaire Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants with compensation for the limited use of the space. The remuneration for the limited use of the hydroelectric power plant on the Drava River shall not be taken into account as the municipality’s own income in calculating the financial compensation for the State budget. This Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been followed by government regulations for 2005 and 2006, and has been complicated by the 2007 Regulation, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only on 4 January 2008 and which imposes on the majority owner the payment of this exceptional refund until 25 January 2008 for 2007. We do not know and we do not know for what reasons the then Director of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants launched an initiative to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the constitutionality and legality of this government act, since this act is based on the provisions of the Water Act and the Environmental Protection Act. However, I know that all local communities, or at least most of them, have already initiated lawsuits against the majority owner of the concessionaire, for which it becomes clearer from day to day, especially after the Constitutional Court has rejected the dispute on 15 January last year, in order to give the majority owner an additional payment cost, in addition to the main legal late interest. In addition, local communities are injured at least one annual compensation for 2008. They have been harmed for a single compensation in 2009, and I wonder for whom this initiative for the assessment of constitutionality and legality has been useful. We are also considering whether the then Director of Holding may have led to a decision to launch an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Government's act, including the fact that there was an agreement at that time to approve the loan granted to Zvon 1 Holding by Drava Power Plants at a later date of EUR 20 million. On our own, and all of us in the Group of Social Democrats, we will strive to get things back on track and to continue to establish the legal situation as it has been every year since 2003, with the adoption of the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, we will advocate that this Regulation should have not a one-year duration but a long-term character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	Your Honor, once again, welcome. In fact, the underlying reason for this debate and the question of the Member State relating to it is incomplete or, I would say, in very different arrangements for concessions resulting from the energy use of Slovenian watercourses. We know a number of practices or some arrangements, and it would probably be the dilemmas and also the issues related to these dilemmas, if we finally put on the same denominator all concessions arising from the energy use of watercourses. We have at least two cases, one that has been mentioned, this is the energy use of Drava, where the legal basis of the Water Act is, and as a result, there are some regulations here. The second is in the Sava, where we have the Energy Exploitation Act of the Lower Sava and where the concession tax comes from this law and is therefore the legal basis for the payment of concessions in another law than in the case of Drava. And it is precisely because of these different bases and because of this inequality that the implementation problems do not finally arise, and not least in paying these concession fees. If anything is fair, then it is fair that part of the concession fee is allocated to the communities in which the water source is used energy, especially because it interferes with the infrastructure of these municipalities, it affects other projects in these municipalities in one way or another, it even irritates them and, consequently, it is right for the municipality to receive a significant part. It is also right that congregations along the Drava River are likened to congregations along the Sochi River, with congregations along the Sava River, and so forth. But that is not the case today, and as I would say, the original sin is in it. Dear Minister, it would finally be time to put these appeals on the same denominator in our country. However, despite the fact that at least at the principle level we have the matter resolved, even from the Minister's reply and from the discussions of others, it is right to share the concession fee between the State and the municipalities, both in the case of one practice and in the case of another, but, of course, new and new questions are being asked. However, the new issues are that, despite the payment of concession fees, there is a lack of money for urgent investments in water infrastructure, including the construction of new energy facilities. So not only is it not that some municipalities have not received something that they are doing, and that it is now becoming a legal problem, but I think that there is an even greater problem for the future that, or that, some projects to build energy capacities will, as a result, generate these revenues both in state and municipal treasury, are at risk and stand. A typical example is the continuation of the construction of the lower-Savish chain. By mid-2009, the Ministry of Environment and Space had been tasked with preparing a financial structure for the construction of the water infrastructure in the construction of the downstream chain. To date, it is not clear what the Ministry should have done by the middle of the previous year. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is right that the water fund is not used to finance this water infrastructure to the extent that it has been used so far, because projects for the construction of water infrastructure for the purposes of flood protection are large in Slovenia. And, Minister, we thank the investment in water infrastructure in Sevnica and Krske for not having occurred in recent floods to great damage in this part of Slovenia. Anti-floating embankments, which were built at the construction of the Boštanj - Blanca hydropower plant, prevented flooding in Sevnica and in places in that part of Slovenia. It would probably be possible to conclude at this event how important it is to build a bottom-up chain and not least a dam, because in this part of Slovenia there is no increased rain and cause for floods. In fact, rain and running water came from Gorenjska and in some way in this part of Slovenia in the lower Sava stream crosses the hills due to the purely natural conditions that tanning this watercourse. I just want to say that investing in water infrastructure is not a matter of some regions, it is not a matter of some local decisions, but it is a matter of some comprehensive state policy that needs common nouns. This is why many proposals have already been made to the Ministry of the Environment to finance energy or water infrastructure for energy projects in the future. For this is a type of possibility, from the use of cohesion funds - that is, cohesion projects, which are financed from the European Union budget, can be devoted to such projects. Finally, energy itself can finance these projects, but provided that the country is not burdened by concessions in the coming periods, because energy has given money to regulate water, not energy infrastructure. It may also be a solution to the amendment of the law on financing the construction of the downstream chain and the delimitation of what water infrastructure is and what energy infrastructure is. The solution is quite something, they offer. For God's sake, let's find them and continue with these projects, but not, in fact, to deal with delays and freezes of certain investments due to inoperability. At a time of conjuction or rather go to the present: at a time of recession, investing in the construction of these infrastructure facilities is more than welcome not only to solve the problem in a watery sense, but also to employ a construction operation. Look what happened. At the end of the previous year, an invitation to build an accumulator pool at the Krško hydroelectric power plant was cancelled, by the way, the energy part is being accelerated. However, the call for the construction of a communication pool was cancelled because the financial structure was simply not closed. The financial structure was not closed because the Ministry of the Environment did not implement the Government's decision to complete this financial structure by the middle of the previous year. An invitation to tender has been revoked, no one has been given a job and no work done, which means again bad for operators and to solve this problem. I am pleased that Member Vila Trofenik is a principle of this subject and that we can also discuss it in Parliament, but the problem is significantly broader than mentioned. The problem is not just whether there will be a legal basis for some congregations to receive the money they are receiving. The problem is wider. First, it is necessary, in a comprehensive and uniform manner, to regulate the basis for the payment of concessions, to very clearly distinguish, and to reason on what is state-owned and what is the local part and what are the obligations of the State and what are the obligations of the local communities due to the money received and also to identify what is the source of future investments in water infrastructure by energy companies. In fact, the worst thing is to wait and freeze some of the ongoing projects. And by the way, every month of the failure of the power plant, let's say, in this case, the Krško hydro power plant, because there is no swimming pool and other hydro power plants, means the loss of about half a million euros, as far as the energy effects are concerned, so that the Sava will rot past the turbines when it can go through them. So, even as a result of this delay, potentially damage can occur. If the purpose of this debate in Parliament is to encourage those responsible for the ILO - in fact, I am disappointed because I see that the Minister has left the Chamber in this debate - that is, if this debate will at least encourage those responsible in the ministry to deal with these problems, then the aim will be achieved and will be, I hope, that the resolution of these issues will also be closer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, I will try to stick to the subject or to the agenda. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I must express my satisfaction that the knowledge that the topic is serious has prevailed and that it is appropriate to address it in the National Assembly, because it has not always been so. If there was such a belief and position, we would not even be talking about it today because we would have spoken before a bad year or would have received an answer to a written question from the 18 August or the first debate in the National Assembly if subordinates in the Ministry and in the services responsible for it had prepared a correct answer to the Minister. I am pleased by the recognition or mutual recognition that the problem is open, that 16 municipalities have not received what they deserve, and, of course, that the Minister promises that, at least I hope, as soon as possible to remedy this situation and that the affected municipalities will receive the corresponding funds with all the consequences that follow, it is also said, the corresponding interest. And of course, there will also be an answer to how any government - that we are on a clear, unblameable former government or the current government - how can it happen to a government to publish its regulation over a "sraro" year when this has substantive problems, because such a regulation cannot retrogradely apply. This opens up a whole bunch of parallel questions that I think will have to be solved, both the one that I have pointed out last, as a question of the right attitude of subordinates towards any minister who prepares answers to our questions, because the point is that we get quality and correct answers. We expect the problem to be resolved, and I am so pleased with the unified opinion of all the parliamentary groups that this issue must be addressed in a broader way. And I deeply agree with some of the opinions expressed here, but I will not violate the Rules of Procedure, because this must not be any issue or debated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm glad to have two hours of twenty-five minutes and fourteen, thirteen, twelve, eleven seconds. I think we will have plenty of time to have a thorough debate and also to find responsibilities. Mr Visjak, I even think you'll wish I wasn't here today in this debate. You made a special wish when you were talking about where the minister was, I must say that I was in the next room, and I listened to exactly what you were saying. And believe that today you will regret that I am in this hall, because we have enough time. Mr. Friend asked me who did it. It is clear from the discussions of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, there are some officials at the Ministry, everything is bribed, why we do not start some criminal proceedings and so on. I assure you, as Minister of the Environment, that today I will press charges against whoever is responsible for this situation and I will analyse very carefully what is the basis for this complaint so that journalists, the media know that they will not be misled again and so on. It has been said that there are two regulations; one regulation relates to electricity refunds, here I have precise data and you all agree. Payments have been made since 2003 and to state 23. 11. 2009 was paid to the municipalities under this heading of EUR 100 eight million. Thus this matter is clean, the congregations have done so, I hope that they have invested it for flood security, which is critical, we could see in December, the Bohinj Congregation, in Styria we saw what happened and so on. Then it's another matter of a one-off concession fee. Sixteen congregations are expected to receive a million and a half euros. I'm not going to let myself down in the way it's shared. The legal problem we have, however, is that the regulation was not published in 2007, and this is a regulation that has provided the basis for all these payments. And probably because this regulation has not been published, it is not the fault of an official, since we often like to refer to officials in this Chamber. I think that when the President of the Government spoke about new legal standards in the responsibility of the Minister, I accept them. I'm just going to make these decisions that await me or that await you, Members. I hope you are the right representatives of the people, that you will indeed vote in conscience; this is what I wish you. But you know, we're going to introduce some new legal standards. Legal standards for the responsibilities of ministers who are no longer ministers. Because in our country, there is too much "disruptment" that when these mandates are completed, except for criminal offences, there is no responsibility. He doesn't matter anymore. He's been shot. He's gone. When the Minister completes his term of office and does not repeat it. It's harmless to this environment. It's irrelevant. But in this matter, they'll say again that I'm Kalimera, that I don't take responsibility. See, it is probably clear to every Slovenian, every Member, every reasonable person that I cannot be held responsible that the Regulation, which should be published in 2007, has been published in 2008. And who was the minister at the time?Oh, my God! And who bears the responsibility that the congregations have not received this million and a half?Oh, my God! And risk our lives with that?Oh, my God! Did you see what happened in December?Oh, my God! Did the current minister take responsibility or some officials?Oh, my God! Because the easiest thing to do is hide behind some general names: officials, officials are guilty! That's the easiest thing to say! I am not saying that all officials are good, because you see, for example, in my case, where official Marjana Mali does not know the law and all Slovenia is convinced that I have illegally sold some capital shares. Of course, with a strong team of foreign lawyers, I will prove that this is not the case, and I hope that the lady will also take responsibility for these statements. We also have one in the office. But as for this regulation for 2008 and 2007, it was published in 2008, with a specific purpose, in order not to get this money to the congregation, so as not to worry about flood safety. Who was the minister in 2007 and 2008, until November - do I not know when I was appointed?Oh, my God! I'm on the show in November 2008. That was Mr. - Who? John Squirrel! And since you claim responsibility, I will press charges against Mr. Janez Sponik as responsible minister. Why was there not a regulation to be published in 2007 that would provide the blood money needed - one million and a half to improve legal certainty? Why this money, I don't know Friend Member, I hope it speaks responsibly, is that money "good" in Bell. I don't know. I don't judge anyone. That's the impression I had when I heard the debate. I hope this is not the money lost in Croatia. And I would also ask myself, Mr Vizjak, who was responsible as Minister of Economy at the time, for electricity, for electricity. I think that's actually going to happen, that you're sorry that you asked me to be here - and where the minister is. You may be confused, but I said that today or in the coming days, an indictment will be filed against former Minister John Sponik, who has mispublished the regulation and will be very interesting in his defense. Will he be willing to take full responsibility for this action? Is he really as clumsy as Karl Erjavec who can't separate municipal waste? Clearly, however, he could not see to it that he published the regulation in time. But this may have something to say or maybe what Member Friend says has something to do with it. But look, I'm just a minister, and I'm gonna do this function until the discharge comes to the National Assembly. Then you will have the opportunity to ask yourself on the basis of your conscience or the separation of municipal waste, and what the Court of Auditors makes clear is, indeed, such a problem. I, too, from this city, if the Court of Auditors can call on the President of the Government to my resolution, I call on the Court of Auditors to review this case because this case is extremely interesting. Why didn’t these millions receive half of the euro in the congregation? And why did Ambassador Ribič assure me that every session of the National Assembly would ask me what we would do for greater flood safety? However, his former minister did not have the time or knowledge to ensure that the regulation was published in time. Or might he have done so because of some other pressure? Well, look, I'm not gonna worry about it. I have nothing to worry about. I hope you understand that I have nothing to do with this issue in 2007, 2008. However, it is probably clear to you that, at this point in time as the current Minister of the Environment, when you call on me all to resolve this problem, it is necessary to establish the responsibility that I am obliged to file this complaint against the former Minister of the Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, who, while we are very good friends, but you know, the rule of law applies to everyone and equality before the law applies to everyone, both to current ministers and to former ministers. I hope in the independence of the police, the prosecution, that such absurdities will not occur, for example, that the special prosecutor's group dealing with organised crime - you know what it is, corruption, bribery, terrorism - has done the biggest unscrupulous work of the minister. If this practice continues, then I am worried about this indictment, which I will make against former Minister of Environment and Space Janez Podobnik, and he can continue to sleep peacefully because nothing will happen to him in this country, because the judicial institutions obviously do not work effectively, but he may be convicted of a job jobless job, perhaps, I don't know, it will be a special prosecutor's group for organised crime, which is the flower of our prosecutor's office, which is also what she said in this case. I hope, on my own, that all these institutions will also be asked for responsibility; from the top of the prosecution, whether this is normal. From the Court of Auditors, if I don't go over this case. I think there's a lot of responsibility to be asked. But here the current Minister for Environment and Space is not that key person. But the key is whether this state of law will come to life, whether everyone will be responsible for their actions, from the prosecution, from the Public Prosecutor's Office, even the former ministers that we forget. Why does every affair remain unresolved? Because politics is satisfied with this, because it is no longer among us, we got rid of it nicely. Member of Parliament, Vizjak, I am confident of your innocence, for in this country there is an presumption of innocence. [[The ad in the hall.]] I am nothing to you, but it will be very interesting what the Minister for Environment and Space will say in the coming days. Many questions are likely to need to be answered. That's what I'd like to say. Now there will be a plaza of attacks on the minister, what he has allowed, what he has dared, first probably on the side of the SLS Group, then on your side, Mr Vizjak. Because you wanted me here, let's talk openly and openly. However, look, I will no longer respond to this debate. I said: former Minister Janez Podobnik will be present because it is likely that it is known who is responsible that this regulation has not been published. The budget was probably damaged, but even more so were the municipal budgets, and even more so were people affected because of the money they did not receive. But this responsibility will be determined by the competent judicial authorities. And I'm going to say in advance, I'm not going to argue with you, but let the institutions roll up their sleeves, take a look, and we'll see how powerful our country is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you. Well, first, I'd like to warn you that we're sticking to the agenda. It is not the Minister's intervention on the programme, nor his discharge or anything like that, but his answer to the question raised by the Member, Mr Trofenik. But I've seen the hands. Mr. Vizjak, did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	Look, I understand that the respected minister is in specific circumstances and that he started shooting all around himself in some self-defense, I would say, so, uncontrolled, and among these I found myself. In fact, he said I'd be sorry to have him sit with us. On the contrary, I am pleased that a debate is being held in Parliament, but on the subject that is being discussed, and this is the answer to the question put by my colleague Trofenika. This is not an intervention against Minister Karl Erjavac here today, although Mr Minister understands it so clearly. He probably understands that because he's in the middle of certain events that I have nothing to do with, at least I think, and I hope not. And I also agree with you, Minister-in-Charge, that the key responsibility of key political actors, including ministers, throughout the whole period is not only through the mandate they are covering. And personally, I will take over and always assume all the responsibilities that fly by me. And especially by the ruling coalition, there is little talk about certain things that are not regulated, that we warn the opposition that they should be regulated, that they are always citing and returning, yes, because you had four years of authority and why you did not arrange it. If this were to be done in one mandate, or in two mandates, or even in three mandates, to resolve all problems forward and backward, then perhaps one government would need three mandates and an end and a dot and the matter would be resolved! No! No! Things are going on, things are going on, and in the end it is crucial and right for Parliament to point out that some issues are not resolved. In my own debate, I have also warned that I am looking forward to resolving some of the issues that need to be addressed. I didn't take responsibility with a single word of it. I missed the Minister's presence mainly because I think he's right, and if the Minister was in the government's room, then I know that there's a transfer and that the meeting is being directly monitored, I'm glad he heard that. I expected these concessions to be arranged for the energy exploitation of Slovenian waters in a uniform way, everywhere in Slovenia equally, because we now have different legal bases for this. And so on. I don't know why the Honourable Minister experienced an attack on him in my debate. If that's what he understood - well, right - and I'm gonna be sorry that he's here between us - which is not even true. I'd expect the minister to solve the accumulated problems he's facing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	Mr. Vizjak. time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	the environment is not so small [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	for replica [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	- I'll be right away - and get a little less personal or special. I think it's crucial to solve problems. It is also right to seek responsibility for back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you. Procedural proposal, Mr. Kres? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think that, at this time, there is no former minister in this Chamber, and not another minister in front of the former minister, and it seems very unfair to me that you have allowed so much discussion about former ministers or the former minister as Mr Erjavec has allowed. We will also address this issue in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you. Although this was not a procedural proposal, I am taking note and I ask that we do not discuss or even condemn people who are not here and who cannot defend themselves. Mr Trofenik spoke as a proposal for a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be very brief, I'm going to try to stick to the strict point on the agenda, but there's only something that needs to be said to avoid some of the customs and customs that are between us. It is too often understood to ask questions to the Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government as an attempt to attack, especially if it is a critical issue or if the issue points to a pressing problem and it is put by someone from the coalition, as we are used to looking at from this point of view, to our own minister. Since March of last year, I have received all the comments and observations that I have been prevented from asking a question on the ground that it is a matter of local importance that is unworthy of hearing in the National Assembly. Then I had no choice but to write. I didn't get an answer to the letter. However, the question raised is now in the second. And when we voted in one session with the majority in the co-operation of the coalition and the opposition's work to discuss three answers, not to dictate to individual responsible ministers, it happened by chance with Minister Erjavac, but to discuss serious issues concerning one side of Drava's energy use concerning the use of funds collected deliberately in water or water storage, as it is said, and to discuss the serious problems caused in practice and in everyday life by the implementation of Nature 2000. I'm glad I didn't understand another session back and it was like I had some visions of this problem. Now it is clear and loud, because apparently colleagues and colleagues have informed themselves that the problem is serious, that it is open to asking a lot of questions. I myself have deliberately avoided the personal responsibility and similar questions, which are logical and necessary, so as not to bring the debate into what, I will say, my own too much political water. I am pleased that the minister has detected this problem. I helped myself last time with certain material, but the problem raises the question of responsibility for the late publication of the regulation. You know, it's just not supposed to happen in one regulated country. All that's more than that, I'll hold off for now. That is why, of course, I agree with those - I think the minister said this - that it would be interesting if the Court of Auditors were to have fun, but not only with the concessionaire, why he did not pay, but with the final accounts of the 16 municipalities, which I firmly believe are unworthy. According to my available information, only some municipalities are suing in court, for some there have been mediations, so to speak, the judiciary has recognized that it is a serious problem, but it is not Trofen's problem, as some have tried and that I am tearing down the minister's coalition and that I want to destroy the coalition from within and I don't know what kind of marking I've been getting, I'm joking a little, but I'm serious. The closing accounts to the 16 congregations, I'm sure they're unworthy. Sixteen congregations, including the Municipality of Maribor as a large municipality, are not some of them, as fishermen call the "subversive" municipalities, that no one will misinterpret me. From this point of view, it would be interesting to look at this, even from this point of view in the rule of law, the final accounts cannot be impregnable. That I am specific, I doubt that any municipality - regardless of whether it is suing, even those who are suing - is misled in inventory as a claim on the title x, which should pay for it. And if it wasn't, the final bill would be, in a kind word, unworthy. I am pleased and would not like this to go into some quasi-interpellation now, because this was not the intention, but every current minister is faced with an up-to-date problem, which has its origin in the past, and I am pleased that my colleague Viszak's willingness in particular is to resolve this issue in a single way. I do not agree with him only in the part that any unequal solution to this issue of energy concessions can be an excuse for the late publication or the inadequate publication of the regulation. This has nothing to do with it. If we have different systems on three rivers, only three more important rivers are used, it is unacceptable. That they're in a different situation is unacceptable. I think that only energy in terms of water use, that is to say hydroelectric and related taxes both to the State and to the local communities, which is logical, should be balanced first on some legal uniform basis, it is probably not to be equal in the absolute amount that no one will think, but it is to be equal to the base or base for all energy-related taxes, whether it be a thermal power plant, whether it be a gas power plant, to be a nuclear power plant. It's a mix of systems and it's two kinds of benefits, and once it comes to the degradation of space, which is probably the worst in a nuclear power plant -- I'm going to allow myself a little bit of a judgment -- a smaller one in a thermal power plant, but also a different one in a hydropower plant. Because one is, if it is a power plant, another is that it is a canal power plant which we have in Slovenia but only two have destroyed an important part of the northeast part of Slovenia, with all the consequences that the groundwater has dropped by five meters and the soil has to be irrigated because it is not possible to exploit them in the normal age. Therefore, if, in the next steps, we come to the expense of this debate and to quality solutions in this area, of course, this issue will also achieve its purpose after this wage. So much for now. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Franz Jursha. [[Here you go. You're giving up.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Branko Marinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. On the content itself, I believe that we have just opened up important things that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the key Ministry will have to give some answers to the National Assembly. Otherwise, it seems to me that we have opened a new chapter to deal with the content of this question. A new chapter in the sense that Members and Members are not given adequate answers after four months. And that's the thing that can take care of anything between us. My question in this case is whether or not it makes sense to ask the next question, and if the topic is not yet how interesting and requires genuine, sincere answers. Here today and all the time when we look at the contents of this question and the answer asked by the question - a broader dimension, but it is money to ensure the general safety of the people living there. This is something completely different from the many other things that are opening up in this regard. Imagine that at a time when we are talking about these key climate changes that have catastrophic consequences, and that this is the dedicated money that provides anti-flood security. And that someone can abandon the payment of this money, which the municipalities deliberately use for flood security, which guarantees the lives and security of people. This is the highest category of responsibility of the authorities, and in this regard we also accept responsibility from Members and Members. We insisted, have we taken advantage of our institution of the question of the mission, or have we taken advantage of the institution of the answer?Oh, my God! But the question is as valuable as the answer. And if we have an institute of parliamentary questions, we also have an answer. And if that is not the answer, there is probably another stage, the next stage, which is the Member and Members, we must serve. After all, I reiterate, it is about providing the money that guarantees the lives of the people who live there. I come directly from this area and I know what that means. You need to know that one of the largest artificial lakes on the Drava Ptujsko jezero River, some even call it the Slovenian Sea, because water sports and coastal activities have also begun to develop, and let us forget or forget to provide money for flood security. Do you have any idea what kind of disaster this anger can bring down? And that's because there wasn't enough money to make a quality recovery of this ripple that ensures that there's no spillage of that water. I reiterate that in climate change, which is catastrophic, we can expect 100-year-old waters to reach and that this artificial lake will yield. And that's because someone didn't do their homework. Members and Members, too, were aware of this, we asked a question, but we did not get an answer, and yet we did not take the next step to get the money to the congregations and to ensure the safety of these quarries, which make it impossible to spill water. This is an essential and fundamental issue. Of course, it is also irrelevant what can happen in all this - to various speculations. Someone must have some other interest, the question is where he went or where that money went. But for us as Members it is not as important as it is important that money, which is strictly dedicated, must be provided to ensure the safety of the lives of our people, whose representatives have our citizens and citizens in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This must concern us, and I expect that there will indeed be rapid action here in terms of ensuring the security of the people for whom we must also take the indirect responsibility of Members and Members. I am sure that this answer and this error that has been made is being addressed quickly and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Miran Györek. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Today we are discussing a concession for water use and the payment of concessions. Indeed, these resources are determined by the State’s scale in fact for the management of the beaches and the actual land on the water which is hydroelectric. It is true that the Drava River actually ranges from Dravograd to Ormož and that 19 congregations are actually thronged along this river Drava. All these municipalities have the right to receive a concession euro to regulate the beaches, to regulate living conditions along the Drava River. Also all others, other congregations along the Sava River and so on. I cannot understand, therefore, that in fact some congregations did not receive these funds, or why they were deliberately released, or where that money went. Normally, the minister himself will answer these questions, for he certainly knows where and for what use these funds have gone. But it is right that these people, especially in the Koroška work as well as in the Podravska work, have a balanced life on this river, as well as all other citizens in Slovenia. Not that at last year’s floods they are thinking about how water will take their houses away and so on, or break down their dams because the congregations did not receive money for the arrangement, for the modernisation of the hills along that river. It is right that money is invested in the restoration of these things, as the waters that come along such great storms and torrents can be drained and held, if necessary, for the safety of the people living along these rivers. It is therefore appropriate for the State to provide the funds provided by the concession to these municipalities for their actual management. Who's to blame, who's not to blame, is, I don't think, to talk. Surely, anyone who takes over a job for someone must carefully review what the predecessor did or what the predecessor did not do. I think it's been a long time since we've seen these people hit by a disaster, and they have the right to croak, not me here. We are the ones who must heed the warnings of these people who have chosen us, who have entrusted us with the voice that we are actually alerting the Government to the realization of the key things and of this concession euro in order to regulate all of this. I hope that these things will also be settled backwards and that in this legal country the time limit will reach in such a way that all these congregations will receive interest on these funds so that people can live peacefully on certain rivers on which hydroelectrics are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman. [[He's not here.]] Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Bogovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you. The question of dispatch is usually asked to draw attention to a problem, trying to find solutions. And the problem that has already been raised in November, which we are dealing with today, relates mainly to the payment of concessions and the fair repayment of concessions on a particular river where, according to a certain principle, the matter is being paid. Surely we all expected and know that, on such a question of the Member States, there is also an opportunity for the problem to become more enlightened and that it is also an attempt to talk about the subject, which is why the subject and the debate are taking place today. I think it is right to speak on the one hand about the energy efficiency of this river, on the other hand, about the ratios of all those involved in such relations, whether it is a country as a concessionary, energy companies as concessionaries, or, on the other hand, the energy companies of the municipality where these energy facilities are located, and certainly also one of the most important topics, if the most important ones related to the exploitation of the energy potential of rivers are also flood protection, which is often to be used and built at the same time as energy facilities. As far as the basic question is concerned, the issue of awarding concessions, I think the topic is open, that it is right to find the reasons for this unequal treatment of the municipalities, that the reasons, questions be resolved and that things should be resolved as they must be, that the relations between the municipalities are correct and appropriate. I think that this is the most important topic of flood protection and that it is the right thing to talk about and to make sure that on those projects where such flood protection can be built, we can also make sure that things are going smoothly and that in the future we will all sleep better together - those who are there by the rivers or those who are responsible for the functions may talk about the predecessors; that good manners in Slovenia will always wash the dirty laundry and the successors will talk again about some objective or subjective responsibilities of their predecessors. In our case, in the environment from which I come, the Posavina space, we are currently receiving that our expectations are that much more could be done in regulating this watercourse faster, whether it is the adoption of any other State Spatial Plan. In particular, I have in mind a hydroelectric Brežice and a hydroelectric Mokrice on the Sava River. It would also be very good to sign contracts for the construction of embankments at the Krško hydropower plant, because we will be able to reach such a paradoxical situation that the energy part of the facility is said to be an indigestion building, a machine room built, and that due to the inoperability of state officials and officials in charge of providing funds, there will be a delay in the construction of dams, which means flood exposure on the one hand, and, on the other hand, with each month of potential delay, there will also be direct damage, since the production of one such power plant is not even half a million euros per month and hence so much concession, so much money for flood protection. I think it would be right, as I have already said, to draw these lessons from such a debate, to clarify for the past that we are expedient today! And if I'm a little critical on these objects and on these sites, which I mentioned earlier, it would be possible to debate. And on the exediency of those who bear these responsibilities in the last year, but today this is not meant to do so, and I will not pay any further attention to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is certainly incorrect and illegal to disregard the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay concession fees for the energy exploitation of the Drava River. It is noted that taxes were not paid to individual congregations, and as we can see, this was not a responsible concern, since they made sure that the money went where it did not belong. Of course, I am also interested in 2009 in how these payments have been made to congregations that have so far been deprived of money belonging to them under all the rules. It's definitely objects we shouldn't miss on the Drava River. It is about eight energy facilities, on the basis of which individual municipalities have a legal right to funds. It's inappropriate to justify things back with things that don't drink water. Surely there is a need to explain the responsibility for things that have consequences today and will also be felt tomorrow. This is important, for because of money that has not been paid to the congregations, many flood - threatened areas are at risk today. It is necessary to follow the improvement in the situation in the area of payments, as provided for in the Regulation, but it is not possible to correct matters in return, but only to facilitate further. It is therefore right to correct the error in the interests of the local communities which have listened to the excuses of the story of non-payments from ministries which are no longer current, but responsibility for the return is always possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri, he's not here. Janez Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I must say that I respect the current Minister for Environment and Space. However, I cannot believe that whenever we ask questions about the problems at the Ministry of Environment and Space, whether it is a chimney problem, or spatial planning, or water management, maintenance and treatment of watercourses, control over these parts, etc.It's always someone's fault from before. I think that in a year and more of the ministry's leadership, there's only one thing to do and put it in order. And yes, the professional services in the ministries are supposed to be in no position to answer anything, I think that most of the affairs in the ministries are run by professional services, and they also have to answer, because the ministers are set up politically. I am sure that experts are not exactly in all areas, so I would like them to start acting responsibly. Doing people who aren't here and they can't defend themselves, but I think they're below the level. It's better to talk, and I wonder how far we are with flood safety on the left bank of the Drava River, counter-water embankments, clearing Drava tributaries, controlling these parts by those who do it. I think it's a topic for conversation in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. As I felt at the beginning of this point that it was actually inappropriate or unnecessary for this debate to take place in the National Assembly, the more I am convinced now that the debate started under this issue, because we were not finally able to hear a story about this issue, these problems, and perhaps a little more about who is responsible for the failure of concession contracts to come true as they were written. A concession regulation has been written, formulas have been written, a legal basis has been given to account for the concession to be paid to local communities gravitating to this river in this case. With this money, it is meant to help these congregations to protect themselves with flood protection, thus protecting the population and their possessions in this area. Last but not least, some contribution, some money for a degraded area, which just happens when the exploitation of a river is present. It is incomprehensible that this concession contract or that it did not begin to be implemented when it was drawn up when this legal basis was given to pay for it. When it comes to discussing these problems, I cannot help but see that Koroška is affected in five congregations in this way. Five municipalities, namely, Dravograd, Muta, Vuzenica, Radlje ob Drava, Podvlekka are those who do not receive concessions. And if we look further at that Koroška is one of the less developed regions where it creaks and cracks across all the seams, then it seems to us that this lack of money or this financial gap is still a great, much greater burden to solve these most fundamental issues, which also concern the population, and which also concern the placement of the energy river in their space. I am confident that this debate will help to accelerate the development of positive developments in the ministry, to find solutions and that in this way we will carry out all the necessary corrections that are now a gap in the legal system, to pay for what is going on for all local communities, and that such a system will then continue to be satisfactory for all the people gravitating to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you. The word has Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, the fact is that it's a mess that the money hasn't been paid, and I'm glad that Mr. Minister said he'd file a criminal complaint against those who didn't comply with what they were put in a ministerial position. It is high time that something is done in this area and that even one of the culprits is then "stitched" not that much will be said but that there will be nothing altogether, as is customary for us. I think it may still be that Mr Minister still throws out a piece of crap from his ministry and then lets him at home figure out what he did wrong and why he did it wrong. I think it would make sense to blow up a lot in this ministry, but the fact is, we don't have much power here. Today's debate will end without a decision, as the Rules of Procedure do not allow for any binding decision to be taken and one debate will go to nothing again. This certainly does not mean that the debate is not important; it is very important. However, I think, as my colleague Friend has suggested, it would make sense for the Rules of Procedure to be changed in order to adopt binding decisions here at such meetings. Otherwise, the water problem in Slovenia is in fact not processed. There's nothing to know, he's working with his left hand, it's best to push everyone else, so we've already pushed the formation that's taking care of the Sava pool into the hands of the Croats so that we don't have too much trouble here, or maybe someone got some money in my pocket. We don't even know how to agree and even do what they thought in the 1960s, as some say, that communist leaders would do in hydropower at the Sava River to cross barriers to the flow of ships and the like. In short, what they already had in Valvasor’s time, today’s great experts are unable to restore and relitaviate. In short, more debates, but that the end would also be eloquent with some conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, who is listening somewhere else! Look, I don't know why every time questions come, we take it so negative. However, the question is therefore raised to draw attention to the problem, so that we can also deal with the problem or try to solve it for the satisfaction of the local community, in this case. Once again, people who come from the field know this problem well, they can represent it well, and they can ask really good questions. This is also one of those topics that we have discussed before that we should not be saints, parishioners, mayors of the National Assembly. Who knows this problem more than those people who deal with it in the field? Dear Mr. Secretary! I don't consider it an honor to talk about previous ministers now. I was put in a position myself when I took over the institution when the matter had to be resolved, but it was very misguided at the time before me, and I did not go deeper into those people, but into the problem. I have to say, I've faced the problem, not the one who did something wrong. From what was wrong, however, I learned how to act, not to repeat this mistake, and that the matter is being handled as it should be. We expect absolutely nothing from this Minister but that it is also appropriate to take action and that it is working accordingly. These problems with concession fees are certainly problems that need to be discussed, for the local community needs much to be resolved by means of means. And that's it. Now to find fault with Mr Janez Podobnik, if I consider the mandate back possible, with Mr Kopač, is totally out of touch. I would suggest to the Minister that he first look at the situation he is in. And one more thing I would like to say is that the problems that are currently taking place, and also the situation in which you are, are certainly not the result of the work of former ministers, but of the current governance structure. So I would appeal that we focus primarily on the problems of talking about people when they are here, and, of course, if you have assessed that the case should be brought before the judicial authorities, it should be initiated. And most likely not only this, but we could just put people in line to deal with it. But once again, I stress: this is not a productive matter, not a debate in Parliament at all. If these things are done, they can be done, applications can be made. Here and now, we need to solve these problems that we are facing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Milan Chaddez, he's not here. Tadej Slapnik - he's gone. Vito Rojej - he's gone. Mr. Lucky Friend, can I help you? No, no, no. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Joko Godec, he's not here. Mr. Zerjav, would you like? No, no, no. Does Mr. Secretary want a word with you? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I must say that we will try to correct this mistake, to find some legal solution to how to provide this money back for the municipalities that actually need these funds for greater flood security. However, this is a very difficult legal issue, since the 2008 Regulation cannot be the basis for payment, it should be adopted in 2007. I guarantee that with the best of lawyers, we may also examine with the institute how to find the legal basis for these funds to be received by the congregations. Why didn't he pay these payments in 2009? That was the question. It's not a legal basis! In this regard, the problem is that in 2008 the municipalities did not receive a million EUR 500, they will not receive it in 2009, unless for so long I am Minister to prepare this regulation with the help of top legal experts. In any way, as Minister, I am responsible to determine who might be responsible. As you yourself have said, I am obliged to act, but I will press charges to let the independent judiciary determine that this has nothing to do with politics or anything. This is a professional error, at least I hope, but if any other authorities find out more, and so much more, we will at least strengthen the rule of law. This is my assurance: until I am resolved, I will work in this direction. However, I am sure that my successor will also resolve this matter with such eagerness, so that the congregations will receive this money and so that we can protect the security, property and life of the citizens. You know, this is a question of who would be responsible if, in December, floods were flooding that were very serious if someone died. Who would be responsible for that?Oh, my God! I therefore regret that some say that Parliament is not the right place for such a debate. You'd rather talk about technical matters when things get too awkward. Thank God there was no victim. But I think Parliament is the right place. We'll meet again. We'll talk more about the minister's responsibility. I look forward to this debate because I know that Members and Members of the National Assembly enjoy the full confidence of our citizens, for which you have been elected. You're also morally upright, I'm sure you wouldn't be elected, and I'm sure you'll vote in your conscience. I therefore think that this introduction to this debate of a new policy - a new policy - I apologize to Mr Trofenik, who is a member of Zares, and this is by chance their password. But last night in Dražgoša, I said "crazy politics." Because this crazy policy can also lead to Dražgoša. But I hope it doesn't. I don't want to be dramatic because they're going to say that I'm using my verbal skills again, my performance -- but OK, but I've read something nice, that I'm a new metal policy. And I hope that you Members and Members of the New Cove will work for the well-being of the people to find this money, to find the legal basis and to ensure flood safety. But why would people have, I don't know, wet basements, damage to the facade, and then the rescue and protection board has to rescue the firefighters. You know how much we've done for them, how much they have to work voluntarily, save this property, and then the municipal commissions estimate this damage. This is all because of insufficient flood safety, because in 2008 we did not provide a million and a half, and in 2009, I do not know if we will succeed - if it is a legal basis - but I believe in our legal profession, they will already find a solution. After the municipal commissions make this assessment, it comes to the Ministry of Environment and Space and we make a program and then, on the basis of this programme, we repair these floods. That is why I think this debate has been very welcome today. You know, in the introduction, I told the Zares MP who are advocating a new policy, and I also understood in this spirit the question sent to me, that I believe in his sincerity, that he asked the question, because he is concerned about the safety of people, he is concerned about what our flood security is going to be, and so on. I haven't seen any bad intentions or that he's tearing me down. It's the least important thing! However, it is important that we find out certain things today. I also respect the principle of presumption of innocence, but I must say, see if the regulation was published in 2007 and therefore we do not have the legal basis for paying these funds to the municipalities - who is responsible? Who? A referee, who? Or the President of the Government at the time, because he was signed under that regulation in 2008. You know, this thing isn't that simple. I wouldn't want President Janez Janš to end up guilty. And they will say how the regulation was not published in 2007 and why the congregation did not receive this money for one important problem in this country when it comes to the lives and property of people. What if a child drowned there? Are you aware of your responsibility? And I believe he can't be president of the then government for this blood! However, I believe that if the Minister were careful, he could verify whether the regulation under consideration at the Government 2007 could have been published in 2007? But, look, let the competent authorities find out. I'm not gonna deal with this. But I am glad that we are going to new legal standards because I think this country needs them. So I think that this debate has been very good, and I am grateful to Mr Zares, Mr Trofenic, for I am sure that he did not raise this issue just like that, not to be a teaser to me. He told himself what his problems were. Before he asked that question, he wanted to resolve that question elsewhere. And we can go look at the chronology, and he probably won't repeat it. What a coincidence - everything fits nicely. The pace was real, too. I think today is the right time to discuss these issues. I am grateful to you, Mr. Trofenik. I think this is the time for such a debate that we have not had the best. And I also have to be grateful to Slovenian footballers because they seem to be saving my skin. And that might sound too much "so." But do you know why this meeting was suspended, and why we did not address all the questions? Because the football game was Slovenia-Russia. We broke up and moved on today. As Slovenian footballers were lucky and won 1:0 and go to the World Cup, I too have had some strange luck having this debate today. Since this debate would then not be as topical as it was at the moment that the President of the Government announced last week, we had a press conference together where he said he would propose a solution. And the reason is to set new standards of responsibility. I think that the introduction to 2010 will be excellent, including for the National Assembly, to look at in addition to the economic, financial crisis, what we can do, we will also talk about the moral crisis that eats up this country. Mr Trofenik, if you are a member of Zareza, I see that you are advocating a new policy; I am sure that there will be some changes in 2010 so that a new wind will take place in Slovenia. If we are to overcome this moral crisis in the coming months, believe that we will also be economically, financially. Look, we Slovenians are a nation of winners! If you look at the sport that is the cruelest, where the game is really "hard". See, first cities: Majičeva, then my fellow, Kranjc Kranjčan. I also welcome for the first time Mr Potočnik, who occupied this city. I think you're proud of him, that we'll have a nice reception, even though I'm in a neighboring congregation, but I mean, we Slovenians are good. [[...]] In order to be even better, it will be necessary to ask ourselves in this room what the moral values are. That's what's gonna keep us going. But if the moral values are other, partial interests, when someone can eliminate certain people themselves - I will not say who they are, because that is not the point of this debate. I'm, like, told I'm too strong, so you don't have to eliminate what happens to small people if you take offense. You don't stand a chance of defending yourself. If we did an analysis of alcoholism, we'd find that a lot of people drink and drink. But I don't want to link this to the property we have that we're suicides. Usually, when you lose all hope, when you see that some moral values don't stand, we're Slovenians, we're male parts, we're going to the bar and we're drinking, and then we're the most important ones in that room. But we can't do that. That is why I look forward to all these discussions in the coming weeks, and I think this will be very useful for us, for Members, for us, ministers, and also for former ministers. They cannot be inviolable as to what they have done in their mandate and what their responsibility is. I'm surprised the President of the Court of Auditors only sees three months of my responsibility, but he doesn't see the responsibility of someone else for four years. Is it enough that you no longer serve and no longer have any responsibility? Look, everyone's got to do their job responsible, even with the knowledge that he'll never do this job again, but he's responsible for everything he's done in those four years. Member, Mr Trophynik, I sincerely thank you for this question. I think someone upstairs made sure the pace was right. Also, I find that I thank Slovenian footballers that we stopped the meeting at the time and that today we had a really great debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Very short. Finally, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the debate and the Minister's replies, it is indisputable that the question was in place. I note this satisfaction because there was no such majority opinion when asking the question. Another time. That the Minister on behalf of the Government has promised the realization or correction of this error, or whatever we call it, or "kiksa", forgive the term which should not have happened, regardless of the legal and other complications that I am sure will follow. Third. On the basis of the debate, it was possible to establish a high degree of agreement. I hope that it will also remain in the decision-making process, with the necessary changes to the legislation. However, since the Rules of Procedure are as it is, and allows us to prepare and adopt a relevant decision directly, which should follow such a debate, I promise that, in the framework of the current Rules of Procedure or what the Rules of Procedure permit, we will find and draw up an appropriate decision which would in some way oblige the Government and the competent Ministry to make appropriate appropriate corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you. All the prepared debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. The time for discussion is five minutes on the application. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Minister, as do you, I do not believe that it is a coincidence that only your answers to the question of the Member State are discussed. In fact, the responses of ministers and also the Prime Minister of the Government are often flawed, and many proposals to discuss these answers have been made by the opposition. Many, few ten to the meeting and only to the Minister for the Environment and Space have already been compared several times to hold a debate, with the support of some coalition parties and Members. Dearly beloved, I am sure, so much in the defence of the Minister, that this is not only the result of the Minister's answers, but it is also the result of a certain pressure, political pressure by individual coalition groups to the Minister. So much for political culture and the innocence of these issues and these discussions. I will not give up cases where it would be possible to have an even more well-founded debate on the empty answers, in fact not to answer at all, because there was nothing more than this case. However, there were some questions in this answer, or some questions, that I did not get an answer to. And the Minister, this is my second part of the current debate, which is a little more critical. Indeed, you have absolutely nothing to do with the failure to publish this regulation and the cause. It is therefore right to base and answer. You have absolutely nothing to do with this regulation, which was or should have been published in 2007, and it was in 2008 and caused a lot of damage. However, you have quite something to do with the fact that it was not until the middle of the previous year, I warned you in the debate, but I did not get an answer that no financial structure was adopted. Continue to invest in water infrastructure with the construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants, since this financial structure was not available, there is still a project for the construction of hydropower plants, in particular the construction of the accumulation pool at the Krško hydroelectric power plant. This, however, falls within this mandate or the current term of office and in the previous year. And because the Government's decision was not implemented, it was the Government's decision that the Ministry of Environment should find a financial structure for the construction or financing of water infrastructure when the hydropower plant was built, because this decision was not implemented, an invitation to build an accumulatory pool at the Krško hydroelectric power plant was cancelled. There was no talk about it, even though it's flying all over this term and nothing's flying back. So you always wash your hands again and again, when I'm innocent, but behind me or everyone before me is wrong, it's not entirely right and it's not right. So much for that, too. Once again, I propose that concessions are indeed fully regulated, at least on energy facilities that use electricity-producing watercourses, at least there, to be regulated. Just to put on a common denominator all the thermo-objects and possibly new, now-increasing energy facilities such as solar power plants or even geothermal power plants or something like that. So it is more than necessary to deal with these problems; and once again, I do not share or am not such an optimist that everything was done within the mandate of the previous government. There was no mandate of the previous government, and there will also be no mandate of this government. There's still something else to do. Do not resent Members, even if we have been responsible for specific areas in the past, to remind us of what remains to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, once again, I would like to point out that we believe in the Slovenian National Party that you are not directly responsible for what is being discussed, and also for the consequences, you will probably have more than enough arguments if such and other material, financial and probably other arguments arise - you will know how to defend yourself before the court. But it's a principle. I ask you, this was not found in the answer, so I also applied once again for the debate. This is a principle: When will we correct this injustice to the congregations that planned it? They planned them in their budgets and, of course, they were also preparing - a few municipalities I know have prepared project matters that would be financed by these funds. Last but not least, millions of euros that have not been allocated, not on your own account, I say once again, on the guilt of the former government - respected Mr Vizjak, yes. And it's basically also about finding this responsible person once, because I'd like one out of this fathead, I'll say, a comparison done. A worker in direct production, if he does harm to an undertaking, is dismissed in accordance with the Act on Working Relations for False Reasons. Simply, he gets fired at home and gets dumped on the road, and they put it in the workbook. Now the workbooks are gone, but it's probably one big minus for him when he's looking for a new job. No one gets hurt in the public service system. I believe this negligence, too, is why the order is only only 27. 12. why it has not been published in the current year, why there was no room for this money to be transferred to the municipalities, we know that it has been collected in a special account. Maybe it's because we invested it somewhere else. Before that, I had my doubts and my suspicions that this went to Bell 1 which has not yet returned this money today and I would like to look into it in fact. I have suggested to you, Your Honor, that you warn the criminals and, by your official duty, report this matter, this impeccable business, and that you find essentially this criminal association that has been in favour of this event. It's the end of the 25 million money we gave to someone with the knowledge that we'll never get it back. Of course, I believe it was now necessary to delay, only 27. 12. We have adopted a government order and, of course, time has run out, we have not been able to publish it in the Official Journal, there are no conditions for payment. This is understandable if we find a causal link, why it was. This causal link is in Bell One, which is still ringing worse, but it's ringing. I'd like to know what we're going to do with this responsible person, because for this "pig" is the name and last name, and if we're going to act. Whether, according to the system of this Labour Relations Act, we will also determine responsibility for this official, an official, and show him the door. If you have time, I believe you'll be in the Ministry for so long, you can kick someone in the ass at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you. We concluded the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - This is for discussion on the reply of the Minister of Environment and the space of Mr Viktor Erjavc to the business question of William Trofenic in connection with the issue of building permits for the manufacture of broadband networks. At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by Environment and Space Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec to the question of the issue of building permits for the production of broadband networks. I give the floor to Mr Willi Trofenik to further explain the request for a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	Once again, thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President. Very short. Undoubtedly, the construction of broadband networks and, in particular, the EUR 45 million generated by the European Union for this purpose is welcome, but, of course, the issue is not as uniform as it would appear. Not only have these 45 million divided 12 municipalities, whose mayors belong to one former political option, I think, the former coalition, but at this point I do not particularly want to trouble myself, there are even more difficult problems in the realisation of the buildings themselves, from the point of view of the regulations governing construction or interventions into space. I therefore asked the Minister responsible for construction whether the provisions, in particular two relating to the construction of buildings, had been taken into account, whether the investor had to prove that he had the land and, secondly, that the projects had to be revised. I have received a very short reply from the Minister that no, because the building permits are not necessary or issued by the Ministry or the subordinate administrative unit, which is possible. Of course, the previous Article 7 - in the meantime, we have amended the Law on Electronic Communications - says: "Electronic communication networks and future infrastructure, which is designed to connect with public communications networks and to provide public communications services, must be built in accordance with the rules on space regulation, construction of buildings, including new essential properties..." and so on, that I do not read. Of course, the only third paragraph of this Article, point 4, states that "although public communications networks were not intended to provide an economic service, maintenance works shall be considered to increase the capacity of existing or to establish new communications systems and access networks." The concept of the "access network" in the law, not old or new, is not defined anywhere and is obviously an abuse that has been present for the last two years since 2007, so that difficult interventions into a space such as the construction of a few ten kilometres of the network are carried out literally in the home. While it is imperative to prove the land right available by means of so-called service contracts or other instruments, Slovenia does not have 40 % of the required service contracts, that is to say that the construction is illegal by European means and that the projects have not been controlled. Thus, the situation is that we have a left-hand side of the village road, which is a white fox and gets a European network, the right-hand side is not a white leaf, and those citizens get nothing. This is the quality of the use of dedicated European funds, and I fear that we will still have a headache, some more, some less, because it is not expected that the relevant services will not recognise, recognize and require appropriate sanctions. This was the purpose of the question to be made clear and clear on the basis of which legal provisions are being implemented, and we can conclude ourselves that this is an abuse of paragraph 4 of the third paragraph, and this is the most grave abuse since the concept of "access network" in legal terminology is not defined anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Dear President, thank you for your word! To the honourable Member, once again from the party Zares, a new policy, I thank Mr Trofenik for this question, but I apologize for having the material, because I want to read the legal basis carefully, because the magnetogram is going to be about this. The Construction Act establishes the area of construction of all buildings. Then we have a regulation that defines the types of objects in terms of complexity and this defines four types of complexity: demanding, less demanding, unrequited and simple objects. The investor must obtain building permits before the construction of all buildings, except for simple ones. And here we are now faced with whether the construction of broadband networks is difficult, less difficult, less demanding, or easy. And experts have put themselves on this issue, at the position that the construction of broadband networks is simple construction and that there is no need for a building permit. This leads to the complications that you mention. The Ministry of the Environment is also the Ministry of Space and our professional colleagues are preparing and responsible for this legislation - the Construction Act and so on. However, as far as the construction of broadband networks is concerned, we have another law, which is the responsibility of your President, this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and I hope that this will not be understood as my grave attack on the Minister. Because, look, since you've asked this question so that there can be no doubt here, I just want to answer correctly. The Electronic Communications Act also regulates the construction and operation of electronic communications networks, including broadband networks. Under this special law, which falls within the competence of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, it is stipulated that the construction of broadband networks does not require a building permit. Construction is carried out as maintenance works. As a lawyer, I have to say, I don't understand. This is a purely new facility and the Electronic Telecommunications Act provides that maintenance is not necessary. I agree, now I don't know if it's about maintenance there, it's probably about maintenance. Go take a look, or maybe you're wrong, because I don't want to do anyone any wrong. Did you go to see? Well, I would ask you to continue the debate to really prove to me that this is a new building and not maintenance, because otherwise you will be in serious trouble, especially because you have asked a very embarrassing question and your party's president will look at you badly, and that is not what I would like. Let me finish because I only have a minute left. Look, we sent a letter on this matter to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. This is how we wanted to understand this article in the Law on Electronic Communications. Ms Barbara Pernuš Grošelj, senior official, Head of the Information Society legislation sector, is signed. This is certainly the lady who is the highest authority in the field of interpretation of the Law on Electronic Communications. I don't think it's any bigger. They say, we agree that, under the Law on Electronic Communications for the Construction of Broadband Networks, there is no need to obtain a building permit concerning the definition of maintenance works for public benefit, in relation to building regulations. In the category of accessible networks, paragraph 4, third paragraph, Article 7 of the Law on Electronic Communications [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] they also find broadband networks. [[...]] I must say, as Minister, I am also a graduate lawyer, although I am constantly hearing that I am a lousy lawyer, but no one will convince me that, on the basis of a provision that allows maintenance work, you can build a new network. Now I'm calling you, challenging you, are you sure this isn't about maintenance of telecommunications? Because otherwise you're in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Mr. Secretary, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group has already expressed its view at the outset and, when calling for a broader hearing on the construction of broadband networks, that this debate is not necessary. It is not necessary in this sense because the basis for the construction of broadband networks is precisely defined and specified in the Construction of Buildings Act and also in the Telecommunications Networks Act. We think it's about building non-requisitional buildings and that's why we don't need a building permit. It is true, however, that the Telecommunications Networks Act specifies that the construction of broadband networks is considered to be maintenance work, so that no building permit is required. And if we expand this content a little bit wider, then we could hear that the state or the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is spending about thirty-five million at this time to build broadband networks across Slovenia, and if we add that they are part of a broadband network of higher standards for our citizens and citizens, and if we also say that broadband networks are exclusively built in rural areas, then we know that this is a project and money that is going in the right direction and for the right things. However, if we add to this a request for all these projects to be made and obtained a building permit, then we can say that this would greatly, greatly extend the duration of the entire implementation and implementation of these projects. It would probably take two years to obtain a building permit, because it would also be rather pointless to draw on the intensity and effectiveness of European funds. The DeSUS Group believes that the debate will, of course, go ahead as it was set up, but we strongly believe that it is not necessary to issue a building permit for the construction of broadband networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko has a friend on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no doubt a positive fact that when we get money from Brussels, as much as €15 million, we should be more, I don't know, more cognizant or less arguing about how we're going to spend this money. However, we have had quite a few problems with the distribution of this money, and now we can see that this money is more or less, I will say - even the obvious - illegally spent. Whether the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the issuance of building permits has essentially violated the law in such a way that it has only issued these building permits directly, this is a question that can be resolved if it is put into the hands of a lawyer. The Construction Act, in particular Article 56, speaks of the need to exercise the right of service or ownership if a building permit is to be obtained. Today, we hear from the minister’s mouth that construction can also be maintenance or that we can build under the pretense of maintenance. This is the first time I've heard this term, but I'm glad to see that it's so simple that we can build simple facilities under maintenance without any building permits. Of course, there will be many more in this country. It is also true that it is difficult to understand how the Minister of Higher Education assigned himself essentially to the field of electronic communication. I don't know why we let that happen back then in the National Assembly. Perhaps because there is a great deal of business interest within his companies which he manages, but perhaps this is the reason why the Minister in fact wished to have this area and, when he manages these matters, he also partly assumed this responsibility, and perhaps even Mr Golobič, who is acting in society in essence and in front of the National Assembly, should sit here next to Mr Erjavac, very forgettable. He likes to forget something more than once. I don't think he'd tell us anything smart, because what could burden him, he'd either dress him up or he'd forget to say. On the basis of the service contract alone, according to the Slovenian National Party, it is also difficult to issue any building permits. This was also used by other construction workers when they built residential buildings on the basis of their ministry, sold them later, and the buyers found that the building’s owners were not complete, but only what they bought, but the land was from someone else. However, this can happen to us, and as long as there are so many legal gaps and gaps, injustices and doubts will also be involved. I believe that with that kind of money, 45 million euros, even private interest, if not private building, because this money is still imbued with the funds provided by the Republic of Slovenia from the budget; we know how European funding is going, and we can quickly get there to 60.70 million euros. And that's the number that the builders like to talk about, and I believe there's an opportunity for some envelope. The Ministry of Environment and Space has made at least one moral error, if not already legal, that it has only allowed itself to issue these building permits, but there is little too much for that, we have administrative units in the country, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Now I will no longer greet my colleagues and my colleagues, and I cannot greet the Minister anyway because he is not here. On behalf of the parliamentary group, however, I would like to say that it seems very important to us that the development of broadband networks is also in rural areas of Slovenia - I must say that we have a very nice word for "rural" also in Slovenian, and I do not know why we are sick to use foreigners in such verbal relationships - in rural areas of Slovenia with classical and wireless technology, because this only progresses slowly and causes the so-called digital divide between the inhabitants of Slovenia. We are therefore pleased that the European Union has earmarked €45 million to cover so-called white foxes. However, it should be pointed out that, while the construction of electronic communications networks and related infrastructure is included in the Law on Electronic Communications in spatial regulation of State importance. However, the supervision of the implementation of the provisions on the construction of public communications networks and related infrastructure shall be carried out by an inspector responsible for spatial and construction matters. I must say that it is unusual that one law governs an area that is solely within the jurisdiction of the law relating to intervention into a space and that the question of Comrade Trofenika has not been focused so much on whether or not a building permit is necessary for the construction of a telecommunications network. So it is unusual that for 80 kilometers long a telecommunications broadband network does not require a building permit. I have to say, I have to use the non-English term, "things." There's nothing else I can say. So that 80 kilometers of pipes can be placed in public, especially in public roads, it is necessary to know that this is mainly an infrastructure that is placed in public roads, which tend to have a large majority of the status of public goods, it is said that this service should be obtained not only by the public service, but by an investor on the municipal council of the individual congregation who is the manager of this public good. However, where the country is concerned, the Government should, of course, grant this service, whether or not a building permit is required, but the consent of the municipal council or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly necessary for the service. And here, of course, when it comes to public goods - it is necessary to know that when it comes to ordinary land, it is sufficient that, under the new 2007 law on the real estate of the country, the provinces and the municipalities, the mayor may, on his own, grant a service or a building right, regardless of the value of this building right or service. So we've taken on amazing things in our previous term. But we can't just, with our left hand, eliminate someone who asks very important questions. How is it possible that only the location information for the construction of the 80 km telecommunications network, where not only the cable was placed in the ground, was placed in which several cables can be placed/installed, and that no service was required or the service was given to a very small extent. However, the competent or competent administrative units did not ask any questions about this. Not to mention that the congregation that issued the local information should first ask itself how it was not for the municipal council to decide - that is, those officials in those congregations who gave it - on the service of the public good. That is why we expected the Minister at the 11th meeting to respond fully to the question of his fellow Member and to tell us what the reasons are, not only that the Telecommunications Act solves all these matters and we are not concerned - this is not true. The Ministry of Environment and Space is still competent to monitor whether it is legally laid - that is, if not the other, the Geodetic Authority must certainly have information on where this cable is laid at all. In GIS, you should have a picture of where these telecommunications cables are going. This must be drawn, written and so on as a permanent document. And I think today is an opportunity for us to hear a little bit more from this point of view today, what is with this allocation of service rights, what is with recording this infrastructure. For example, the Geodetic Authority now has it recorded in the geographic information system, whether the cadastral of these devices is complete or just like that, and it will be, in three months, that the road where this cable runs needs to be repaired, and someone will come and cut the cable that has such and such speed of data transmission, without even the cable being able to cut it. Because simply as it all shows, given that no building permit was needed, as we have heard today, and as we have heard at the 11th session, because there is no need to do so in the cadastral infrastructure telecommunications facilities in this particular case, then, of course, no one knows that there is any broadband internet connection at all, and when anyone has any will, desire or anything else to cut the road on average, this cable will be cut off as well. And for this reason, we believe that it is necessary, however, that experts at the Ministry of Environment and Space at the time when the decision was taken not to have a building permit, that it should be recorded that this is not unnecessary, but that a less demanding object for which to have this and this permit, consent, service and what I know is what else. Therefore, there are things for which, despite faster construction, with a view to better linking rural areas with the Internet, it also ensures the quality of the intervention into space, in such a way that all records and everything that is included in the monitoring of the state of this internet infrastructure or broadband infrastructure are carried out as is necessary. And there's one more thing. This current policy of building closed optical networks should be abandoned and the construction of an open optical network on which multiple providers can offer electronic communications services under competitive conditions should be implemented. In our opinion, however, in Slovenia we will achieve the European Union average of access to computers and broadband networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice-President, Minister! When I listen to these interpretations on broadband networks, it is true that we must be commended that we have earned €45 million for building broadband networks, especially where there is no commercial interest in building this already existing business with this commercial interest. It is also true that we want this to be built as quickly as possible to make the documentation as easy as possible. It must be said that the congregations are those who are investors. Together, a number of congregations are joining up to sign up for these funds and to build this broadband network. The question raised to the Minister is that it is too simple, too irresponsible and that it should be complicated. But I see the problem is that a lot of these white foxes aren't where they're supposed to be. That these criteria, or consents given by current companies operating telecommunications or having a monopoly, are sometimes incomprehensible that there may be a weak legal basis or decision. As far as construction is concerned, we must be aware that they are building municipalities, that according to the Construction Act, the network itself is simple buildings for which no building permit is required. Of course, it is necessary to obtain a contract of service for land in order to avoid lawsuits that could arise as a result of trespassing. Most of this network is built on public roads or land owned by congregations as far as possible. True, these public roads, or roads, often run on private land, and this problem also arises. All those buildings for which a building permit must be, and these are transmitters, but they are not simple objects and construction permits are needed, the municipality must acquire ownership on non-construction land, that is to say agricultural land, that is to say agricultural land, which is a major problem. Although it is a so-called infrastructure, it would be possible to dispel it for public benefit, but the legal basis is a valid implementing space act, which we do not have. In this case, there are quite a few complications on the ground that the congregation is trying to gain service or land ownership for such facilities. We need to understand the matter by making simple objects, that the investor is a congregation. Of course, as Mrs Pečanova explained earlier, I think that wrongly, the congregation must ensure that this municipal infrastructure enters its GIS so that it will have an overview of it. Likely, the pipes that fall down will not only serve this purpose, but in the future they can serve for any other transmission of data. We don't see any problems here. The problems are, in particular, where public roads take place, public roads through private lands, or where people do not want to sign service contracts. If it is not possible to obtain service contracts, there is a problem. We should have the possibility in the Spatial Planning Act that, for these cases, a public service contract may be divulged or obtained without the consent of the owner himself. We see more difficulties in adapting legislation so that it can be built as soon as possible on the shortest or easiest path. And then it comes into the hands of the congregation, and I have no doubt that this infrastructure would not be good for the congregation. However, that operator has this infrastructure for a certain period of time in management or rental and then this thing is municipal. Here I see a lot of misunderstandings on this issue. I would appeal to the Minister for as long as it takes to complete the Law on Spatial Planning or to finally adopt a law on decommissioning for public benefit, even though only for line facilities, and this law also provides for the possibility of obtaining service or property rights for such facilities where there is no need for building permit or acquisition of ownership.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. In the parliamentary group, we support the efforts and construction of the broadband network as one of the important parts of public infrastructure, but under legal conditions and so that the Republic of Slovenia will not be embarrassed or adversely affected by the European Community's once-in-a-lifetime visa. We reject any "pink punk" philosophy from one ministry to another. Otherwise, I accept this offer from the Minister for Environment and Space, who inherited this situation in his own part of the responsibility, as was inherited from Minister Lahovnik for a few months and Minister Golobič from him. I think that at least four or four ministers should be concerned about what is happening with 45 million European funds: Minister Golobič, Minister Erjavec, Minister Križanič and Minister Gjerkes. Because all four of them will have a severe headache when the bill is out. It is important to be aware that the applications of affected entrepreneurs and certain citizens are already in Brussels. I even have some copies because people got caught. What's the problem? The question was raised on purpose only on two articles or on two provisions: land management and project control. And there's something else to be aware of. He built projects for Telekom, according to his household. Most of the constructions are carried out by GMOs, Telekom's daughter company, where the question is whether it is even admissible for that company that defined the white fox and the most responsible in Telekom to warn that the projects are politically and non-professionally prepared and even advise that the invitation to tender be revoked. For the invitation to tender to be legally corrected, of course, it is only a godly desire. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, regardless of who is responsible or which group of ministers will be responsible, we will support those solutions that will be good for the development of a type of infrastructure that will not be cross-border or domestic legislation or European legislation. And it's not true that it says in what law that you don't need a building permit. It has been an abuse or interpretation of a sub-law since 2007, when some have voluntarily begun to interpret it. However, no law states that a building permit is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! When we talk about broadband networks, we must be aware that we are talking about building links in the white fox area, which means that citizens in these areas cannot access the Internet, which we believe is unacceptable for the third millennium. It is sad that a state company has not done so before and has updated its network exclusively in areas where they have found a commercial interest. This is certainly another area that proves that we are facing centralisation in Slovenia and that not all areas have developed evenly in the past. Citizens in urban settlements have the opportunity to choose operators via whom they will telephone, access the Internet and watch television. They can choose the speed of access to a few 10 mega bytes. In a large part of the Slovenian countryside, citizens are also not given basic access to the Internet, which suggests the unfair development of telecommunications networks in the past. Today we are talking about the construction of broadband networks, for which there is no need under the Law on Electronic Communications to obtain a building permit if a network is to be built for public benefit. Doesn't mean we don't have to have proper service. We therefore propose that the competent inspection services monitor this to ensure that investors have all the necessary consensus that there will be no problems and irregularities that we have witnessed in the past in the construction of mobile operator base stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. In doing so, I would like to raise two questions that you are calling for your own answers. I'm asking the Minister if I understand you correctly, but you said earlier that construction could also be maintenance. If that's true, then it's, I don't know, a concept that needs to be cleared up in the National Assembly. Because I believe those who look at us have an interest in building something new themselves under the pretext of maintenance. Otherwise, I don't understand how this could hold up legally. Secondly, I am interested in the law on the construction of buildings, in particular Article 56, which explicitly states in point 4 that for such interventions it is necessary to obtain a building permit. Could the Ministry of the Environment and Space really only issue this through administrative units? If that's true, then we have another practice that will become a rule. I can assure you that in the future you will have quite a few such requests at the Ministry, because people are waiting months and months in administrative units for their building permit. They don't usually get it either, which is a few of those. Or there are always new demands. Here we see that it can also be built on a shorter path, perhaps with VIPs, "relationships and acquaintances" are important here. If this is European money, then this is even more interesting. I understand that we are building mainly for the rural part of Slovenia, i.e. for peasants, to establish access to electronic communication also for those who for commercial reasons would never have this opportunity, because we know that a covered area in a block, a hamlet, a settlement, a city, rather than in a village will be covered. That's right. But if we are talking about spending European money, which we had to add to our integrated budget, then it is imperative that we ensure the transparency and legality of the use of these funds. In this case, of course, that's not the case. In particular, I take into account, Minister, what you yourself have said that Mr Golobič has succeeded in this National Assembly in obtaining electronic communications under his portfolios in this mandate. Maybe because it's an ultra interesting job and it's an ultra-high interest in what we're talking about today. Of course, Ultra is an interesting interest if Europe has given me 45 million and probably some 20 from its budget. Whether it's legal or not, I'm asking you, the funds used. Or if there is a violation of the law here, will you take action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Dear Member, thank you for asking. I must say that it has already been said nicely at the presentation of this question of the Member States, and some of the groups of Members have found that this is not only a question for the Ministry of the Environment. I think that Mr Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, is still missing here, then Mr Gjerkes, Minister of Finance, because this is a complex issue. And I'll go in line, he hasn't answered those questions that I'm responsible for as Minister of the Environment. Construction is maintenance. I have to say, this is some serious legal exercise. As a lawyer, I can't understand that building is something new to maintenance. My brain, believe me, if I've finished law school, I probably have some predispositions to understand what building a new facility is, what maintenance is. I don't know, maybe I'll have to get some extra education to figure it out. But they will be legal experts, because look, we have Dr. Udet, Dr. Cerar, Dr. Pirnat very much likes to hear, they always ask him questions, especially when it comes to very delicate things. My opinion is that this is pure legal exercise. Why? Because I have to say he's not, not a man, a god who could say that building something new means maintenance. It's against the laws of nature. Just because you go to a doctor to support your body doesn't mean you were just born. I have to use plastic terms. If there's anything new, it's new. But if something's holding up, it's probably already in this world. Then that's what's going on. I am grateful to the Member, Mr Trofenik of the party Zares - a new policy to ask this question. This is a matter of some fundamental natural issues. I don't know, maybe we'll make a difference in the perception of the world. As far as building permits are concerned. Because of the interpretation of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where Minister Gregor Golobič is responsible, we have not issued these building permits, nor does the Ministry of Environment and Space have this authority. We can only do it when it comes to the state space plan. Well, those of you who are already sitting on multiple terms, you probably agree with me. I hope you know that the Government's State Spatial Plans have been adopted to become the Ministry of the Environment. This isn't about the state space plan, but it's about some linework. Of course, in this country, in this legal order, in this legal system, which we all so respect, maybe some little less, especially I have a lot of readings, but we'll see what happens in the court procedure, what will be proven, I think nothing, but the following. We have a building law. Those of you who have been Members of Parliament for some time now know that this is a general provision. I explained it to you, I went literally to read it, because you know, the magnetogram will be very important because I don't want to read in the next day in newspapers that are important for public awareness, to inform you that we're going to say, "Karl Erjavec lied. Karl Erjavec caused damage." Because it's usually on the front pages lately. That's why I decided, because I usually don't like to read, because you know why a person should read, but if you are a minister, if you accept a political responsibility, I say, a good politician has to know every question for at least 5 minutes or 10 minutes. But it's in such a way that no one can catch him talking and blabbering nonsense. If this politician can't do it, he better go home. He'd better do something else. But in this case, because it's very exact legal questions, I made an exception and I'd rather read it. Well, as I said, the building law, you who accept these laws, we've already completed it, you remember. It's a general rule. Then we have special regulations. These are for certain areas. A specific rule provides for how to act. And the law states that a special provision, a special provision has priority over general, but must not be contrary to legality and so on. I don't want to start a legal theory here because that's what the professors, the doctors of law are going to explain. But some Member may also explain if he has much of that knowledge. I have it, you know, because I became active in politics only in 2004 as Minister of Defence, but before that I worked in areas of expertise: the Secretary of State for Justice. You know, we had nice stories with the notaries, and it's a shame that nothing happened, something special, not in the previous term, I hope that it will be in this mandate, and six years before human rights. You know how much theoretical knowledge it takes, I wrote articles and so on. But I'm not a civilian specialist, but since it's all recorded, it's going to be reviewed by the science doctors, the civilian experts. But I can tell you that it seems to me that I had a dozen bonds, that I was very good in this area. Well, if it's a special rule, then of course we have to take that into account. And since this question has been raised by the Member of the Trofenics, we have asked the Ministry which is responsible for the regulation. And this is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. At the head of this ministry, as he himself has stated, is a politician, not an expert if you read the hiring. I'm not saying this because I want to be malicious, but I want to wash him off a little bit. Because he's already in hiring himself said that he's just here as a politician, that he's not an expert, because he's not a doctor of science. For the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, at least you need a doctor of science, a professor, or I don't know, a scientist. But well, in democracy we know that ministers are not politicians, and I do not want to be misunderstood that I am now attacking Minister of Science, Mr Golobic, because I understand that he is politically performing this function. But the man responsible for the legal area, I've read your name, and I'll do it again, and I hope I'm not doing her any harm, but it's a professional question, not a political one. It just so legally interprets the role of the Law on Electronic Communications, the visa of the Law on Construction. And since it's a special provision, we just have to follow that view. I believe that this is the man who is the greatest legal expert in the field of electronic communications. But the President of the State of Türk has already said that if someone makes a mistake, sometimes we should give him something to forgive. And I hope that we will also forgive these ladies if she has made one legal error. Given that, you know, a lot of things need to be examined, sometimes even a person is wrong. You know what it's like to make a mistake. If I didn't do anything, then there's no mistake. You know, if I hadn't done anything in the last five years, I wouldn't have made any mistakes, and I'd be super minister. Such an ideal minister, even though I don't know if there are ideal people, but somewhere I've read that I'm not an ideal minister. I hope the rest of them in the government are perfect. But I'm not going to politics. Let me finish. This special provision provides for how we must act in these cases. That is why we asked Mrs Barbara Pernush Grošelj, the head of the information society legislation sector, the most competent, professional person. I'm sure she's not a politician because I'm sure you'd know her. Because I know all these policies in this country, and believe me. And I think she really is an expert, but she may have misinterpreted it, but let's make this mistake, because someone's just gonna say there's nothing wrong with you ever making one mistake. Such a standard lays down the highest moral authority in this country. And what does she say? "We agree that there is no need to obtain a building permit under the Law on Electronic Communications for the Construction of Broadband Networks." What am I supposed to do? What should the Minister do? Or should I, as a politician, because I am a politician, the president of the party DeSUS, who advocates for pensioners, because you know that. But I can't rape this professional with some opinions right now. I can't. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I know it's her, yo, yo. [[...]] But, you know, I had my first day in 2010, her, uh, her, when I was looking at what stupid things are coming to me. But I want to say this, if we get such an expert opinion from the highest legal authority in the field of electronic communications, from those who have written this law, do not expect my officials to do otherwise. We are based on this administrative unit, probably not by letter, but this practice has been developed so that no building permit is necessary. But I must say that we are very deeply interfering with certain constitutionally protected rights. Unless a service is concluded on the basis of a contract. What if the client does not want this cable to cross her land and the congregation is unable to agree? We know what happened in Dolenjska, what a delay in the construction of the highway. Because the Constitution is in force in this country. The Constitution also states that one of the fundamental rights is property right. And we're trespassing on property rights without a building permit, with nothing. Under this Article, the law allows, so you have accepted, honourable Members and Members, that it can be understood that when it comes to maintenance, this is not a construction intervention. When it comes to maintenance, however, you should be aware that you are not interfering with property rights because a service contract has already been signed or has been sold. And, of course, it is normal, if a service right has been obtained, to include maintenance. And it's not a legal exercise in this country, ask all the eminent doctors of science, I don't think they'll say construction is maintenance. What do I mean? That this interpretation is mandatory for us. That is why we have followed the one in charge of the special regulation, namely the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which is the legal opinion given by the lady responsible for this area. However, I must say that I feel that the Minister here has no responsibility, because he is a political person, and he is not a lawyer, because he cannot learn about all these matters. He's got another career ahead of him, and I've always worked on legal matters. But what am I trying to say? That this interpretation was given by the Ministry and therefore there is no need for a building permit. Of course, you Members who have power in this country can decide that this law on electronic communications, in that article that can be interpreted as building is maintenance - which is crazy - to change this article, to be more clear, to know what is, by natural rules, what is born, and what is new, and what is, if someone is a little sick, should be sent to maintenance. I don't have anything else to say about this. I suggest that the Minister of Higher Education comes along, if you think you need any more answers, he'll probably come up with this strong legal service. I don't think the Minister of Finance needs to be cleared up first. But I have to say, I don't know what to say anymore. I hope that in this performance I have said all that is necessary for you, as Members and Members of this House, to be properly informed about the role of the Minister for the Environment and the space in this matter, how these rules are. I know you know that, because you're the one who's taking the laws, and you know when it's special, when it's general. I don't doubt your knowledge at all. It's a typical legal question. Obviously, this explanation, the interpretation is not good. No one can convince me that it's something new, or that something is being built, that it's the same as maintaining. There's no one who can explain it. I don't know why such an unusual interpretation. I can't tell you that. You will have to, honourable Member Trofenik of the Party of Zares, ask your Minister, and I hope there will be no consequences because, secondly, he is your boss.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	Mr. Trofenik, would you like a word as a motioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry. I'm gonna let myself have a little joke to start with. Mr. Secretary, I'm my own boss ahead, and then the other bosses come. Why? Because it does not matter which parliamentary group you belong to, which group you belong to, the responsible minister or ministers, the relationship between citizens, the country and other institutions is important, at the final stage, whether we are doing something legally or doing something illegal, whether we are spending European funds properly or spending them possibly a little later, as we are used to. I thank you for everything you've said. I will tell you the truth, if you don't cut yourself off like this for the last time on the basis of the interpretation you've shown me and which I'm spying on, the competing ministry, I'm sorry to put it that way, maybe you wouldn't even be discussing today and then you'd be done. Allow me, however, the problems are substantially, significantly harder than you would like today, I have a feeling that as a professional you are aware of these legal questions of such interpretation, especially because this unfortunate telecommunications law that we have completed before Christmas, but we have left it alone, despite warnings that something does not count that I will be very direct, nowhere defines the concept that is abused. The access network is not defined in 48 definitions of the terms of this law. I am not a lawyer, but I have learned so many twists of observation that I hope to face one very harsh one in order to be practical, especially because my former students, engineers, doctors, from this area, interpret and explain that there was no such practice until 2007. This is said to have required a building permit by 2007, as well as if you were changing copper cables or other cables, you only increased the cable capacity. It wasn't a maintenance job. What you asked me to look into. I can't, from where they're writing me, I can't go to Slovenia, even though there are 20 municipalities, I have a list here, I've got this benefit. But the problem is, along the same village road, it's the right side of the white fox, and the left side is not a white fox. On one side goes the cable, optical, and they'll join and the others won't. And what happened to my second April question is not now, but last April the Director for Electronic Communications answered. Who is responsible for determining the area of white foxes? Does the local community, as the contracting authority of the project, or the manufacturer of technical documentation or your ministry, as some representatives of some local communities claim? Answer: "The local communities, the Ministry of Economy and telecommunications network operators are responsible for determining the area of white foxes. The final list of white foxes shall be drawn up by the Ministry of the Economy on the basis of information obtained from a study prepared by the Geodetic Institute from data transmitted by local communities and on the basis of information provided by operators expressing commercial interest in each area and thus stating that they intend to build a broadband network in these areas. Each local community had the opportunity to participate in the definition of white foxes in the manner proposed by the Ministry of Economy." There is nothing clever about this text, but a revised technical document or a project for implementation. And the fundamental problem is not to build with or without a building permit, the fundamental problem is that citizens have the same right under the same conditions, it is said, on the left or right side of the road, where there is a de facto white fox, but not that someone is white, red, orange or I do not know what kind of fox he thought he was drawing. If I were to show you what this network of white foxes looks like, these white foxes are as hollow as Swiss cheese. So much for actual cases that I don't talk about anything else. You asked me -- and I accept this way of interpreting you, a little bit of living it all together, so you wouldn't think something was wrong -- or did I take a good look at if they were maintenance work. I strongly agree with you that there can be no maintenance work where there is no basis for maintenance. But, look at it, damn it, for every smallest project we finance from European funds, we have huge tables that sometimes cost an important part of this cost. And these tables stand across the whole of Slovenia, wherever any of the European funds are being built. Do you think that's where the board is? But they are written and written on them "maintenance works", but there is no hero who would put these tables up, but they have stored them in empty warehouses or depots, which in particular illustrates the legal interpretation that whoever gave them. I don't know you and I don't care. I am interested in the attitude towards citizens and the European funds for which I am sure we will partly pay them. Why will we pay them out of our own pocket, in our own government or in our own congregation? Because some entrepreneurs who have invested in this network in Slovenia are in front of bankruptcy because they are indirectly building a competitive network from European funds. But they've invested, they've rented loans, and now, if someone shares in this way, it's, let's say, incorrect. Not that I would like to argue with this interpretation, which I think is attracted to the hair, because there is some serious support in marriage, one such or another, but I agree with those who say that the construction of objects is to be resolved in one marriage, but I do not know how many laws. But, look, it's a purely primitive comparison: let's compare the construction of a plumbing, any network, and this loving laying of plastic for optics, where there are virtually plastic tubes. Is it possible, then, to build tens of miles of water without a building permit in this way? I don't think there's a hero who'd go to do that except for the connections to the houses. It is far from true what some people are trying to do, I do not intend to dispute, because there have also been some practical discussions today: we have to use European funds quickly, efficiently, 45 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have 4 billion and something useful to spend, but it does not say that we will build all possible facilities without regulations, illegal and questionable conditions. I, as in the previous question and discussion, did not want to open up responsibility. There are many things I could say and document how 45 million for 20 Slovene municipalities, which do not represent even a dozen Slovenian municipalities, leave the countryside, the city, where necessary, this split. And why was the question to the Minister for Environment and Space? Since it is logical to clarify on this route, in accordance with the rules on the construction of buildings, whether the minimum standards provided by these rules are ensured. I don't claim that building permits are required by all means. In any event, it is necessary to have a document or a right at the disposal of the land on which it is built. Do you know what the owners are getting at? I agree that this is a serious problem in terms of the rights of some citizens and citizens and that it will fly in like a boomerang. He will fly in with that minority who has signed the service rights or the service contract, but there are no spells of these adulterous pipes, but the ignorant and unwarranted have signed a service for the whole lot on which the byte stands to have one piece of such installation. Anyone who doesn't know what he's signed is going to have some serious consequences, because then, of course, when it comes to it, she won't want to know that he hasn't been informed that he didn't know or anything like that. If the percentage gap between the necessary services and the actual form of contracts were minimal, one would understand that. However, it is a case of actual practice where not half of the service contracts are signed and the rest is built, to say the least, in black. And what is the quality of such building and how citizens can feel, those who, after an accident on the side of the Geodetic Institute, do not know what this had to do, based on Telekom's statements, made up the areas of white foxes. What does that look like in practice? Telekom defined her, she looks conscious, so white fox, that his bill comes out. We have cases where the first optics or the first optics in Slovenia were placed with the state guarantee at the reconstruction of the Drava power plants, we return to the Drava power plants, from Dravograd to Čakovac. Part of the running capacity had already come on a strange journey to private hands more than 10 years ago. Today, however, it is a white fox, and directly on these optical fibre capacities, additional networks are laid down by European means because there is a white fox. On the other hand, on various hills along Slovenian hills and also in Gorenjska and elsewhere there is nothing, but under the maintenance company it bathes as it seems. And one of them, if they're good, they're going to get a connection, the other one that's not "good" in a saying, and they're not going to get that connection, no matter how good it sounds, and according to the Slovenian needs, it doesn't mean anything. The debate or question was put to identify the problem. Of course, those responsible, I do not personally care which minister or which group of ministers will have to take responsibility for the situation and for the consequences. I hope they wake up and start doing what they do according to their powers and powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Willie Rezman. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Franz Bogovich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sylven Majhenič, do you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Janez Fishich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Victory the Elinčič Noble? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Vido Kres? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik? [[No, no, ……]] Vito Rouge? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav? [[No, no, ……]] Here we are at the end. Mr. Proposer. [[He's not here.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Each debater has 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	I won't be long. I just wanted to say that everything shows that we don't know some records the same way. I would just like to say this that I doubt that there can be as large an investment as more than 10 kilometres of long electronic communications network, without a building permit, cannot be maintained. The Law on Electronic Communications Networks also states in Article 7: "Electronic communications networks and related infrastructure intended to connect to public communications networks and to perform public communications services must be built in accordance with the rules on the regulation of space," I stress, in accordance with the rules on the regulation of space, "on the construction of buildings, including their essential properties and on the protection of the environment, and must operate in accordance with the applicable rules governing the safety of operation..." and so on. Therefore, it is not considered that investments worth EUR 45 million and additional own contributions to the construction of electronic communications networks for the broadband network could be built without a building permit. No interpretation of the Law on Electronic Communications can be maintained if only the first paragraph of Article 7 of this Act is read. The Ministry of Environment and Space and its exposures in administrative units acted unlawfully because they allowed the construction of an electronic communications network, broadband Internet, without a building permit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	Mr. Aloys Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In this debate, I would say what I think is the most damaging thing. Virtually everyone who has been reported has also given up the debate because it is obviously a topic to be discussed. And the question has also been raised very well-intentioned and, above all, non-political. I am sure that this story has shown a way of working that is completely wrong and that the question raised by colleague Villa Trofenik was not intended for political clearance, not the issue of broadband network and its construction and not concessions. Both questions are such that everyone would probably expect Mr Minister to come with a team that covers a particular area at the Ministry, because today in his replies, if we could listen so carefully, there were no concrete answers, except for an excuse, also to the Telecommunications Act, where the question and the proposer of this question were also said that this article had never been taken into account before 2007, and this law did not take into account the construction of broadband and other telecommunications networks. So it's a different matter. And perhaps in the Minister's reply to this question, it would be good for him to ask himself here, as energetic as he had previously asked himself who was actually responsible for the previous term. It is likely that, given that the Minister has returned, he will also be able to say that the issues of the ministry or the Minister of Economy and other ministries were raised in this mandate as well. And what has also been shown by the individual explanations when some mayors who happen to be from these municipalities, where these funds are shared, were also represented by the opinion of the parliamentary groups, and it is interesting how simple certain things are explained, because they were in terms of resources, they need to be used as easily as possible, as quickly as possible. It's definitely not a way, it's not a standard. That is why this was a question, and therefore it is also right that this issue will not be concluded, because matters need to be clarified. I am convinced that this question was on the spot, that the conduct of the call, the assignment, the use and now the use of these funds has been disputed and that the question has been on the ground and that it has to be answered and found responsibility and, above all, the way out of this problem, especially to the one whose funds are also, is called Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	I conclude the debate, thus also concluding this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. I'm asking you to listen to me in the hall. We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, within the framework of a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. Procedurally, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the procedural proposal, I would like to draw attention to what is happening to us at this extended December meeting of the National Assembly, and it has also been shown today that there are many problems in ensuring the presence of members of the Government, Members, Professional Services, so I would suggest that those who are planning a meeting of the National Assembly are realistically planning the course of meetings or at least more realistically. Mr Vizjak, it is linked to a procedural proposal which I think would contribute to making the meetings more concentrated, more working. And so we are witnessing, even in the case of the December session, that we had to do it today, on Monday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	on Monday, which is intended to be the work of Members of Parliament on the ground, to be here in Ljubljana. [[...]] And we have also missed the "time" vote for more than 5 hours today, and therefore I propose a procedural proposal that the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which you set the agenda for the College, are realistically planning to make the work more quality and time-consuming.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The announcement of time is, of course, made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have also warned myself my fellow Members, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, that it would be more prudent to plan this time more rationally. The powers here are those of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Thank you for the initiative if they take it into account. I must certainly add that this procedural proposal refers to a meeting as a whole, not to a single point. But that's also possible. We continue to decide on the amendment of Article 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 12. If the amendment to Article 12 under Article 1 is adopted, the amendment under Article 2 shall be immaterial. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 18. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 12 and 18. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[They don't want to.]] The amendments were neither announced nor tabled, so I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I must say that the debate on this amendment of the law has shown that virtually all parliamentary groups agree that it is unacceptable to charge such compensations as now charged by SAZAS to cultural societies and all other non-profit organisations or societies in the fields of culture, art, literature and so on. It is a non-transparent, unfair collection of compensations, where this collection of compensation has nothing to do with the protection of intellectual property or with the compensation of the author for the use of his work. There have been numerous examples of how, in my opinion, due to the lack of supervision and also to the ingenuity of this collective organisation, it has actually turned the authors against each other. This is no longer a collective organization that protects the interests of the authors, but has been turned around and many authors have nothing from it, and a handful of individuals on these waves and in this wind sails accelerated forward. That is why this issue needs to be addressed in its entirety, I agree. I also agree with those who say that the novel proposed by Members solves only a fraction of the problem. It saves only compensation to cultural societies when they operate on a non-profit basis and act for the benefit of the wider community. Cultural societies have often moved both social and social life throughout the Slovenian countryside and have many times been burdened by a strong dilemma, whether to move on or not. We propose that you accept this decision, and the Group of Members will also support this decision to go forward with the law, to adopt this decision, so that at least some of the problems of the current regulation can be resolved, let us also indicate that there are other interventions to the legislation that you have mentioned here and that you say are necessary. The Group of Members will support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Juri on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	Social Democrats agree on the need for a substantive change in copyright legislation. The current legislation is not appropriate and is not satisfactory, paradoxically, so the users of copyright, namely those who listen to music, so authors, i.e. those who have their daily bread from copyright. We also took an interest in the social democrats and read the bill, but we soon found it to be flawed and inappropriate. This bill raises significantly more questions than it closes. As an example, the current formulation of the proposed law will allow virtually all concert organizers in Slovenia to stop paying copyrights, regardless of whether they have earned nothing, 1,000 euros or 20,000 euros. The establishment of by-pass societies that will deal with art activities on paper while paying services to other organisations to organise concerts will allow exactly such greasy profits, and this would be the most unfair to those organisations, societies that are actually engaged in humanitarian activities and non-profit work in the field of culture. If we want to protect these organisations, we need to regulate the legislation much better and wider, and therefore the coalition parliamentary groups have been working on the amendment of the law for a bad year and we can expect that in the next six months we will have a proposal with the help of the Intellectual Property Office that will be significantly more comprehensive, of course, than any law will be perfect, but will try to answer and close the questions instead of opening the new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I vote [[...]] The explanation of vote on behalf of the Zares Group shall be given by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the Group of Members will not support the proposed law. No, because we would not agree with the basic purpose of this law. As we have already pointed out in the debate, I think the objective that this proposal also points out, and for that we can also thank the opposition, together. And this is a change of poorly unconformed legislation, so I can only say that this week, a draft starting point for a comprehensive law that will regulate the situation will be submitted by the members of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-11-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm also concluding the 12th meeting of the National Assembly and I'll see you soon. Thank you very much.
