ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Miro Petek, Joško Godec and Jožef Jerovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. The State Council is at its 26th extraordinary session. 11. 2010 demanded that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, re-judge the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act before being declared. To explain the request of the Council of State, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Peter Scream, who is on his way. Mr. Scream, if you'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State has adopted a request for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Not because they would object to a fairer allocation of tax burdens on the taxation of agricultural income on individual taxpayers, but because of the type of unresolved issues and the insufficient solutions that this novelty brings in the field of agricultural taxation. The Council of State noted that the law had been adopted following an urgent procedure, not allowing for adequate coordination with the public concerned, with great concern and opposition from the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and all other representative organisations in the field of agriculture and forestry. Also in the State Council, as regards the inclusion of the amounts of agricultural subsidies actually received into the tax base in several debates, it was stressed whether, in addition to the flat rate found in the cadastral income, it is justified to include the amounts actually received in the tax base, given that agricultural subsidies in Slovenia cover not only the loss of income from producers but also other costs of production. According to the Council of State, the law adopted following an urgent procedure was totally unnecessary and without the necessary prior examination of the consequences provided for the mandatory management of farm bookkeeping over a certain income price, represented by the flat-rate income and the amount of agricultural subsidies. The tax base on income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities should be determined for taxable persons on the basis of actual income and expenditure or standardised expenditure if the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500. According to the data available in Slovenia, there are around 3 000 100 such farms that will have to start identifying revenue based on bookkeeping. The proposed law therefore indicated only about the number of farm households covered by the compulsory management of the bookkeeping for tax purposes. However, in the process of drafting and adopting the law, there was not an estimate of the cost burden that the introduction of compulsory accounting management would entail for farmers of economies in relation to the proposed income price. Taking into account the large fragmentation of farms and the limited natural factors, the applicant did not compare the costs of mandatory accounting management with the expected increase in tax revenues in order to assess the net economic impact of a legal solution. The applicant is therefore of the opinion that the accounting management provisions will only apply after a transitional period, which would be further favoured by taking into account the tax base reduction in 2011 and 2012 during the transitional period. Such a claim is true only if the measures of the common agricultural policy maintain the real scope of income support, as it is known that the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union begins to run after 2013. The adoption of such long-term solutions under the urgent procedure and without examination of the consequences is also disputed because no new rules on the determination of cadastral income have been adopted, the implementing rules on the simplified bookkeeping promised on farms. Finally, there is no known tax burden on agriculture in the property tax system, where agricultural and forestry burdens are likely to increase significantly compared to the current situation, given the first forecasts. The legal solutions adopted in the context of the financial and economic crisis thus increase the tax burden on farmers, introduce new book-keeping obligations, which are linked to negligible costs. These burdens will reduce the incentives provided by agricultural subsidies for Slovenian agriculture, which produce under difficult conditions as an average producer in the European Union, and will also reduce the interest of farmers to carry out agricultural and forestry activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! At its 32nd emergency meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd meeting on 23 November 2010. In the context of the presentation of the request by the representative of the Council of State, the need for the mandatory management of books in the field of agricultural activities has been exposed, leaving the prior consultation with interested legal entities, and bearing in mind the difficult situation in the field of agriculture and agricultural policy in the Slovenian and European areas. According to the representative of the Government, the aim of the text is to eliminate the unfairness of the provisions of the existing law in parallel with the determination of the tax base for income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, in accordance with the economic power of taxable persons. The cancellation of the average of subsidies thus constitutes an overall conclusion, including the proposal that certain farms should be kept by bookkeeping. At the same time, they are in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute of Audit for this purpose in the preparation of specific accounting standards for agriculture. As regards the changes introduced, agreement was reached in principle between the two competent ministries and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Therefore, it is not appropriate to report that there was no coordination. In its opinion, the Legislative-Legal Service notes that the State Council’s statements refer to a substantive assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation in question, whereas legal issues do not include matters of legal nature. As the operational framework for the defined tasks of that service is exceeded, no determination shall be made to the reasons presented or to the request of the Council of State. The debate reflected views, presented opinions and raised individual questions. According to representatives of opposition parties, some texts cannot be agreed with. These include the obligation to manage bookkeeping in farms where total income exceeds EUR 7 000 500 and the introduction of a tax base based on actual income or expenditure. At the same time, the representatives of the coalition parties pointed out that, already in 2006, the arrangements dealt with in the preceding year, the illegal taxation of farmers who did not receive indirect subsidies for large farms, mainly because flat-rate taxation affects low-income taxable persons or protects the interest of large farms. At the same time, it is clear that around 60,000 households will pay less income on the basis of the novelty adopted. The express request of the Council of State for the re-decision of the law in question was not surprising. Below, the representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber specifically highlighted the pressing crisis situation of Slovenian agriculture. Otherwise, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture joins the opinion expressed on the need to end the average as the tax in question will be reduced in this way. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the following opinion: "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is appropriate." The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy did not adopt that opinion because it was not voted in favour by the majority of all members of the Committee, 7 votes in favour and 2 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government as a bill-maker. First of all, he has the word Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, the amendment to the Income Act, approved by the National Assembly at its 22nd regular session 23, is being discussed again. 11. 2010 To the position of the Council of State, which has vetoed, the Government has drawn up an answer in which data shows that the findings of the Council of State are unfounded. In its reply, the Government explains that the implementation of the amendments does not in any way constitute a general increase in the tax burden. A change in the method of determining the tax base of income from an agricultural policy measure or so-called subsidy will reduce the tax base of almost one third of households applying subsidies. These are households which have been credited with higher amounts of subsidies than those actually received, with an average amount of subsidies, and this has been fully pathological. It is true, however, that the tax base will increase on those farms which have been attributed a lower amount than the amount actually received through the average system. However, it is precisely in order for such farms to enjoy the transition to a new way of imputing income from subsidies to the tax base that a three-year transitional period is in place, namely a special solution for 2010, when either 50 % of the amount actually received or the average amount, which will be more favourable for the individual debtor, is taken into account as income from the subsidies. Therefore, no taxable person will be subject to an increase in the tax base for 2010. Even the opposite! As the cadastral income is falling by 36% for 2010, the tax base for all those in debt for this year will be even around 30% lower. The government also considers that the threshold for the obligation to manage books of EUR 7 000 500 of the income of the farm household, which is approximately the same as the amount of the minimum wage, is appropriate. On the basis of the available data, it is estimated that these are farms with a majority of 20 or more hectares of agricultural land in use. This is the amount where the cadastral income is deducted. According to the level of income, these are generally professional or at least semi-professional farms that provide employment to at least one person. Most of these farms already run so-called FAD accounting for the purposes of drawing on European funds, about 4 000 of them, and many of them are also in the VAT system. There are more than 3 000 200 farms in the VAT system today. Last but not least, it already finds income from agricultural activities on the basis of bookkeeping voluntarily over 130 farms, and such an exercise also makes it possible to deduct costs and at the end of the farm does not pay the tax under this title, because it has a practically positive zero. In the light of all the above, the Government considers that the opposition to the law is not justified, since the amendments to the Income Act take the most into account the requirements of the taxpayers to increase the fairness of the system, as well as the intention of the legislator to regulate this area of taxation in accordance with the fundamental principle of taxation, this is taxation by economic power. When deciding again on the law in the National Assembly, it should also be borne in mind that part of the solutions related to these changes is already regulated by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, which has already been approved by the National Assembly. It should also be noted that other provisions are also relevant in the amendment to the Income Act, in particular pension benefits and the different treatment of non-residents of performing operators, athletes whose enforcement is also important. This is how we expect the High Council to confirm the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Minister Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members! We are obliged to take care of all farms, including small farms, which are the most. By means of this law, we undo the injustice that has been done to them. The second moment that we need to know about this law makes the Slovenian agricultural area burden for 2010 an additional million and a half and 2010 critical for the agricultural area, so we also need to deal with operational measures. The government has already intervened twice in this area and intervenes for the third time at the end of December for 4 million euros. We have unloaded this space by reducing the cadastral income by €6 million and by this law we are burdening it by a million and a half. The next observation that farms cannot keep books is this: the fact is that we urgently need a simple agri-accounting standard that will allow a student, when he finishes secondary agricultural school, to lead this standard, or that an agricultural advisory service of an elder can teach that standard to guide. Then, believe me, every farm needs data management, needs to keep accounts, because only in this way will it be able to make a more rational decision for its future. This also makes it easier for the country to help when it is difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the Council of Likar, representatives of the Group of Members and Members, who have the status of proposer under Article 117, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly in addition to the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Two laws on amendments and additions to the Income Act have been introduced into the parliamentary procedure, which is a government under an urgent procedure which deals mainly with the taxation of agricultural households, and the second with the first-signed Jozet Tank following a regular procedure dealing with the taxation of European officials, in which we proposed taxation of all euro-functionals equally. Members of the European Parliament must forecast income in Slovenia and pay a difference in income if the tax levied on these incomes is lower at EU level than the income paid by those incomes in Slovenia. Other EU institutions and financial authorities, such as Mr Milan M. Cwickl and Mr Anton Rop, pay the tax only to the EU and are exempt from the payment of income in Slovenia. The aim of the law was to introduce the same taxation for all officials and servants of the EU institutions and financial bodies, who are posted on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly, in the way that it now applies to Members of the European Parliament. On the home labour body, the laws were united into one, in what we called a hybrid, which we opposed in the SDS, because a general discussion has already been requested on our part, and because it is not possible to combine different materials into one whole, but the government and the coalition did not take these facts into account. Thus, the United Law has virtually eliminated our proposal for amendments to the Income Act, which we have proposed in the SDS Group. The law, which is now the subject of a review or a re-decision proposal, thus in fact summarizes only a government law which mainly deals with changes in the taxation of natural persons engaged in agricultural and forestry activities. In our opinion, amendments to the Income Act will introduce new administrative and tax obligations regarding the management of accounting to determine the tax base on the basis of actual revenue and actual expenditure or actual revenue and standardised expenditure. In the SDS Group, we believe that the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 of total income, including subsidies and other income, is too low as a threshold for mandatory management of business books. It should be pointed out that the average Slovenian farm comprises 5 to 10 hectares of land and that the age structure of those farms is unfavourable. It is not that farms would not be able to keep business books for tax purposes, but that this would result in additional and unnecessary costs. The projected costs range from thousands to 2,000 euros, depending on the number of books. Farmers already have the opportunity to choose voluntarily to keep books for tax purposes, and I am sure that farmers will be able to decide for themselves what is better for them. There is no need for the state to prescribe what is good for them and what is not. Thus, in the SDS Group, we are not actually proposing this law, as one of the two proposers is acting solely for formal reasons, and we therefore oppose the law in the SDS Group and we will vote against it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The proposed text of the Income Act has already been supported by the DeSUS Group. We supported the pension tax regime, since the scheme does not virtually represent a higher tax burden on those who will decide to pay from the added pension insurance in this form. We also supported the changes relating to the income taxation segment of basic agricultural and forestry activities. With regard to the establishment of such a tax base for farmers as this law contains, and for which the State Council has voted the procrastination veto, we attach to the Government's position that something must be done in this area, because today there is actually an unequal treatment among farmers themselves, so we support such a solution. We cannot agree with the opinion of the state councilors that the novelry represents a significant increase in tax burden for farmers and the introduction of new administrative obligations regarding the management of accounting. The problem of taxation of agricultural subsidies income has been an apple of the dispute for years. However, the taxation on the basis of the averages established today is not fair in our view. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will support this content in re-declaring the law and thus help to make it fairer for all farmers, especially those who have so far borne greater burdens unjustifiably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings for both ministers, coworkers and coworkers, as well as the audience! This veto is one of the moments of truth in Slovenian agriculture, until when it can still be controlled by lies, with demagogies, and what is the truth. I think this is the moment to separate the grain from the weeds and finally those who represent the Slovenian farmer also self-critically look at themselves, at their work, at their actions. We have not considered in any way at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia since the last debate, because the law brings good solutions and is therefore worthy of support. In the opinion of the Council of State which voted the procrastination veto, the apple of the dispute is the part of the law that updates the provisions on taxation of the income of farmers and the management of books. What we do not understand in the Liberal Democracy Club is extremely opposed, since this law favors just smaller farms, which in our view must be given special attention. In order to identify the subsidies actually received and no more averages, it is intended to protect mainly those small farms which, due to the average value of the subsidies, are at a disadvantage rather than larger farms that pay too low a burden on the actual situation. This coalition also took into account the comments made by stakeholders in all segments of the readings. This is why: for the first time, it has provided for the most favourable solution to be taken into account in 2010, either under the previous system or after the proposed law. Secondly, in 2010 and 2011, only 50% of income is included in the tax base. Thirdly, it is only those who exceed the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 and not, as originally proposed, EUR 5,000, which is only in 2013, that the accounting standard is already simplified in preparation. The Council of State in this segment states that if the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 were to be adopted, according to available data in Slovenia about 6 000 100 such farms with about 11 000 500 taxpayers for basic agricultural and forestry taxes. This is simply not true, since this number is 6 thousand 100 farms which referred to the original version of the law when the threshold was set at EUR 5,000. Therefore, the number of farms that will have to manage the bookkeeping will decrease significantly. However, in order to make sense of the bookkeeping, today's data show that, for example, there are 3 000 200 farms in the VAT system, out of which only 336 farms are compulsory, and 2,000 900 are run by the bookkeeping itself. The Council of State states that the tax burden of agricultural holdings will be substantially increased, which is simply not true from the point of view of the number of agricultural holdings. There will be an increase in burdens for those large farms that have paid less unfairly on the basis of the average and at the expense of small farms. Do we want small farmers to bear the burden of large farms? That large farms are less taxed than small farms? That those people who have stayed in these small farms and live modestly or even barely walk should pay more at the expense of the great ones? Is that the goal of opponents? This is simply not and cannot be the goal neither of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia nor of responsible policy. And even if we look at data for all farms, what the law brings in 2010 – all farms will be better off. In 2011 it will be 97% and in 2012 it will be 91% better. But in this debate, the arguments are superfluous, only demagogic. If we consider all these aspects, we see that this law will make tax treatment more favourable than it has ever been, especially more fair, transparent and favourable to smaller farms. And since the LDS Club especially grieves us, it is that opponents of the law are directed against the law under the pretext of caring for Slovenian agriculture, for a small farmer. Apparently, they're protecting the lobby of powerful big farm tycoons.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me repeat for the introduction, however, that in order to defend the interests of those stronger, richer farmers, it does not appear to support the veto, because what is being discussed today is only one part of this law. And what is really important to us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members is that we should not in any way allow that tax relief for the pension savings that this law brings, and that the possibility of non-residents dealing with cultural and sports, entertainment and other programmes not being able to apply the actual costs when dealing with the tax forecast. So it must be said that it is only one part that is disputed for some, and it is a small part of those who are likely to be affected by this if we do not take into account the fact that a different way of keeping books for large farmers is likely to be an opportunity when they are in trouble and will have to show — whether they will have to — even lower incomes or higher costs or even losses. We have so far supported this law in the Solidarity Group. We supported it because the objectives are right, we supported it because we believe that the measures are also appropriate, and also because there have been a whole series of corrections in the coordination process that have been in favour of those who have had doubts about individual solutions. In particular, we have a transitional period in mind and a reduction in the base that will be included in the tax forecast in the first years and other minor corrections that have been in favour of those who have had doubts and who we believe are sufficiently justified to convince those who have opposed. The figures drawn up by the Ministry, which say that, in fact, in the first two years or three years, it is a matter of, say, anti-crisis measure in agriculture, because it helps many because many will pay less and no one will pay more taxes in the first year than they would have paid otherwise. In addition, they have the option because an alternative is given to choose for themselves during this transitional period a way to report the tax burden base. We estimate that the Government has taken a step towards justice; that those who are more difficult to break with the agricultural economy will be less burdened and that those who have been unduly privileged so far because they have paid tax only on average, not on the actual income of the subsidy – that is, this compensation proposed by the Government seems to us to be worth all the support in this area of agricultural taxation. We estimate that, while it is also right for all areas to tax those incomes that are real and not lump sums, what are the average incomes that always distort an objective and realistic situation. Since we believe in the parliamentary group that the Government has proposed a law to regulate this taxation more fairly and to regulate taxation for non-residents and those who save for a secure future and age in this future, we are convinced that there is no reason not to support the law and therefore we are guaranteeing our votes for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Let me say that when we decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act in the Group of Social Democrats, we will once again support the law because it reduces the tax burden on small farms and preserves the minimum flat-rate taxation of large farms. Indeed, for 60,000 farm households that exercise the right to subsidies, the tax base will be reduced in a new way. These are the households that have so far been credited with the amount of the average subsidy and thus paid the tax on the amount not received at all. So, this law eliminates the injustice that has taxed amounts that small farms have not received at all. The reasons cited by the State Council are in fact unfounded and show that they are protecting the interest of some large farms that want small farms to still pay taxes for them. The fact is that some large farms receive 10 times more subsidies than small ones and are taxed substantially less than small farms. This fact of the State Council overlooks and justifies the reason for the veto by adopting the law without prior coordination with the public concerned and by opposing the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture and other representative organisations. Let me say that, in cooperation with the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and trade unions and with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Finance, we have substantially eased the requirement for compulsory bookkeeping. It does not hold the State Council's record that more than 6,000 farms are to be bound by compulsory bookkeeping in 2013. These changes, which we have agreed together, will make it mandatory to keep only a thousand farms in 2013. We must be aware, however, that there is already 3 000 200 farms running a review of the invoices issued and received for the exemption of entry VAT and for the record in the implementation of agricultural policy. So we must not underestimate our farmers so that they are not able to keep books. How well they do this job when it's good for them. The interest of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Finance is that the costs of managing the bookkeeping will be minimal or that the farm household will carry out them only with the minimum assistance of the advisory service. Let me also say that the very history of such criminal taxation that we are discussing today dates back to 2006. At that time, parliamentary coalition groups tabled an amendment that legitimized this unfair taxation. We have constantly protested against such unfair taxation, which originally taxed even those owners of agricultural land and forests and beekeepers who did not receive subsidies at all. Due to our pressure and pressure on those affected, then Finance Minister Bajuk did not hope to carry out the criminal taxation of landowners, forests and beekeepers who did not receive subsidies at all. Today, after four years, we have abolished the last injustice that has occurred to small farms by means of this law. We therefore point out that voting against this law will constitute a vote on the continuation of the agricultural policy leading to the collapse of 60,000 small farms – of course because of the excessive criminal tax burden. We oppose this in the Group of Social Democrats and we will vote again in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much again for your word. Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the SDS Group we will re-vote against the law for the reasons that I have already said on behalf of the proposer, and some will be listed below. The law, which has been put into the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure, removes certain anomalies and is unacceptable for us in the work relating to the mandatory determination of the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and actual expenditure, if the cadastral income, including subsidies, exceeds EUR 7 000 500. In our view, the solutions adopted would have a significant impact on the income and social situation of the Slovenian farmer. This means, in short, that a household farmer will have to start using a demanding double bookkeeping to determine the tax base or pay an accounting service for these services. In the SDS, we believe that this is a serious and unnecessary additional financial and administrative burden for farmers, and we have therefore proposed in the adoption process that the current regime should remain in force, whereby farmers decide for themselves how to manage business books or determine the tax base. At the border of acceptable cadastral income of EUR 15 000 would be free of subsidies and other income, as is the limit for compulsory integration of agricultural holdings into the VAT system. It is worth noting that subsidies or, rather, compensatory payments are intended to cover the costs necessary for farming and therefore have the nature of income and not income. Similarly, companies receiving different support shall record these as income, from which the material and other costs are deducted. In its opinion, the government states that the shift to bookkeeping for larger farms – here I wonder whether a farm with 7 000 500 euros of total income is a large farm – is also appropriate because they will be able to show real income, which may also be less than the flat rate, or even loss, which should be of particular interest. Of course, this is possible even after the current legislation, since they can voluntarily enter both the VAT accounting system and the tax base based on actual revenues or actual expenditure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also of the opinion that, before establishing the mandatory management of business books for tax purposes over a certain amount of total income, it should also be clearly defined by which accounting standards would be maintained by farmers. For agricultural and forestry activities differ significantly from those of other companies or so, and it is not at all that farmers would not be able to keep their own business books, that there is no prescribed accounting standard for this kind of management and that it is essentially everything in the air to manage it. The legal solutions adopted represent an additional tax and administrative burden during the financial and economic crisis, which could also result in less interest from farmers in carrying out such important agricultural activities for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you. Your Honor! The Parliamentary Group Zares examined seriously and carefully the reasons for the veto of the State Council or the requirement that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. The Council of State notes that the law was adopted following an urgent procedure, without prior coordination with the interested public and with the opposition of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia. Emphasis is placed on the next position and opposition of the State Council. He says: "The solutions adopted in the law, i.e. during the financial and economic crisis, increase the tax burden on farmers and introduce new accounting obligations, which are linked to significant costs, and will therefore reduce the incentives provided by agricultural subsidies for Slovenian agriculture, which produce in more difficult situations than the average population in the European Union, and will also reduce the interest of farmers in agricultural and forestry activities." First, it must be noted that the right part of the law relating to contested solutions has had a broad and lively debate in the National Assembly and in the working bodies. The claims, especially as regards numbers and data, were very different. The demand of the State Council is very weak as far as numbers are concerned. We can understand more, in addition to the material already attached to the November session, from the Ministry of Finance's reply to the written question of honourable Member Jakob Preseknik. In short, it is a key part of the following: "As the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities is therefore considered to be the sum of the incomes or tax bases of individual members of the farm household who are liable to income from these incomes." Moreover, the position is also equipped with the necessary assessments of the structures, from those receiving subsidies to the impact on all farms according to the level of income, and we can say that the difference in interpretation that we have heard so far is obvious. A particular problem, including the unfriendly conditions in which agriculture worked, as well as habits in the past, will be accounting. In the Group, we believe that an accounting standard for agricultural activity should be established as soon as possible, which should take into account, as already mentioned by the speakers, the specificities of this activity. Integration should be carried out gradually and through the preparation of appropriate tools and the principle of professional simplicity. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u24	Nice greetings, distinguished presidents, respected ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that the adoption of this law has once again resulted in a certain stigma in the Government and that only one minor segment of this law has led to the obvious whole law being put into question because we are receiving the vetoes of the State Council. And it's not the first time that this has happened because of lack of negotiation and agreement. I can say calmly that a number of discussions have taken place in the preparation and adoption of this law, in which we have also participated, and we are pleased, at least, that we have reduced, from 70%, as was the original government proposal, to 50%, right here in Parliament. The assessment in the People's Party was, as we have proposed in the last amendment, that 30% of the taxation would still be bearable if we are aware that this is a matter of taxation of payments, which in the common agricultural policy, financed to a large extent by Europe, covers the costs that fall from income due to poor market conditions. So this is where some consensus was reached to some extent. Unfortunately, however, we could not reach consensus on the amount that represents the price for compulsory bookkeeping. In the Slovenian People's Party, we proposed an amendment with a total tax base of €15 000 to regulate the maintenance of accounting around thousands of farms in Slovenia under the new law. We have also made these comparisons in the National Assembly that it is very difficult for us to imagine that on one administrative unit we would see 50 farms of such a rank that would also go through a cost of thousands to 2,000 euros, to the extent that the bookkeeping will definitely stand at an annual level. And at this point, I must say that I truly regret that this correction has not taken place, and in this case, you could safely say that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The Slovenian People's Party would also fully adopt and consolidate the law. We are also at a time when accounting standards have not yet been produced for this law. I hope that they will now be made as soon as possible to see what this simplified bookkeeping will be, which will be enough, whether any experts will have to pay for the valuation of the underlying funds and so on and what the actual financial impact of this law will be. We are also at a time when we are adopting real estate tax laws and we do not see in these novels any anti-crisis measures for agriculture, because in this part only agricultural land, forests, barns, agricultural holdings are newly taxed, and I hope that these anti-crisis measures will be seen in that law. On the other hand, we regret that even today those advocates of the law have used again one deception that desires those who wish to do so — because of what I have said — because of this bookkeeping, we oppose it as some advocates of large farms who want small farmers to pay taxes at their expense. Let us be very clear: the reduction of this average, which we are also opposed to in the Slovenian People's Party, brings about the fact that those farms that have only part of the agricultural areas involved in the common agricultural policy, not the whole area, are more taxed than they should be and as they will be now. This is whether they are large or small farms; it is said that those who had only part of their areas involved in agricultural policy. That's why I think these words are misleading and I don't know what they're for. But if those who are so persistently repeated today as at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, please take a look around at the concerns of these great tycoons in agriculture. These are not on farms where there are farmers, but you can look at forest economies, you can also look at the largest agricultural companies that manage agricultural land in a particular area and we can talk about the typuniation of agriculture there. You will never hear that in the Slovenian People's Party we would defend such cases and strongly condemn them, but I think that there is something else to do in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party we regret that this is happening, we cannot support this law, but we predict that we will table amendments to the law in this particular part, where we will want censorship for those who are supposed to lead the mandatory bookkeeping, to reduce to those 15 thousand, says about a thousand farms in the Slovenian space, slightly less than a thousand, while the second change will go in this direction so that 30% of these payments, which cover the actual loss in agriculture, will be sufficient for the flat-rate decision of agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The vote on the law will take place on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 12. 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item – Defence of the 2009 report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the report, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have a report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia 2009. It was prepared by our Ministry in cooperation with other departments under Articles 106 and 107 of the Environmental Protection Act. The report covers the period 2003 to 2009. The aim of the document is to provide an objective assessment of the state of the environment based on monitoring the achievement of the objectives set and thus on the effectiveness of environmental policy management. The report on the environment in Slovenia 2009 covers data on the state of the environment, environmental pressures, including impacts on ecosystems and health, the impact of the economy and other human activities and human and social responses. I will give a few general findings and results from the report in a few indents. Despite its small surface, Slovenia has an extremely high biodiversity with a large number of species in a small area. After that, we are second only to Slovakia in Europe. This is particularly true for the biological diversity of the underground world and for the high, 58% coverage of Slovenia with the forest. Similarly to other European countries, there has been a worrying increase in the proportion of invasive species in the last decade. Slovenia is today exposed to environmental problems that are the main cause of energy, transport and agriculture sectors. By releasing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, the climate is changing faster than it has ever been in the past. Due to their long life span, the warming of the atmosphere will continue over the coming decades. Although external air quality is occasionally higher than PM10 particles and ozone levels, it is still satisfactory. The soils are mostly not highly contaminated. In individual areas, especially in the vicinity of former industrial or mining centres, lead and cadmium contaminants are problematic. The soil pollution limits with residues of plant protection products were exceeded in some places in the Celje Cauldron and in the Dravsko or Ptuj fields. In the field of water protection, 85% of surface water has a good chemical condition, and unfortunately, the good ecological condition does not reach more than a third of surface water bodies. The quality of bathing water at sea is largely in line with the requirements and some inconsistencies have been identified on inland waters. Next. Household consumption in Slovenia has increased by a third in the last decade. The environmental impact of Slovenia, which is determined by the mode of consumption and the number of inhabitants, is almost 2 times, about 6% higher than the biological capacity of Slovenia. So we are spending more than we have at our disposal. As the economy and consumption grow, the use of natural resources increases and the amount of waste generated increases. A special approach requires municipal waste. In Slovenia, about 20% of the population suffers from noise, the burden of the natural and living environment with electromagnetic radiation, and no limit values are exceeded. Slovenia is working with other developed countries to protect the environment. In the future, it will be necessary to monitor more closely the implementation of the national environmental protection programme, where, among other things, the integration of environmental protection requirements into all other social and economic activities is highlighted. The system of environmental policy in Slovenia is established, a comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts has proved to be a good instrument. Time will show how successful the market with emission vouchers will be. In order to meet the objectives of the operational greenhouse gas reduction programme, it will certainly be necessary to invest a large amount of resources in transport as well. The implementation of the polluter pays principle should be continued. More efforts will have to be made to promote the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies in the future. Education and awareness are key, as responsibility is passed on to future generations. In accordance with European legislation, Slovenia has set high environmental targets, which are urgently needed, although it is not always possible to achieve these objectives in full. On the contrary, we inform, through websites, about the state of the environment, so that reports that are periodic and follow-up, the current situation, can also be read in some of our publications that are available in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The report was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report to the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Welcome to the Minister and Director of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and to all colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber! At its 25th session on 13 October this year, the Committee on Environment and Space discussed the Report on the Environment in the Republic of Slovenia 2009 sent to the National Assembly by the Government under Articles 106 and 107 of the Law on Environmental Protection. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Economic Chambers of Slovenia, Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Omanotere, Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development, Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia and Alpe Adria Green. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received an opinion from the Commission on local self-government and regional development of the State Council. Following the presentation of the report by the representative of the Ministry and other ministries, the members of the committee considered that the seven-year period since the last report on the state of the environment may have caused the attached report to be insufficiently critical. If environmental reports are more frequently prepared, the long-term trends can be detected in a timely manner and can also be adequately addressed in the overall satisfaction of all participants. Members expressed their regret that the report had not been considered before the preparation of the draft budget for the next two years, since it could thus draw the attention of budget preparers to some critical areas such as Natura 2000 secure area, parks, soil and water protection, for which sufficient resources are not available in the budgets or are not used sufficiently for purpose. It was pointed out that the effectiveness of environmental protection is directly linked to financial resources and it is therefore important that financial resources are also obtained for this purpose through the appropriate development of the economy and tourist facilities. The vague delimitation of powers between the local community and the Ministry of Environment and Space and other services has been highlighted, which sometimes makes it unclear who and how it should act in certain areas. In addition, the lack of efficiency of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the efficiency of inspection services were also highlighted and the reorganisation of certain ministry services should be considered. They also considered that the report did not pay enough attention to the protection of biodiversity, the pollution of dust particles, the timely construction of regional waste management landfills, and the area of energy efficiency and related energy renovations of buildings are not included in the report at all. It was suggested that in the future, together with the report on the state of the environment, a report on the state of health of people in Slovenia should also be considered, as environmental pollution affects the quality of health and the well-being of individuals. The Committee adopted the decision to propose to the National Assembly to consider the report on the environment 2009 and, in this regard, also submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision to be discussed and decided on by the National Assembly, with only four points. However, we believe in the Committee that it would be important for the National Assembly to adopt this decision. In the Committee, we propose that the National Assembly find that the Ministry of Environment and Space has not prepared the Environment Report in the Republic of Slovenia 2009 within the statutory deadline. The first paragraph of Article 106 of the Environmental Protection Act provides that the Ministry, in cooperation with other ministries, shall draw up a report on the environment at least every fourth year. The last report on the state of the environment was prepared by the Ministry for 2002 in February 2003. The National Assembly considers that the report for certain areas of the environment is sufficiently and uniformly structured, but in view of the content set out in Article 107 of the Environmental Protection Act – 1, it does not contain or only partially: for example, for vulnerable, protected and protected areas, long-term trends and changes in the environment, the impact of individual sectors on the state of the environment, including the assessment of the integration of environmental protection requirements in the development policy of individual sectors, the impact of the polluted environment on human health, resources and the use of resources for implementing environmental protection policies, the implementation of public environmental services, the preservation of nature and water management, important international developments, the implementation of the national environmental protection programme and operational programmes. The National Assembly also notes that some of the data in the report relate to the period 2007 or even 2006 and 2005. The Minister responsible for the environment should set up a specific group for the adoption and implementation of programmes, as foreseen in the National Environmental Protection Programme, and the proposal is also for the Ministry to prepare a report in accordance with the provisions of Article 107 of the Environmental Protection Act, which should show the state of progress in the implementation and achievement of the objectives set and the long-term trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! Environmental policy has become an increasingly important part of both economic and development policies or strategies, and it has long been not only about protecting the environment, but also about managing natural goods and values rather than being responsible for conditions that enable a healthy life for people. In the introduction, the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space said that the substantive objectives of the report were to improve public awareness of environmental developments, including understanding the causes and consequences, and to provide an objective assessment of the state of the environment and a basis for decision-making based on monitoring the achievement of the objectives and progress set. In this respect, it is worth noting that despite the nice words about the importance of raising people's awareness of the state of the environment, it is completely unrealistic that the Ministry of Environment and Space has not prepared a report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia within the statutory deadline. The first paragraph of Article 106 of the Environmental Protection Act provides that the Ministry, in cooperation with other ministries, shall draw up a report on the environment at least every fourth year. The last report on the state of the environment was prepared by the Ministry for 2002 in February 2003. The report should be prepared for a four-year period. The current seven-year period since the last report on the state of the environment does not in any way reflect the current state of the environment in Slovenia, and therefore it is questionable to discuss its outdated content at all. In doing so, I would like to point out that the human attitude toward nature is still so that nature understands as something that has been put to use. In the Slovenian National Party, we therefore support the implementation of projects involving co-management on Slovenian farms, as this will only be an opportunity for their survival. With extreme pollution in Europe, organic food will be the food that the Slovenian farmer will be able to cash and which production will give him a competitive advantage over others. Eco-high agricultural tourism, sober and thoughtful research work in the field of genetically modified organisms and food, strict restrictions on plant protection products, restrictions on the use of pesticides, fungicides, repellents and others, for the environment of extremely harmful substances. Preparation of an exact list of prohibited substances for use in agriculture and increased control over the purchase, use and use of those substances. The use of renewable energy sources, in the first place solar energy, is the only constant source of energy, and at the same time because of extremely rapid development, the potential for use is becoming more optimal, more and more financially acceptable. Mandatory implementation of photovoltaic power plants on large covered areas, together with an increase in state subsidies per kilohour produced in Spanish. The apparent use of electricity, as the consumption of electricity in Slovenia is the highest in Europe. Construction of the Mura electric power plants, which will not only provide electricity, but will raise the groundwater level in Pomurje, which is already critically low today. The retention of water mass at hydrocentrals causes the groundwater to rise according to the principle of a binder. The introduction of strict regulations at the country level on settlement regulation and the use of space, the evaluation of the increased Slovenian share in the Krška Nuclear Power Plant for non-compliance with agreements and the non-payment of a proportionate share of the costs of nuclear waste storage and the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant by Croatia. If we want to improve our lives and the lives of our descendants, we are given different options: increasing organic farming, using renewable energy, solar and wind energy, using and managing water resources, using organic transport, environmental management of waste. To conclude, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would like to quote the author of the report on the global warming of the British Royal United Services Institute, Mr Mabey: "The climate impacts will force us to think radically about how we protect national interests."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The assessments of the newly completed climate summit in Cancún in Mexico are very different. Perhaps Greenpeace is the most real one who estimates that Cancun may have saved the United Nations process but has not saved the climate. Similarly, there are very different assessments of the state of the environment in Slovenia, and no assessment is very good. In recent years, we have defended ourselves several times over environmental issues before the European Commission and have successfully avoided the payment of high penalties, but have not solved – even less so – all of our open environmental concerns. With regard to the 2009 report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia, we must first agree with the first proposed decision, which notes that the Ministry of Environment and the scope of the report has not drawn up within the statutory deadline. However, due to objectivity, it must be said that the report summarises all the information that was available at the time of its preparation. The report therefore does not relate only to a four-year period, from 2003 to 2006, and would thus have a four-year delay, but it has summarised a significantly longer period of time, different in areas, given the processing of the available data. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we estimate that the second decision correctly states that the report does not contain or only partially. For example, for vulnerable, protected and protected areas, for long-term trends and changes in the environment, further for the impact of individual sectors on the state of the environment, including an assessment of the integration of environmental protection requirements into sectoral development policies. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we consider this to be a key flaw in this report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. In our opinion, the report is also extremely weak in the field of information on the implementation of the National Environment Programme and operational programmes, which also highlights the second proposed decision Otherwise, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we reiterate the fact that our legal and political culture of respect for programme documents is, in this case, a programme of environmental protection and a number of operational programmes in the field of environmental protection, extremely weak and inconsistent. Unfortunately, most of the programming documents are not only in the field of the environment for empty and forgotten rules, which we use very selectively after their adoption, when it suits us, and in the way that it suits us. A similar problem is the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme, which, in our view, is also a relatively empty document, with the adoption of which we have only formally fulfilled one of our tasks and then we have simply forgotten it. It is not surprising, therefore, that a special monitoring group has not yet been set up to monitor the implementation of the programme, which should include representatives of civil society. The state of the environment in Slovenia has not improved in recent years. Moreover, in some areas trends are deteriorating from year to year. As an example, emissions from transport and, in particular, air pollution by particulate matter should be mentioned. Unfortunately, in Slovenia too, the negative side damage is facing an economic, financial and other crisis. The paradigm of sustainable development has been more or less forgotten in recent years, including as a business opportunity or as a breaker of the economic crisis. If in Slovenia we are relatively successful in adopting the necessary software documents and laws in the field of environmental protection, we are completely failing their implementation. The price for this with our health in addition to the affected nature we pay ourselves. Unfortunately, we will be most likely to act, and we hope that this will not only force high penalties on the European Commission. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we agree that one of the main challenges of today's time is the presence and inevitable climate change and the transition to a low-carbon society. It is also a fact that our measures so far to reduce greenhouse gases and adapt to climate change are not sufficient and satisfactory. In the LDS, the Ministry of Environment and Space is expected to draw up the next report in line with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and to demonstrate the state of progress in implementation and, in particular, in achieving the objectives set, the commitments adopted and the long-term trends that will enable it to define objectives and objectives for further action.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. Let me briefly present the opinions of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament on the Environment Report. What we think must be said for the starting point is that we do not all understand the same environment. And if we don't all understand it the same way, then we don't all interpret the same data, trends, projects and everything else that follows. For it is too often for us not to see that the environment is in our naturally cultivated environment. And when we don't see this, so how decisive and decisive part of the natural state processes, as we like to say, are we, for as long as we probably don't realize what needs to be done, so that what we're basically negatively assessing can change the situation in the environment, too. The second thing I would like to say is that the report merely sets itself the goal or the purpose of being an objective presentation of the state of nature processes. It's not! This report is not already due to this, because it is weak because it has white foxes, because it does not cover everything in its entirety; because it operates with data that many are already passive because events and changes in our environment happen so quickly under our influence that, with three or four years of delay in writing reports, of course, we fail to capture them. Thirdly, what I would like to say is that the report has also set itself a goal on the basis of these objective data sets and environmental assessments to prepare appropriate measures, not just declarations of what would be good to do, and that, of course, some concrete, operational yet in very different areas in our environment is not yet visible. If there was ambition, it is stated in the report that this report improves public knowledge and awareness of what kind of mysterious situation we are in, then it is likely reasonable to doubt whether it can, with 350 or even more pages of a report, be filled with data that we consider to be objective, in whatever way we influence the public, with people to change their vision in this world and in this world and that they will be aware of themselves as part of it and stay. Consciousness, we are so afraid, is nothing better, nothing more critical to the public about the issue of this report, which has been admitted to a lot of work. In short, I believe that this debate today will be among those who are a little more interested in environmental issues, so that others will not be particularly affected, and therefore we do not expect any special results from this debate and the report itself. The Committee on Environment and Space also considered what it thought about the report. It adopted some conclusions which could only be called conclusions. The Committee noted what the Ministry had not done: how not to write timely reports, it found that it was not to write comprehensive, environmentally sound reports so that this picture could be as appropriate, processes as it is appropriate, and that no environmental monitoring commission had been set up by the Minister. And when the Committee finds that certain key things have not happened, it recommends that the Government propose that it act in accordance with the law in the future. This is as if they were a little crazy about those who think a little bit more about environmental processes. However, if we try to draw some basic thought from this report, it is possible to draw to what the report itself brings to the conclusion that lasting economic growth is not possible. But it's only partly true. It is not possible in the context of an economic and political paradigm as it is now manageable in relation to the environment. Growth will have to be transformed into development. We cannot stand, we cannot just accumulate, we cannot meet some of the standards that we have achieved, but we need to step up development in such a way that the burdens on the economy and our consumers will be different, smaller, so that they will not always be described by numbers in terms of degradation, in terms of decomposition, in short, in terms of destabilizing our external environment. If we think about a lot of data and what the report says, then we need to draw some conclusions that say that we have a lot of international agreements, strategies, targeted orientations, and I don't know what else that is generally not happening, at least not as much as it would have wanted. And also the last message from Cancun is a very bad message for me. What is tangible about this Cancun meeting, the mass, and the burdensome environment is that they have agreed on how to help the less developed ones with resources, as if in this way they were buying forgiveness for it because they themselves, the great ones, are not going to change anything. In fact, they simply cause or want to cause attention to others, not to the cruelest, most insidious cases of killing our natural, social, spiritual, and other environment. The world and we at home have a lot of behaviour about what the situation is and what the processes are like, we have much less will and power to act, and it is even less political and economic readiness to understand this in terms of global problems, so that in the vast majority of cases the state is solving problems than it is to be solved within national borders, but – unfortunately – they are not. It will therefore be necessary to change some individual processes and impacts in the environment, to change what is likely to be the most difficult, our way of thinking, our paradigms and our way of life, which we do not want to give up at national and not individual level. However, until we are ready to do so, we must not hope for any significant positive changes in the environment, and the next report will probably be something like this today, and what we are reading today does not define some of the key problems at all, nor will it touch them at all. But we will see this after we talk about how NGOs have set up a mirror for the government to make their promises come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u36	Hello, Mr. President. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have taken over everything since the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act in 1993 to discuss the report on the environment in the National Assembly. After more than seven years and after more than one term, we have the opportunity to review the report on the state of the environment again, this path for 2009. To be honest, with the 2009 report on the state of the environment, we do not know exactly what to do in the Social Democrats Group, otherwise we are trying to understand why such reports have not been made, nor every four years, since there have been no reports from 2003 to 2009. Before that, only two were realized: the first, prepared in 1996, started in 1993, and the second, dealt with in 2002, started in 1996. These data indicate a long-term low-level attitude towards the preparation of these reports. Problems with the implementation of the project have clearly arisen in each other's terms of reference. We all know that environmental data are collected from the outside, and yet the 2009 report contains data even for 2005, because the situation in 2009 is not necessarily linked, whether the data are comparable or not, or whether they may even be the same or not. The 2009 report was prepared on the basis of a decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space in accordance with Articles 106 and 107 of the Environmental Protection Act. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the recast of both articles should be seriously considered, since there are no valid reasons why a Ministry decision should be necessary to begin the preparation of the report, but because of the scope of the project, the work on the project reports should be carried out continuously so that a report for the next two years can be prepared immediately after the report is completed. We are confident that, despite the large part of the report's work, it is possible to prepare more quickly, through up-to-date data retrieval, all the necessary data and their analysis as quickly as possible or as quickly as possible, in the same number of employees involved. Only in this way would the most recent data and analyses be taken into account. If it turns out that the scope of work is so large that it exceeds the power of the preparers, it would also be necessary to amend the article or paragraph referring to the preparation of the report on the state of the environment every two years, thereby extending the preparation period by one year. However, we believe that this would probably not help to improve the quality of the report, but only to extend the deadline by one year. The reports, which are drawn up through the mandate of three different governments, certainly do not serve the purpose of evaluating environmental policies, but only to serve as a basis for the preparation of future strategic operational documents. The duration of the projects does not appear to have dealt with this in the mandate of 1996–2000 and 2004–2008 of the ILO at all, since it did not complete the report which received the mark for the start of the preparation with the decision of the Ministry for 1996 and 2000 nor was the decision to draw up the second report. There was obviously no interest in preparing the report! From all of this, we also have to think about whether they would not leave the preparation of the report entirely to non-governmental organisations, as it seems that the preparation of such documents is much better for them, even though they have poorer working conditions and, in particular, far more international experience. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the report has not been dealt with before the 2011-2012 budget is considered, as some of the areas covered by the report should be more cost-effectively supported by funding. Measures in the field of nature 2000 protection, park protection, soil and water protection will certainly not be enough. At the substantive level, all areas are nominally covered, but in fact we lack the most indicators for the impact of environmental pollution on human health – I think and believe in the Social Democrats Group that human health is of course the most important – the resources and use of resources to implement environmental protection policies, the impact of individual sectors on the state of the environment and the threat of protection and protection of areas. We also miss indicators of long-term trends and changes in the environment, the provision of public environmental services and the preservation of nature and water management. A certain proportion of the data comes from 2005, 2006 and 2007 and is thus obsolete and unusable. We can also think of indicators that say that the growth of the environmental impact of the economy is lagging behind in GDP growth. On the basis of everything, it is not possible to say that the state of the environment is satisfactory in 2009. It is not satisfactory in either sector. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore support the proposals of the conclusions received by the mother labour body in relation to the report. We are aware, however, that the remains or consequences of the past seventeen years, or of the lack of policies, are so large that it will be difficult to establish overnight normal conditions and the coordinated functioning of all stakeholders in this area, not just the ministries of the environment. Paradigms, a way of thinking and everything in this regard, and in particular education and changing the harsh skeleton views on the environment, will, of course, be a long process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u37	Havela beautiful. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Although there was much confusion during the Environment Minister John Sponik and his legacy was not the best passenger for his successors, the movements to the better were weak even during the time of his successors. That's why my performance will be appropriate for a short time. The quality of life of citizens depends in many ways on environmental policies, but it is true that environmental policy is too often dependent on pressures and desires whose main driver is capital interests after rapid profit, regardless of the consequences. We therefore call on the Government to follow sustainable development and its commitments, which are also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. Among other things, we expect support for the proposal for a law restricting the use of shopping bags, which is being submitted to the legislative procedure by Members and Members in the coming days. The solutions in the proposed law are meaningfully in line with the objectives of the recent successful action of the Bag on the bag. In doing so, I express my full support for civil society associations such as Economists Without Borders, Eco Circles, Umanoter, Alpe Adria Green and others. We also welcome yesterday's information, largely overlooked in the media, that Slovenian company Trimo built the world's first carbon neutral building. Such actions need an incentive from the government. However, the tireless efforts of a number of environmentally-aware individuals and associations will not fully compensate for the lack of systemic support environmental policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! My report will also be critical, but I will not name names which ministers are nice and which are not nice enough, who have done something and who have not, but I will say that today we are dealing with the first of the two reports dealing with environmental issues in Slovenia, but there is a huge difference between the two reports. Report Mirror to the Government 2010 - The Green Non-Governmental Monitor, to be discussed below, is a document of research by NGOs and covers a significantly shorter period and shows updated data over the last two years, and this is important. While the Report on the Environment in the Republic of Slovenia 2009 is a fundamental document on the state of the environment in Slovenia, with which the National Assembly is obliged to familiarise itself and adopt it under Article 106 of the Environmental Protection Act or the National Environmental Protection Programme, the Environmental Protection Act provides that the report is to be prepared every four years and that the final report on the environment has been discussed seven years ago, meaning that the report is overdue for three years. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with experts from non-governmental organisations that the seven-year period is a proposal for an effective analysis of the situation in the environment, as the situation is changing very quickly and we need as much up-to-date data as possible for appropriate action. Thus, some of the data in this report are already two years old or older, which in our view is too much given that today many environmental data can be monitored and analysed across the board. In addition to the urgency of the report, Members of the Slovenian People's Party also assess that the report is too critical and gives the impression that the situation in the environment is more or less okay. While the report highlights certain shortcomings in the implementation of environmental policy and the negative situation of some indicators, in most areas it is too loose, for example in the planning of actions for the future. Nor does the report contain a clear assessment of the implementation of environmental legislation, in particular the Environmental Protection Act, lacks an assessment on the implementation of the National Environmental Protection Programme 2005-2012, so that we do not know at all what activities have been carried out and which activities will be carried out under this programme. According to an assessment of the Union of Environmental Movements, the implementation of programmes is between 20% and 30%, and by 2012 there is only one more year, and it is also likely that the Section for Monitoring and Implementation of the Programme has not been established for another five years after the adoption of the National Environmental Protection Programme. With the assessment that the state of the environment in Slovenia is in principle good in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we cannot be satisfied. We are also skeptical of the fact that air conditions are satisfactory and data on the rise in asthma in children are given in the same breath. So something's not right here. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore miss a more thorough analysis of the impact of air pollution on human health, which we believe should contain such a report. People have the right to a healthy environment and the right to know what kind of air they breathe and to demand an environment in which they can live. The situation in Zasavje illustrates a violation of one of the fundamental constitutional rights with the blessing of the State or the competent ministry. Is such a situation satisfactory, as the report states? The air is the most polluted in cities, so it is also the responsibility of city authorities to take care of the health of their inhabitants and to think more sustainablely. While the report mentions an alarming excess of the limit values of nitrogen oxides and PM10 particles, new garages with shops are being built in the centre of Ljubljana, and it is thinking about expanding urban seizures that will attract more cars to the city, which will make the air worse. Improvements in public transport, which are both in Ljubljana and elsewhere in Slovenia in a catastrophic state, is practically no one's thinking. From the situation in Zasavje and Ljubljana, we can conclude that profit takes precedence over the health of citizens, which is unacceptable to us. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we critically assess the Environment Report 2009 in the Republic of Slovenia, because we believe that the seven-year period is too long to assess the actual state of the environment, does not contain a specific assessment of the implementation of environmental legislation, in some areas there is no clear direction for the future. We believe that the decision taken by the Committee on Environment and Space is appropriate, and we expect the Government to respect it and prepare the appropriate measures imposed on it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurša
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister and the director from his ministry, colleague and colleague! Let me begin by saying that in the Group of Members we support the conclusions adopted on the working body. The aim of the report is, according to the applicant, to improve public awareness of environmental developments, including understanding the causes and consequences, and to provide an objective assessment of the state of the environment and the basis for decision-making based on monitoring the achievement of the objectives and progress set. In order to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of environmental policy and to support decision-making, indicators were used to prepare the report, which form the basis for the analysis of the situation and the production of the assessment, which is then the basis for decision-making in the field of environmental management. The final report is that sustained economic growth is not possible due to this environmental variability. Sustainable development is possible only by taking into account the physical boundaries of the natural environment and its systematic capabilities. The environmental pressures generated by economic development require that the economic and social component of development be taken into account for sustainable planning. Sustainable development requires a balanced treatment of all three components. Most of the environmental problems facing Slovenia today are caused by energy, transport and agriculture. The largest energy users are the construction and mining industry. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, road transport, in particular freight transit, has increased significantly. Given the importance of agriculture for rural development and nature conservation, the structure of agricultural production is changing. This report also coincides with the preparation of a European report on the state of the environment. The results of the evaluations of these reports form a single basis for the preparation of the following strategic and operational documents. A new national programme for environmental protection in Slovenia will need to be prepared for the period after 2012. In our Group of Members, we note that the report should be prepared every four years in accordance with legislation. The seven-year period for which the report is being prepared is, in our opinion, too long to effectively assess the state of the environment and policy planning and to seek responsibility for inappropriate or inappropriate action. According to our assessment, the report could provide a more systematic monitoring of trends and achievement of objectives and, on the basis of this preparation, a plan of measures or additional measures to achieve the objectives. In view of some alarming environmental data, in particular noise, and partly water and air, where trends are negative, we believe that we should further strengthen the key environmental data measurement network and inform the public daily about the situation and the data. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that Slovenia will not achieve a target of 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, in spite of taking forests into account as CO2 sinks, if we are of course based on the results of the known planning measures. As regards the water quality situation in Slovenia in the parliamentary group, we believe that the reason for the decline in groundwater levels does not concern the reasons given in the report. In no way should we ignore the fact that the poor or the wrong treatment of the drainage of the meteor water that flows into the drains rather than draining into the groundwater. Reducing groundwater levels poses a threat to the provision of healthy drinking water in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, followed by the debate of MEPs and Members. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." [[She's not here.]] Easy, Jerich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Willie Rezman has another 60 seconds. [[He won't discuss it.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Daniel Krivec. [[He won't discuss it.]] Breda Pecan has the floor to prepare Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would also like to contribute to the debate in the form of my opinion on this report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. My first and fundamental comment is that it is very unusual, however, that we have succeeded in, say and write, seventeen years to prepare only three reports. If we divide 17 years into four, there should be a fourth report due to the fact that the first report should be after 1993 in 1997 and then plus four years for each period. By the way, the Government should also prepare interim reports for two years in the interim periods or the Ministry. This is because in Slovenia we carry out a series of very extensive monitoring in extremely different areas. Some monitoring has also achieved an enviable high level of reliability and quality. This is also shown by the fact that when we monitor the state of air, in particular in individual endangered areas in Slovenia, Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, Murska Sobota, Koper and Nova Gorica, we could also list where the concentrations of dust particles PM10 and PM2.5 are far across the limit. In fact, this information should, in particular, cause the alarm in our own country, not the alarm through the European Commission's action, to the public of Slovenia and through the Slovenian public. I do not think it is normal for a country that has a constitutional record that the social and legal state, which is particularly committed to the protection of human rights, has not been able, since it has started to systematically monitor or continue to systematically monitor the state of the environment, to respond to data that indicates worrying and risky developments in our environment. This is not just about air, this is also about waste management, it is about water management, which is not just because of the waste water burden – but here we have made considerable progress. At least for our local environment, I can say where we contribute quite a large amount of waste water to the sea, that we can be satisfied that we have managed with the help of the European Cohesion Fund and the country itself to achieve that we now have a functioning cleaning plant for Koper and Isola and that Piran will soon launch a fully-renewable cleaning plant. Here are some of the shifts that we can positively assess. If the report on the environment were more frequent or legally determined, if the interim reports were to come to the public, as they were intended, every two years, in between, is said between the two environmental reports, then they could not only trigger alarms, but they could eventually boast some achievements. I therefore think it is an incentive for the Minister to finally, in accordance with the National Environmental Protection Programme, set up a group that will systematically monitor movements in all the areas contained in the report and that the interim reports will also be regularly prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and will also inform the National Assembly not only of the Government, or at least of the Committee on the Environment and Space, which will then decide whether this interim report is also necessary and useful to be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly or not. I must say that it seems important to me that we have managed to reach agreement with the Government and with the leadership of the National Assembly, that both the report on the 2009 environment and the Mirror to the Government be discussed in plenary session. Why? Because, however, it is a way for the Slovenian public to get better acquainted with the situation, because I agree with my colleagues who said that 300 pages of the report with a lot of quality data, but some of them are quite shot down – I do not understand how most of the monitoring data ends in 2008, we almost do not track them from 2009. If we considered this report last year, then it would be understandable, but because we discussed it on the Committee and now in the National Assembly, I think there is something that doesn't overlap here as logically as it would be. I do not think we can now just talk about politics and only about governments in the Republic of Slovenia that do not have the right attitude towards monitoring the situation in the environment. I think that we have in the ministries and in the ministry, because this is an interdepartmental report, enough people working as public servants who have a specific field of work and who should make sure that if the Government does not detect and the Minister does not notice that something has not been done in the field to be carried out, that it is their duty – so they have a salary – so they should go to work every day and work in their place – that it is their responsibility and that it is necessary for the competent ministers and competent ministers who participate or who have to be on what is happening in their departments to ask for the name and surname of the people who have not done their tasks. If we go back: in 1996, the task was done, even a little early, because the law was being amended and the national environmental programme was being prepared at the same time. Then we move on; in 2000, nothing happened, in 2003, it was a three-year delay, something happened. In 2008, something should have happened, because there was a report in 2003, it should have happened at least in 2007 and it did not happen again. Whether the individual minister asked his officials, here all thanks and thanks to the current minister and his predecessor, after all, this report took place outside other periods. We have him today in the National Assembly. I think we should put these people together once and ask them, "Why do you get paid every month?" And that's why you have to hit the table once! Besides, we have information from the minister that he's doing this, but I think some things need to be put on the right common denominator. It's not always politics that doesn't have a proper relationship. Otherwise, I agree with the fact that we, as politicians, have a poor attitude towards the environment, that all those promises made before each election by all the parties, that none of these parties, in their mandate, or in the next or previous term, have been fulfilled. That's why we have environmental problems now. Because we simply do not keep our promises, but the commitments we have made in the framework of the European Union, which we have also adopted through our legislation, which we have drafted and adopted in the National Assembly. But I still think that this question will have to be asked once. It is nice that people who are civil servants fight for their rights and so on, but when they have to carry out their responsibility, it is important to ask whether they have one or not. In view of the information that is being circulated and of which it has already been said in the previous term that they are in the past term, we are now hearing that in the current term, public servants are also doing things in their working hours that do not belong to their job description, but are doing it for an additional profit, we have to ask how widespread this thing is. I think the Ministry of Public Administration will have to do a thorough analysis once and for all and say that that is enough. All I have to say is that no one would think that I'm criticizing just this current state. I know that this is happening, even as a mayor — that's what my coworkers refused to do, and I'm not going to say that they were my employees, because they were members of the municipal administration. But at the state level, public servants often appeared during the teaching hours and did various tasks that were outside their work area. I think it's also one of the elements of the environment and environmental protection that you might say something about. It is the fact that the time spent on outstanding jobs for the jobs we have must be 100 per cent spent, not needed for anything else. Then the environmental reports would probably be more up-to-date and more frequently carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, get Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the Director! The state of the environment in Slovenia is as it is. Certainly Slovenia is still a beautiful country. For me, the situation is not alarming, but there are many areas where more, much more concrete can be done, but there has always been and always will be. However, there are always limited resources to achieve this; on the one hand, of course, the recession has an impact on financial impacts, and the colleague has also touched the staff and here we certainly have large reserves, large resources. However, I observe and think about how we members have agreed more or less this morning on the Committee on Local Self-Government that we have endlessly many plans, projects, resolutions, reports, strategies, programmes and more, and that there is a lot of ballast. Neither the resolution nor the strategy in the history of Slovenia and mankind have saved much, but concrete actions and less bureaucracy certainly have. We are parishioners in one different position, we are working in different situations and people are evaluating us according to projects specifically implemented. You've provided water, you've restored the water network, you've got a cleaning plant, and you've taken care of the waste dumps, and these are the things that count. All of us working together at the operational level have a lot of problems with our administrative upgrade, and at the very least it's the ministry, and it's the public institutions. For us who work in practice, a bureaucratic administrative system was built on our backs. Instead of being helpful and working in harmony with our needs and expectations, a hierarchy and a system of people who think they have sat with God and that we are now the ones who have to kneel before them. For example, one of the things that certainly affects the situation in the environment is spatial acts. How quickly we change them and how hard it is to reach them! From one institution, let's say the Department of Cultural Heritage, I would expect you to get some opinions within 30, 50 days, some consensus that will allow you to fix the situation. But they're like a country in the country! These bureaucrats are not subject to any deadlines, no rules, nothing. You're begging, you're kneeling, you're calling for nothing and nothing! It takes three years to adopt a spatial plan in this country. This is a crazy long time, to a craftsman, to an investor who comes, I would like to build in accordance with all the regulations, we cannot offer locations. One part of the story. Part two of the story that we're time-consuming. In the countryside in Slovenia, half of the roads are located in private areas. Also a number of water lines, water tanks are built on such matters, and ownership is the basis of this and we have not regulated all of this in this country's legislation, so the reports, as we have before us today and we will certainly accept them, cannot solve everything. We still have a lot of work to do, but we need to start with responsibility, not just ministers, directors, but those who are heads of offices, just to think of the piles they have in their closets and drawers. Let me tell you another ridiculous case. Someone operated a small hydropower plant for a decade, then didn't extend the concession, and now that we get it, they put it at the bottom, between those deposits, and the water's already running through, over. Simple, in this administrative and bureaucratic system [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Saiovic. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Well, a report on the environment could certainly be a document on which a whole series of guidelines could also be adopted in the National Assembly, which could then focus on the implementation of both the local environment and the economy, namely energy and transport. In fact, in this report we are particularly looking at a lot of data on the state of water, soil, air and these are the indicators where we can analyze what is happening in our environment and how this reflects on all resources. The law on environmental protection has also been extremely optimistic, if I may say so. We have set ourselves many tasks, with the knowledge that many of these tasks will not be possible, even because they are too extensive, because they cannot be achieved without adequate organisation even in a period of time without adequate resources. I think that from the moment this law on environmental protection was passed, to this day many things have been done and many have been stopped. If this report serves to this end, so that we can learn a good lesson from what we need to do tomorrow, then this purpose is largely achieved and will help us to think in the future. I hope to say that the great effect was, however, also made when we started systematically to raise certain funds, mainly due to pollution. In particular, the "polluter pays" principle is one of those measures that have certainly helped us to have some systemic resources or earmarked means to ensure that some measures can be implemented effectively. Many times, however, we are then faced with the pre-dimension of a measure that then consumes too much resources, which is why the effect is smaller than it would have been. So it is also a question of the profession sometimes that we should analyse in such a way that we leave a greater impact on the profession before some political decision and as a policy we then assess whether the profession has done its job or not. Usually these steps are reversed, so that we make a political decision about something and then we listen to the critics of the profession and other interested public about what has happened. This is also one of those facts that would probably be worth studying and relying more on professional institutions and less on political decisions. One of these political decisions was certainly also that in Slovenia we have more than a third of the territory under the extremely strong control of Nature 2000. However, if we look at the report, we can still see that a certain number of bird species are falling, that some habitats are being lost, that, in fact, some effects are not being detected because of this, in an environmentally positive environment, to preserve the environment and habitats. So, where's the reason for this? It may also be that this operational programme of environmental protection, which has been adopted and the management of Natura 2000, has not yet come to life, and, on the other hand, in a specific environment where it is supposed to be in force, this regulation is causing great opposition precisely because it is very administratively taking a approach to understanding Nature 2000 and all measures that should also be implemented in practice. Many times this is an obstacle or an extension of procedures, a delay in decisions, the production of a wide variety of studies that cost a lot, and in practice we do not detect these effects because the funds were spent on creating a series of papers that could not be implemented in practice. Here we must certainly ask ourselves whether communication within the management of certain areas is sufficiently entangled both in the local environment and in the economic interest and whether it is not always repeated that someone is standing on his shore, on the other side of each other, and communicate to each other some sharp, negative thoughts that do not lead to a solution. So it will certainly be necessary to establish a mechanism that will allow for dialogue and that will lead to, above all, professional solutions, what environmental technology should we also have in our companies, how we will achieve the added value that we urgently need in order to improve the quality of life. I think that this is one big challenge for the future and that the reports will be even better in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Petan Rudolf, please. Let's get the mags ready. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. There has been a lot of talk in this report, and a lot of words have been said on the committee, when this report should be and so on. But for me, it doesn't even matter that much. The Committee on the Environment has also adopted certain decisions which are binding to some extent; as far as the Committee can take such decisions as the Ministry, these conclusions are also critical to some extent. But to me, the report is a theory, and more important to me is practice, what is actually happening in life. And I can say that Slovenia is certainly going after two tracks in this area. One track is the declaration that is still acceptable in Slovenia if we leave all the periphery around this report at the moment. But the bigger problem is in practice, it is in nature; what happens in nature in the field of the environment, how things stand there. If I mentioned the report, I would say that, as far as I am concerned, the report would not be necessary. If things were in nature, it would be in everyday life, as they should be, if everything in this regard were to be, it would be said, which offers a legal framework, if all the services were to do what is necessary, then the situation would be very satisfactory anyway. And if I go in line, what do I mean? First, I would like to say that all inspection services that are related to the environment or not work — I would hardly say that they do not have jurisdiction — or perhaps they are doing too little to take advantage of what the legislation offers them. They say, say, inspectors at each other's throats. A concrete example: there is a sea of fish in a stream, in a river, and then there are three, four, five inspectors plus the police, and they all say to each other that this is not their jurisdiction, that it is someone else's jurisdiction. When another inspector comes in an hour he says, "This is not all in my jurisdiction, this is the responsibility of someone else," and in fact it happens that the approved killing of fish, the culprit may be suspected or found, but the measures are never taken; because the inspection services do not carry out their work. Now I wouldn't go into who's to blame, why someone's to blame, but I would hope to say that legislation allows them to do so. I would say that this is more of an excuse or perhaps that the existing organisational forms, when each department covers its own inspector, are certainly one of the reasons and are not, in any way, resorientable. That's one thing. Secondly, I will mention what we discussed on the committee when we discussed the report, but it is the Inspector's decision to practically close waste landfills in Slovenia for all kinds of reasons or other reasons. Well, there the Secretary of State explained that it wouldn't be so bad that it wasn't meant for the landfills to be closed, but the first impression was that the landfill had to be closed. What is most important, however, is what has been heard in the public, what has been mentioned in the media, that the landfills will be closed and there will be some penalties for managers of these landfills. This does not seem appropriate to me, because the impression in the public was that everything was now wrong and that everything had been fine before, even though years ago, the fate of the landfills had been governed by the fates of the initiative, such or otherwise. So they were provoked or set up or whatever their operation would be — I wouldn’t go behind it. The fact is that fate was decided on the street, where concerned landowners, where the landfill was located, solved the problem of landfilling on the street. Whether they got satisfactory answers or not, I don't know, but this way you can't work. Now I don't criticize the people who protested and demanded answers, but there's obviously something wrong with the system. It was fitting that this area was regulated by civil initiatives. How to solve a problem there is probably familiar to everyone; where people are concerned about each other who ask each other questions and want an answer and, of course, no answer is good enough and of course no one can answer or can answer it either because he does not have all the information or all the powers. Well, now all of a sudden, decisions are coming out, and that's a good month after the local elections, and now let the newly elected new or old mayors handle matters as they know and know. It reminds me a little of some political action, I hope I'm wrong, but that's what some others think. Is it true that, as it is called, some pressure has been put on these landfills to make arrangements, especially where landfills have been built to perform any additional functions that will take care of environmental protection where it is not, but why has it not been arranged six months earlier? I'm afraid there was a fear of any mayor who gave him a decision at this point, and they weren't able to do it before the elections, not a year before the elections. But now it's four years before the new elections, and it's a little different. There has also been a lot of talk on the Committee on the Environment, so I would not repeat it now, but I am sure that this is not a good way. If there have been problems with these landfills, then this should be regulated and threatened, if I can use this term, by inspection, but not now a campaign for all landfills at once. There are probably bigger problems in some landfills than others, and now throwing everything into the same basket, I don't think so. But well, every stick, every threat has a certain positive effect. So I'm gonna be an optimist, and I'm gonna take this from this side. The other thing is, release CO2. Most of these releases, if I subtract industrial facilities, are due to traffic of about 40% of all CO2 emissions. This is also a known information and since Slovenia is also a transit country for trucks, even this percentage may be slightly higher in us. Certainly, Slovenia is also one of the countries where personal cars are huge, so they are also extremely hot. It is interesting, as one of the colleagues mentioned earlier today, that garage houses are being built in cities, but it is almost done to improve public transport. You will probably remember that we have already proposed twice or three times in the Slovenian Democratic Party to extend certain bus routes to the suburbs or to those suburban municipalities, but we have never succeeded. This proposal of ours has always been rejected if it isn't perfect, that it's not like a whole or something. Yes, what is more positive for the environment than if the bus route of urban transport can be extended to the suburbs, or that those citizens who have a job in the city, specifically in Ljubljana, have to drive their car along these busy roads. That's what you say. It doesn't work together. This is the government's true policy, because we're not here for one resort, we have to admit, at least two or three are such that either they don't see it or they don't want it, or they can't, because lobbying is so powerful. Now I don't know which lobby: either the one building the garage house, or the one selling petrol, or the bus lobby to keep the monopoly going. Something doesn't really work, and that's the kind of duality I'm talking about. What I think is most worrying is that our civil society, which also includes the profession, has been opposed to the construction of wind power plants for 10 years. None of the locations are good enough, none of them are far enough apart, each of them has some problems, some of them are birds that, according to hunters, are long gone and some of the areas are some of the bugs that live in the ground. That's what happened. We also discussed this on the Committee on the Environment when I led it. The man simply does not understand what is wrong with wind power plants in Slovenia, but if it is in Germany, when there was also a green-red coalition in power, when they were green, those who care about the environment were in power, they built over 20,000 wind power plants in Germany in four years. They were also built in such areas where I might have wondered whether it really made sense. In Denmark, the Netherlands, they build offshore, in the sea, in the sailing sea, they build wind power plants because there is a wind zone. But we can't have it in an area where there's no settlement 10 kilometers around, there's no house. That's worrying to me. But this is the purest energy, and the whole world is using it, and technology is moving on. The other thing I'm worried about is that this very civil society, this green profession, is opposed to building hydroelectric power plants on Mura. At the same time, electricity would meliorate the area, save flood security – but no! Even so far as we're concerned, our Greens are drawing their colleagues from all over Europe, and they're running around Mura, protesting how we can't have hydroelectric power plants built on Mura. Yes, please! It's already bordering on something else, sabotage. Next thing you know, I'm not going to say that it's a civil initiative, but I'm going to say that the country that stopped or very slowed down the construction of hydro power plants on the bottom of the Sava. Everything has practically stopped, the only one that is already half built is supposed to be upgraded, but as far as the data shows, at a slow pace, and one even asks if there are some, I don't know, lizards or butterflies or anything. That's what they say. It's just an excuse not to do anything. And hydropower is one of the purest energies, where buildings can also be built in greater power, while winds are smaller, but hydropower plants on the lower Sava have significantly greater power and are economically viable. On the other hand, I must say that I was surprised that these environmentalists, environmentalists, were very slow in the construction of thermal power plants. I don't want anyone to think that I'm opposed to the Chestnut Power Plant. Far from it! But I don't understand that they're much less environmentally friendly than hydropower or wind power plants. That's what bothers me. I don't mind if they build it for me. However, why are they so loud at wind power plants, and here, for example, they are surprised to find that they did not know that a building permit had already been issued. That surprises me. I say again; I have no objection to the construction of this, but those who consider themselves environmentalists, who are supposed to be environmentalists, have such a double relationship. But that bothers me, whether they're too loud or too quiet in there, it doesn't matter to me after all. We shouldn't actually say anything there, but we should say hello if wind power plants and hydropower plants are being built. But if they have any other concerns here, they can be quiet here. It is not understandable, however, that the thermal power plants are quiet, but they are so loud there, and they are talking about some bugs that live in the earth and that windstorm that will swing 15 times a minute will disturb those bugs in the earth. That's not understandable. And that the gap between practice and declaration in Slovenia is so great, I would only remind them that it was these Slovenian environmentalists who were so excited about protecting the environment that even Kyoto was too tight for them. Kyoto was too ambitious, 3 times 20 were too small for them, we would want more and we would also take some conclusions to impose an even greater obligation. We've accepted that, too, but the devil is in detail. I'm afraid the devil took the joke and now we're paying for that simple Kyoto because we don't meet the conditions, we're already fined for CO2 emissions. If they demanded even more, these penalties would be even greater. We don't do enough to reduce these releases. I mentioned this traffic earlier, where we're working in the opposite direction. In electricity generation as well as in reverse direction. And I'm not going to mention the object again, but in general, I'm talking because CO2 emissions are not going to get out. But where we could gain energy to alleviate this situation a little bit, we were either late there or we stayed. This incompatibilities between the declaration and practice is likely to hit us even harder in the future, because there will be more penalties for environmental problems, both for CO2 emissions and other things, river protection and the like. In fact, there will be some fines from Brussels, and we will have some penalties in this form, that we will have polluted water, that we will have polluted groundwater, that we will have polluted land and, of course, on this earth and in this environment, that food is growing in this water, which we then enjoy. This will be the indirect punishment that we will receive directly, without punishment from Brussels. Clearly, it is only when someone writes us an account, a note, or something like that; in fact, we see it. What we do in everyday life, we eat, we hear, we hear noise — and that somehow doesn't catch up with us. I would not even criticize this report if it was too late, nor would I criticize it because it is too professional on so many sides and too professionally, since it is also professional here. I would criticise more what is not written in the report, but it happens in practice. Because that's what we hit, and that actually hurts us every day. But there are things that we could do with a little good will. I will only mention once again the extension of the city bus routes to the suburban municipalities. This would do much to reduce CO2 emissions and transport-related particulate matter. Nothing is done here, and it's even going in the opposite direction. We're defending ourselves against all kinds of weights to extend a line. But if we're gonna make it, it's either a miracle or something. We should pay more attention to what is happening in practice in this report. Let the report be just as a basis, some guidance for our work, and as a mirror of what is happening to us. I have nothing against the report, and I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Dr. Peter Verlich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Vito Rozej. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Andrej Magajna. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Lois Posedel. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Friday Miro. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. From a rather broad and comprehensive point of view or view of our Group of Members on this report, it has been clear and stated that our criticism was not criticism, but focused on clearly set goals and proposals, how and how to address the following new reports. Because each report is not just about making it easy, putting it in folders and then storing it among some stakeholders who will discuss it, simply writing it down and then going back to the folders and handing it over. In particular, these reports need to be looked back, see trends, detect trends, positive and negative. Unfortunately, over the past 17 years, we have found that, according to the indicators, these trends are worse and are not commendable, that we should carefully review and see how and how we set our goals long ago in 1993, when we passed the Environmental Protection Act and thus all other laws and regulations. How we've done some things. It is also critical to say that we have missed some things conceptually. This does not mean that we will now cut our heads off, but we will have the opportunity to think clearly about what we can do in the next five years to make environmental policy, the policy of environmental protection somehow focus on the right tracks. We wouldn't talk too much about concepts right now, but if we go to waste disposal policies and, last but not least, waste collection and separation, how Slovenia and the local communities decided, and what municipalities they would buy. At that time, while in good faith to promote entrepreneurship, each congregation could go to the purchases of various containers from different manufacturers, and none of them did so to make these containers transparent, for example, and to find out for reasons of transparency and see that it is important that this is the way to raise all those who separate the waste so that they cannot make a mistake. But well, this is one of the concepts that was wrong, probably not the only one, forerunners have already said a number of other things. I must say that I have often been disturbed by the claim that only capital is responsible for the state of environmental impacts. I'm not saying it isn't. I'm not someone to defend capital in every way I can. But capital has its legitimacy and this capital works and operates in its own way and seeks its best effects. It is a matter of state, it is a matter of government, it is a matter of all previous ministries and, last but not least, of local communities to prepare appropriate measures, regulations, regulations and laws so that this capital will also work in the public interest. However, this is very important in the field of environmental policy. In particular, there are many stakeholders here, and if we look at how the polluted environment has a major impact on human health and how little we have discussed in the sectoral policies and how little we have negotiated among the various stakeholders, from the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, and how little, for example, we have negotiated among the various stakeholders, from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture, and I think that this is where the issue lies. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Žarnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Let me just start with one point. I can't say anything but agree with most of you in most things, which I have come to this conclusion myself in the last year. And Mr Petan said nicely: the gap between practice and theory. Clear! I find that our society or system, and this also applies to the world system, since I have returned from Cancun, does not have the appropriate instruments to effectively turn theory into practice. And I'm not gonna say why. It's been a long time. Contradictory matters are also taking place. Like, a power plant. I had a meeting with NGOs where there was someone at the same end who stood up for wind power plants and someone who saw obstacles for other reasons. I told them to make a deal with each other so I could do something. That's like a comment. As for the report, I am proud that, after so many years, the report is before you in my mandate. I am also glad that my predecessor in 2009 found that such a report had been missing for a long time, and he made himself work with his fellow workers – one of the most deserving of this report being made, is here with me. We know that the report is full of gaps, shortcomings, perhaps inconsistencies, but in view of the data available by the end of 2008. These are in the 2009 report based on the methodology for the 2010 report for the European Union. I also think that the approach to such reporting is outdated. Today we are in the period of information, one hundred and fifty indicators can be monitored daily, "up date", on the websites of ARSO, www.arso.si! ARSO issues periodic thematic reports on water in Slovenia, air quality in Slovenia. We have a monthly magazine of the Environment and a place where we publish some things. I think that these reports will be slightly different, for two years we will choose and analyse what continues to occur on pages where each of you, every citizen at home or anywhere on the ground can read about the state of us. There are also some things that are alarming and will also be highlighted. It is said that reporting will be more effective in the future also due to the quality technologies that have been made available to us. So I hope that those who report to you in 2012 will be easier to work than I am, and probably those Members who will be more pleased then. About the world's problems, Cancun, bad messages. Yes, we were all disappointed, we were all happy that at five in the morning we managed to draw somehow a common line, that at least it succeeded, although Bolivia wanted to make even more extreme demands, but somehow we understood it, but some basic denominator was made. Clearly, there is a problem here with China and the United States, President Obama, despite the best of his will, cannot come through his parliament to bring matters to a more world-friendly place. I would very much welcome Mrs Pecan's findings on personnel, but you know, in managing systems such as ministries, with such rewards and such burdens after twelve hours a day, the enthusiasms will run out very quickly. I think there's a crisis in managing and rewarding leadership. But that's my conclusion. I've also made up my mind and vouched for my own, but I don't think you can get high-quality executives, directors of directorates for free. Civil society representatives are certainly invited, welcome, we want their participation in the production of reports, but look at the fraction, their response to this report has been more than silent in public treatment. They are very loud, as has been said, in certain cases, but when something needs to be done more constructively, sometimes there is a problem. But we work, we work together. A member of my cabinet, Albin Keuc, once very active at Greenpeac, is the one who communicates with us, and so far this thing is kind of moving on. The problem of other politicians is essential. Our Commissioner Potočnik tried to take his new path in the next period of funding European environmental programmes in order to be responsible for environmental policies, including transport, energy, agriculture and others. Slovenia strongly supports it, I have recently been on the round table, we have continued and concluded in a few days, but it shows that we are the only country in Europe that supports such a new policy. I have taken a strong stand for the regions of soft, transitional borders and regional financing, not state funding. That would be good for Slovenia, because we're in three regions, by the way, but somehow that incarceration, I won't say egoism, prevails. These are problems of a global approach to environmental protection. Here I have to commend Slovenia, as far as I have seen, as long as I have had time to read various statistics, we are very much at the top, among the first 10% of the world's countries for environmental care and environmental preservation. We can be proud of this, but this does not mean that we must give up and say that we are good and that we do not have to do much more. I think that in Slovenia we should have a smart energy policy and ask ourselves, do we need a lot of power plants that are burdening the environment to produce 5% of energy, or do we need a factory that burns 12% of energy, rather shut down. These are environmental issues for me. I'm not saying we don't need energy, but we also have a lot to do to reduce energy consumption. I mean, this would be kind of my view of your discussions right now. I'm afraid I didn't go into the details enough. But I can say something later, but if I say so: I thank you, as I understand it, for supporting what we are trying to achieve. These comments will serve us, and they will be of great benefit to us in the future, for which we will work. And we'll keep you informed. I am also thinking that maybe those printed publications that appear in some copies could be presented here in a suitable place to look at them. Well, these won't be formal half-year reports, they'll be more or less frequent, but pretty enough materials. And I'm also asking you to visit our pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This concludes the general debate on the Environment Report 2009 in the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly has received a proposal for a decision that has not been tabled by amendments, so we will decide on the draft decision tomorrow, as part of Thursday's vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the time of the day, this is a 2010 government report – a Green Non-Governmental Monitor. The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development. In order to further explain the report, I give the floor to the Director of Mags. Look at the ogrelec. Mrs. Ogorec, if you'd like to speak for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u56	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, President. On behalf of the team that prepared this report. A team of dozens of non-governmental organisations and experts participated. First of all, I welcome the interest, which is already the third Review Report to the Government, which we have prepared, but for the first time, that we have had the opportunity to present it both on the committee and that we are now presenting it in the Plenary Assembly I appreciate that this is a good progress, that the legislative institution which pays great attention to the process of enacting laws gives us an opportunity to look at how it is to implement this legislation, both European and our own national, and that the National Assembly recognises this function. In response to the constructive nature of the non-governmental green sector, only this would say that Mirroring the Government is one small activity in a very wide range of activities of NGOs, many of which are also very proactive, positive, especially in the field of education, awareness-raising and capacity-building. I'm not going to go into the details of the report. I hope you've all received it in print in the autumn, in its summary. It's all posted online. But I'd like to give just a few key points and maybe some context. In this report, where there are 49 indicators monitoring the implementation of legislation and also programme commitments to which Slovenia has committed itself in 14 areas, not only these typical environmental ones – the ministers' comment or the proposal by Dr. Potočnik that other departments also focus on this issue is very much on the ground, so that not only the Ministry of Environment and Space is under our mirror, but also other departments. The general conclusion confirms the already well-known fact that the gap between the objectives and commitments on paper and actual practice is considerable and that it is actually unacceptable. When looking at specific areas, especially transport, energy and environmental management systems, Slovenia is also far behind in waste, air quality, transition to sustainable agriculture, climate change, although in the last year we have seen more favourable trends due to the economic crisis by indicators, but for wrong reasons, not because of proactive measures, but because of the economic crisis. Incentive results or movements are particularly welcome in the field of public administration, an example of the adoption of an action plan for green procurement and a regulation in preparation, including in the granting of environmental permits to industrial plants, although we know that this issue of licences was also under threat from the European Commission. And in some other areas, for example, water quality due to an increase in the number of cleaning plants, which is due to European legislation and standards and the upcoming national climate strategy and law. It is precisely with regard to the European Commission's threat that I think it is sad, if not unacceptable, that the European Commission must warn us not to implement legislation and act on the basis of these procedures, the type of which is open and threatens the country already in many areas of sanctions. The only comprehensive mechanism we have in this country has been envisaged in the National Environmental Protection Programme, which provides for one table which is included in the report on the state of the environment previously presented in the previous item, and unfortunately this table does not fulfil its function. In fact, if you have looked closely at this table, you will notice that out of 188 measures there are only 14 listed statuses. To conclude, let me just say that I expect the protection of the environment to be reduced to one higher level in Slovenia, because it will no longer be recognized as a threat to jobs and economic development, but that a great opportunity will be recognized for both climate-energy themes and environmental protection in general for greater competitiveness, green jobs and, of course, higher quality of environment and life, and this is a new generation of environmental protection and themes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ogorec. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I must thank the authors of this report, which is extremely definitively prepared, in the insatiable reference of some things, but in the form of good summaries. I also see that they have also taken into account some of the data from the ADR, which shows that somehow they also recognise the credibility of our data. In addition, there are particularly interesting indicators with those icons that display outstandingly well and understandably show where things need to be improved. I am also pleased that they understand this support for our Commissioner in Europe's efforts to think differently. I must say that, within our government, I will somehow advise my fellow ministers, asking them to behave ourselves in the sense of this new thinking, because I am counting that when such an idea comes in such a large system, it takes some time to inducing enough energy for a new approach. That is why I am also an optimist here, because on the regional principle of environmental conservation we are very well involved both in the Alpine area and in the Danube and the Sava subsystem, both now in the future Adriatic, also dinar and somehow the origins of this new policy are reflected in practice. I can say that even practice in some areas is also more rapid than the practice of a larger system, such as the European Union, that I am not talking about the whole world. I'm optimistic about environmental trends. We certainly always stress that environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental co-existence, an economy that is environmentally friendly, is also an opportunity, as we see in many of our parks where these activities are already visible. This Parliament can be proud that after many years it has also adopted the Law on the Triglav National Park, where many ideas can be implemented and proved useful at some time. That is the way it is possible in this area, but on the other hand we must be careful not to do more harm to all these activities with excessive environmental requirements and, as Mr Petan has said here, with some illogicalities. We must behave in a balanced manner, have environmental protection and industry and human activities. It is, as it is well said, to live somehow in a sonar way, but also to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I give the floor to the president, Mrs. Brady Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Environment and Space considered the Report 2010 at its 21st meeting on 2 September. The report, as we have already heard, was prepared by Umanoter, Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development, in collaboration with partners from Plan B for Slovenia in August 2010. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Transport, Defence, Ministry of Education and Sport, Economics, Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, Ombudsman of Human Rights, Omanotere, Slovenian E-Forum, CIPRA Slovenia, Institute for Sustainable Development, Society for the Observation and Study of Birds of Slovenia and Focus, Society for Sonar Development. As a material for the discussion, the Committee received a draft Survey Report for 2010 by letter on 29 July this year and a summary of the report prepared in August 2010 was published at the Committee meeting. In the presentation of the Report Mirror to the Government 2010 are representatives of the Umanoterna, Slovenian Foundations for Sustainable Development, mag. Vida Ogorelec Wagner and Gaja Brecelj were initially told that they had prepared this report for the third time in cooperation with other NGOs this year. The report is prepared and carried out in order to determine how the country is concerned about the implementation of the principles of sustainable development in the various sectors. This time, fourteen reports were monitored on a total of ninety selected indicators, which fall within three sets: transition to a low-carbon society and climate change, sustainable management of natural resources and horizontal areas. With this report, they want to encourage government authorities to better implement political commitments, which would reduce the implementation deficit. In the debate, the members of the Committee felt that the report and the presentation were well prepared, but they lacked proposals for improving the situation. They also miss a comparison with the monitoring reports and reports that have been prepared so far, so that they can get an overview of the situation for a longer period, for example for a decade. It would be useful and important to establish cooperation between all stakeholders and promote dialogue that might be more intense and multi-layered. Given that people are becoming increasingly aware and more critical and considerate of the shortcomings, much more concrete and intensive team work will be needed in this area, as well as a sense of responsibility and responsibility for decision-making. We have very rich legislation and we need to look at how and how the commitments made are realised. If, at all stages of the drafting of legislation, like the Aarhus Convention, all stakeholders in the area, in particular at the level of the local community, were to be more actively involved, they could avoid much conflict and opposition. The Committee on Environment and Space therefore proposed to the National Assembly that the 2010 Report should be placed in one of the meetings, today, and adopted a decision proposing to the Government a series of measures and activities to improve the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to our guests, Mrs Ogorelchevi, the minister and to all who are interested in this problem – but apparently not so many in the National Assembly – what NGOs think. That's not why. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we feel it is good that government environmental policy is sometimes set by the non-governmental sector. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome today's consideration of the environmental report prepared by the Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development of Umanoter. The key finding of Umanotera is the first proposed decision to note that the implementation of environmental and sustainable development alliances and legislation is not satisfactory and that the worst situation is particularly in the field of transport, energy and waste management systems and that we are still rapidly losing the best agricultural land. Of course, there is not much to add to this, because it is simply true. In the LDS we find that in Slovenia, the environment has not yet become a fundamental foundation and framework with clear marginal development conditions, but is mainly an obstacle to the unbridled, vote of investors and the current coloured interests. This is particularly significant in recent years when we are facing an economic crisis in Slovenia. However, there is no better way for the country to act in some self-critical way, since the 2010-2020 Action Plan for Renewable Energy, for example, has not been judged environmentally. The European Commission has been sent as a commitment by our country, with the pretext that a new national energy programme will be judged environmentally. There is a logical question of how, in practice, we can have an action plan with concrete environmental implications, which is a hierarchically lower act than a national programme. The question is further raised whether it is even appropriate to raise the issue of transport, i.e. areas where we do not respect our own commitments under the operational programmes for reducing emissions. If we wanted to be very visible, we could say that we have, in particular, the Ministry of Road Construction and not the Ministry responsible for an integrated transport policy, which is also a key part of environmental policy. In short, the individual ministerial departments of our joint and thus not taking their environmental commitments as their problem, but consider it only and only as a problem of the Ministry of Environment and Space, a problem which should be solved in the interest of everyone there far beyond Bezigrad. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree that one of the main challenges of today's time is already the presence and inevitable climate change and the transition to a so-called low-carbon society. It is also true that our measures so far to reduce greenhouse gases and to adapt to climate change are not sufficient or satisfactory. We also find it difficult to agree that important progress is only an envisaged consideration of the proposal for a law on climate change, as it is an important part of the professional public's opinion that we may not need it at all, that we need more than the law we need to do and implement consistently the laws already adopted, other rules and, above all, our own commitments. In the future, more attention should also be paid to regulating waters, watercourses and shores and to ensuring public involvement in decision-making in this area. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as far as this area is concerned, we believe that there has been significant progress in this area, and we welcome this progress. There is a wide public involvement in the process of producing water management plans, certainly as never before. There may be some other water conference that will soon take place, according to our information. It is also true that we are seriously behind everything and that we have already received reminders from the European Union or the European Commission. Unfortunately, however, there is little progress in ensuring the good ecological condition of our waters and improving or maintaining good, quality drinking water that we would like. Therefore, in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we could also add a relatively slow solution to the problem of over-fertilisation in certain areas of agriculture, and perhaps a fresh topic, a biogas plant issue, even in the light of the 2010-2020 Action Plan for Renewable Energy, which was not judged. In our parliamentary club, we have been drawing attention for many years to the problem of reducing agricultural land, which is linked to the declining trend in our food self-sufficiency. We therefore support the conclusions of the proposed decision. We add, however, our modest view that in the new financial perspective a radical transformation in the country's subsidy policy needs to be achieved. In particular, subsidies should promote sustainable and nature-friendly agriculture, with appropriate and financially strong measures in the second pillar. Cooperation between both the agricultural and environmental sectors will therefore need to be strengthened. 5. The decision correctly highlights, in our view, the personal responsibility of citizens and citizens in the field of waste management. As a rule, only problems at systemic and institutional level are always exposed, and rarely major problems at source, that is in households. And it's time that maybe tonight when we get home, we look at what actually ends up in our dumpsters, and what should be the end of everything else. Nevertheless, the latest developments in this area, the accelerated operation of inspection services, lead to the right goals that we all want to draw out of waste, of course, of what is useful, the need for renewable raw material and to put away what is necessary in landfills, which will certainly be a limited number in Slovenia, with a clear commitment and a logical, smart thinking that open wounds in nature, where we still have space, are being filled and then completely repaired. That is why we believe that there is still a lot of room and opportunity for action in the field of education, public awareness of sustainable waste management. Finally, it will also be necessary to initiate a consistent sanctioning of poor and ineffective practices in households, as everyday life shows that many times only the root is not enough. The issue of urban air pollution, particularly the problem of particulate matter, is also an interesting one, certainly environmentally sound treatment. This becomes one of the major environmental problems in Slovenia in major cities, so in the LDS we warn us that if our city authorities do not accelerate the adoption and implementation of measures to reduce urban air pollution, we will be forced to do so by the penalties of the European Commission. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport should prepare and start implementing a new transport policy, one of the key foundations of which should also be a policy to reduce pollution by particulate matter and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. As we have already said, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the treatment of this green NGO monitor. Indeed, a mirror is being placed for all environmental policy holders in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the appearance in the mirror is not the most beautiful, so we have already expressed our concern, the fear that we will probably only be forced to take action by the European Commission at a time of recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Solidarity Group, we have been paying attention to what the Government has to say about itself through the report through which it presents itself, but also to the extent of a somewhat more modest report, which is called the Mirror, which was prepared by NGOs or so-called civil society. I refer to this civil society mainly because, a few minutes ago, it was heard by the Minister, that it was often contradictory and that, with regard to the report prepared by the Government, it was somewhat silent. As far as contradiction is concerned, it is unlikely that the Ministry of Environment and Space is to place itself on one side or the other, but to implement measures that are correct and to implement the measures set out in the programmes, the action plans set out in the laws, etc. As far as civil society, non-governmental organisations are concerned, it is again possible to consider any action even brutal, when, for example, it is turned around by buying manure or pouring manure in the fields, demonstrative, but it could be a bit overwhelming if it were not for this mirror and would not show the right image. However, I and our Solidarity Group believe that this mirror, which is not as definitive as it was said, has put the mirror on the right end and has shown the results that we can all agree to be the right indicators. And the Committee on the Environment and Space also concluded very similar. The Minister liked icons there on the third or fourth page and therefore mentioned them. But it's these icons that say that this mirror's response is not milky. I took a quick look at what it says, and I found that in the case of an evaluation of more than a dozen areas, we could not find any area that would be considered good. If this is too cumbersome, then it can only be changed in different words, but the content will leave the same: we have no good areas. That's what those icons say. It's nine areas that are rated bad. I don't think it's too tight either, but it's a critical assessment that she needs to listen to. There are only five such areas that are considered satisfactory. However, satisfactoryly, it is not exactly the highest grade that we should be very proud of. It would also be interesting to say in which areas: water, industrial pollution, international cooperation and more or less potential green procurement of our administration. Moreover, as far as industrial pollution is concerned, it may or may not be more likely that the current situation in the world, in the economy, is due to a conscious environmental policy. What else does this report, called the Mirror, tell us? He says we have bad trends. Two which are deteriorating, i.e. two negative trends in key areas: energy, sustainable energy use and sustainable mobility or transport, as we will call it. That this is justified because it is a mirror that shows the gap between government declarations and their actions, it is understood from several examples. Remember, for example, the areas of renewable energy. Let's think about how, let's say, there's no way we can put the necessary infrastructure for a transverse hydropower plant, the Kozjak accumulation hydropower plant, for example, into space, which is a very necessary investment. Let us remember how we cannot complete and exploit the energy potential of the Sava River. Let us remember what measures the Ministry has taken and what protests it has experienced with regard to small hydropower plants. Let's remember what turns, jumps, escapades the Ministry started with regard to photovoltaic power plants, that even those who really know about it didn't know what it was. I don't think these criticisms are so milky, they're pretty sharp, and they're also appropriate. Let us remember how we do nothing in the field of energy efficiency, so to speak. What we have in our budgets is the beginnings that will not change much, and thank God that we have at least some beginnings ready. Let us recall the already mentioned delay in the energy programme, which, apparently, already exists in some drawers, but we cannot see it yet and simultaneously overtaking, perhaps, the construction of thermal power plants. Consider, for example, the delay in banning motor vehicles in the natural environment. More than protests, more than environmental damage, more than damage to tourism, the government or the ministry responds more silently. And in the end, we saw, just recently, that even what they've been doing all year now, they've put off because they found that they don't have a legal basis for what they're doing. So, these kind of criticisms are justified, and I think they weren't very milky, unless someone wants to judge, that's what was said today, things like a half-empty glass. And he says thank God, we're proud to have a report, even though it's a three- or four-year delay. So this is some alibi that's not best for a job that hasn't been done in time and properly. There are, of course, many reasons why we have such a bad condition. They concern the economy, they concern the public administration, they concern us who adopt more or less inadequate legislation, and they concern us all in our everyday life, in which we do not want to give up anything and we want to live by old patterns, which go beyond the bearable capacity of the Earth and which go beyond what we are capable of and which nature itself is able to regenerate. That is why, on our part, by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Solidarity, this mirror has shown the true picture and we think it is right to say at the end what the purpose was, at least so the authors wrote: it was not the intention of destructive criticism, but a critical assessment of what the Government was able to do in the first half of the mandate, and thus also an incentive to do something else in the second half of the mandate. Something very large, which would have a beneficial, positive impact on the situation in the environment and processes, and I'm afraid, is running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well-known Minister with colleagues and representative Omanotere! Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased to welcome the third time that environmental NGOs have prepared the Survey to the Government. For the first time, the National Assembly took advantage of the opportunity for its presentation and consideration, this time in connection with the consideration of the Environmental Report in the Republic of Slovenia in 2009, of course at the initiative of the Committee on the Environment, in particular Breda Pecan and Silva Črnugelj. The report Mirror to the Government of Environmental NGOs is described by content, but quite well reflects the unenviable state of the environment in our country, in particular in 14 areas, some of which are rated satisfactory and most do not reach the minimum standards. If we quickly list all the areas and assessments of the situation they have received, we see that the situation in the area of national transition frameworks is poor, with a positive trend. In the area of adaptation to climate change, although greenhouse gas emissions have decreased, generally as well as to the unit of product, due to the economic crisis. In the area of sustainable energy – bad, with a negative trend. In the area of sustainable mobility – very bad, with a negative trend. In the area of water protection as a strategic source – satisfactory but without positive trends – this is only due to lowering the burden of water from economies or increasing the number of cleaning plants; in the area of sustainable agriculture, it is poor. In the area of the handling of genetically modified organisms, it is only because the law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants has enabled us to confirm enough broad protection zones to distinguish genetically modified plants from other growth. In nature conservation — bad, waste management — bad, no change, in air quality — is very bad. With a positive trend in industrial pollution – satisfactory but no movement for the better. NGOs view the state of implementation of the national environmental protection programme as poor, with a positive trend in environmental protection in the context of development cooperation as satisfactory, with a positive trend. While the state of look given by the public administration with its conduct is just as satisfactory, with a positive trend. Satisfying the state of public administration in regulation, in particular the adoption of an action plan for green public procurement, and the fact that giving looks like a relatively new thing and will make it more difficult to upgrade and upgrade it in the future. The indicators of each area reflect an even worse situation. The words that most exclaim from the report are "weak, stagnation", sometimes in conjunction with the word and the word "positive trend". However, it should be pointed out here that these trends are weak and will turn in a negative direction under the pressure of unforeseen unforeseeable events, if the interest in the right decisions is not accelerated in the responsible places, at the same time that the manoeuvre will continue to decline in the future due to resources. If I sum up, there are truly positive results in the field of horrifyingly few, according to the environmental report. Already in the report on the state of the environment in 2009 there was a talk on the need for greater funding for specific areas. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are fully aware that there will be fewer resources in the near future in general. As a rule, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have found that there will be a need to think carefully about the priorities to be given a greater share of the funds. There is a possibility that there will not even be enough money for some sectors to be held by force at least. In view of the inevitable lack of resources, the so-called implementation deficit will need to be reduced through non-financial measures. In this light, reducing the gap between the objectives set in the area of adaptation to climate change will be even more difficult as adaptation measures relate to all other environmental areas. The demands of the international community are clear, but their implementation in the circumstances of the local economic crisis seems increasingly realistic. On the other hand, environmental protection is still recognised as an obstacle to economic development, economic activity or industry, which somehow has no space in our minds of a wider circle of producers, as well as of competent government services. We cannot possibly realise that this is also the opening up of new green jobs and much more. Let me also point out before the end that this report is not complete either, and that you are indeed in the Group of Social Democrats, but indeed, we want to address the report with all the fresh information that such reports must contain and this mirror to the Government. The situation as noted in the report is unfortunately due to insufficient work in all seventeen years since the Law on Environmental Protection has been in force. In order to remedy this situation, it will take at least five years to work, and it will take a solid one. In the hope that they will be realized, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the conclusions voted at the meeting of the parent working body and hope that the Green Policy will also be a challenge for all economic operators in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! Report Mirror to the Government 2010 – The Green Non-Governmental Monitor was prepared in a non-governmental organisation of Umanoter and partners in the Plan B network for Slovenia. The situation for 14 observed areas is reported. It has already been addressed by the Committee on Environment and Space, where it has been assessed as well prepared. However, for future reports, a proposal has been made to complement them with proposals for improving the environment and with comparisons with the results of the monitoring already carried out so that we can understand the trend for a longer period of at least ten years. As the Aarhus Convention has been said, an ever-increasing awareness-raising and awareness-raising civil sphere of society needs to be increasingly involved in environmental issues. Proposals for individual chapters were put forward in the debate, namely, railway networks and public transport resources need to be modernised for sustainable mobility. In the case of water supply, the implementation of municipal plans for better drinking water supply and waste water disposal should be accelerated. In the case of sustainable agriculture, there is a major problem of agricultural land cultivation, which should be targeted and addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Sustainable energy supply: ambitious plans of a low-carbon society must be implemented, transport flows optimized and energy rehabilitation of buildings must be pursued. Installation of watercourses and hills. Immediate action is needed to ensure flood safety. Waste management. The poor situation needs to be addressed by raising public awareness and building regional waste management centres that need to eliminate the majority of secondary raw materials, energy products and compost materials in order to minimise the need for waste disposal areas. Dust particles are a problem, namely PM10 and even smaller PM5. The Government and the National Assembly should encourage urban authorities to accelerate the implementation of pollution reduction measures. Industrial pollution. The government should encourage the transition to more friendly technologies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess the report as being properly and qualitatively prepared. However, we cannot help but feel that in some cases it is too critical; in some cases it does not touch some areas at all, but it poses a great threat to those indicators. Energy orientations suggest that the situation in the next report can only deteriorate. Megalomaniac energy projects will spend all resources and human potential to the detriment of green technologies and renewables. The backlog in the modernisation of the rail network and poorly organised public transport also cannot contribute to the improvement of the situation for a future report. More and more frequent warnings from Brussels and, above all, increasingly vocal civil society indicate that the environment in Slovenia is serious and the government does not have the right answers to the challenges. The right to a healthy environment is inseparable. Public information and integration in environmental decisions are the requirements of the Aarhus Convention. Despite constant and increasingly serious warnings, however, there is no movement in the departmental ministries. Ministers are coming and going in the middle of a mandate, which is not good for some longer-term action. Increasingly unhealthy, the environment is also showing an increasing incidence of diseases resulting from unhealthy environments. It is also unacceptable that the whole areas of Slovenia, and especially the larger cities, where the environment is significantly worse than elsewhere. However, these areas continue to be built, which will only make the environment worse. We accept the report as one of the indicators of what else needs to be done to improve the environment so much at the right time that we do not suffer harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Vida Ogorelec Wagner, nice to meet you. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we really believe that the consideration of the reports of NGOs, mainly led by Omanotera, with the title Mirror to the Government, and probably also with the subtitle Mirror to the National Assembly, is that this report is, in fact, of a historical significance in this sense – in my opinion – that we have this time on our hands and that we are considering for the first time the report, in this case the state of the environment, of an NGO. We have had many reports prepared by various institutions, but all these institutions are more or less connected with the Government, with state institutions, and this time we do have a report prepared by NGOs. From this point of view, we believe that the Committee on Environment and Space, which first considered this report and at the same time adopted the conclusion that it, together with the report on the state of the environment prepared by the Government, is being considered at this meeting of the National Assembly. It seems to me that this is an important matter and may also need to be maintained. The fact that we discussed the report on the state of the environment prepared by the Government for 2009 in the previous paragraph alone suggests the possibility of comparisons. These comparisons first show that the differences in estimates are significant, that differences in methodological approach are also large, and that depending on how we read one or the other report, we can make very different impressions in the style of what was previously said that a glass of water can be half empty or half full. However we're going to judge this, I think a glass of water is pretty empty. Above all, I think it is good that this non-governmental report is here today, because I have never — even when I have prepared such reports to be understood — I am not exempt from this — I have never seen any environmental report or other document prepared by the Government or its modified or subordinated institutions that would, say, strongly criticize the government or the ministry or anyone else. While all these reports are credible, correct, we cannot say that they were and that they are, but have a kind of bias that is understandable. From this point of view, reports that do not have this perspective are very important. We cannot, of course, even in this report of each sentence take for dry gold, we must also have the principle of verification and critical reading distances, as for each one, but the comparison itself is extremely important for us. And that seems most important to me. Colleagues and colleagues have presented the situation and trends as they are in the report, so I will not say this in particular, because I could only say what has already been said. Since I have already said something about the Government's environmental report and this is also a reference to this point, criticism has been made here in the Chamber that this environmental report by the Government comes far too late, that this should have been done three years ago and so on. I have here in particular, but I believe that the Zares Group, together with the Government, believes that the environmental report, as it was designed in the Environmental Protection Act in the early 1990s, today anachronism and that, together with the Government, the National Assembly should make an effort and based on what the environmental information systems are today, correct this story and untie the Government, ministries, ministers and organisations, to do this bloated, large and unnecessary environmental report, while we have reports from the Environment Agency, the Director is here, monthly always after selected, verified and comparable indicators always on the Internet, or if there is any conservative, even in a personal publication; while we can follow the whole type of data from day to day. I would suggest that we meet or meet here once and that, together with the Ministry, this article be corrected because no one serves to deal with a long-standing report so long that the data is obsolete. We need data, data comparability, methodology and short estimates. All other evaluations and substantive evaluations will be carried out in the National Assembly, in NGOs, wherever they are. I suggest that it is possible to have the report as we have received it for the last time in the National Assembly and to agree on some other way of reporting that corresponds to the current state of environmental information systems – by the way. I would just say that icons in the environmental report of NGOs, or the Survey to the Government – the state and trends are illustrated by the icons of smiling, neutral expression on the face and the sad expression, and, of course, the sad and neutral expression is much more than smiles. I believe we've been through all sorts of laughs while we're reading. We could certainly say, in particular, that the situation in the field of the environment in Slovenia, we must be able to detect this in one way or another, is not an alarming situation. But we do have some kind of, you could say, environmental policy that is fragmented, fragmented and stagnant. It seems that all too much resources have been invested in some things that do not work well, that these resources should and should do more in a different way. The focus term has been used recently. I, too, believe that we would need a more focused environmental policy in this area, and in particular our problem, colleagues and colleagues, is not a question of objectives. We have goals. Those we didn't know how to stand up for ourselves have been put on us in the European Union, one of the most harmonised policies is environmental policy. We have quantifications. We have a problem of instruments to achieve our objectives. For these instruments, I think we still rely too much on classical instruments, such as emissions bans or emissions allowed and so on. All too little, in my opinion, we are dealing with instruments that channel the behaviour of household, agriculture, industry in the right direction with financial, tax and other instruments. I believe that a serious integrated environmental policy is strong today, and it must be even stronger, linked to the so-called green fiscal reform, by following a step towards reducing labour burdens and increasing the burden of pollution taxation, including natural resources, among which water and land are one of the most important sources, and green public procurement. Above all, through this, in my view, we could achieve certain important objectives more quickly and better. I fully agree with those who say that the weakness of national and urban policies is that, at the same time, they could say they finance pollution and at the same time finance pollution prevention. We have this in the budget, in all budgets so far, a lot. We also have them on the city level. I agree with those who say they are building garages at the same time in the city centre and at the same time we are fighting pollution reduction in cities and reducing pollution with hard PM10 particles or even less. Such policies must be prevented in principle, not without them at once, but in a year, two or three already, and we should do so first if we want to make any changes. I will not talk about climate policy, which is becoming the core of environmental policy and is linked to it by all kinds of things, because I believe that someone else from the parliamentary group would like to say something. I would like once again to welcome this report, to adopt and also to support conclusions, perhaps if another decision on public financial and environmental reform were more determined, it would be even better if it were not yet, the main thing is that we have it in our heads and that we are aware of it, and of course I wish that such reports by such organisations are not the first and last time in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister with his colleague and representative, Mrs. Ogorelcheva, and of course to colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome and look forward to – I said earlier in the previous report – every contribution by NGOs working in the field of environmental protection, as they make a strong reference to the problems that exist in society and that need to be addressed immediately. In some ways, NGOs represent the second side of the medal or show some facts, which are often not as encouraging as state institutions show, so it is good that, according to the report on the environment of the Republic of Slovenia, we are also considering this report. The right to a healthy living environment is one of the fundamental, constitutionally protected human rights, so every citizen has the right to know the environment in which he lives and to demand decisively from the country to ensure a healthy environment for life. Also, Mirror to the Government 2010 – The Green Non-Governmental Monitor, prepared by the Slovenian Organisation for Sustainable Development of Umanoter, is an extremely quality and useful contribution to improving environmental policy in Slovenia. As can be seen from the report itself, there are not so many problems in environmental law and in the programmes adopted or committed to by the Government. The problem is the very implementation of legislation, which indirectly includes European environmental directives. And it is precisely because of the disrespect of the latter that the European Commission has brought a lawsuit against us several times before the Court of Justice of the European Union; two proceedings are currently pending against Slovenia. Environmental NGOs have long been pointing out the inadequacy of compliance with legislation, but their pressures by the Government are being taken with considerable reserve because it is difficult for the Government to recognise that they do not respect their own commitments. However, the pressures of the European Commission and other institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, must be addressed immediately and immediately by the fulfilment of the commitments made. The last time is to start investing in the environment because of our future, because of our children and to stop looking at environmental protection as just a cost. I will next point out some of the findings in the report that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party are most concerned. The report we have before us is an important document and requires immediate action by the Government and its competent institutions. As has already been said, some of the worrying information contained in this report is the result of the lack of implementation of the environmental measures already taken. We want to become a low-carbon society, but the releases still exceed the Kyoto Protocol's targets by more than 5%. Reducing emissions in 2009 is not the result of a successful environmental policy, but it is the result of an economic crisis, mainly due to the decline of businesses in the economic sector. As we are all aware, traffic is one of the biggest pollutants in our country, producing as much as 30% of all greenhouse emissions. The transport sector is markedly unsustainable, the number of passenger vehicles is constantly increasing, as we have one of the highest mobility rates in Europe, less than two citizens per passenger vehicle. It is therefore necessary to make a radical shift in the thinking of each individual: Is it really necessary to take your own car to a grocery store that is 500 meters away? Is it normal to drive 90 percent of cars on highways? Of course, the problem is also in huge amounts of freight transport, mainly from Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. We are in the first place in the relationship between the increase in freight traffic and GDP growth, with 82% of freight traffic going on the road, so that we are not even talking about the country's stepmotherly attitude towards bikers and the great lack of cycling routes. We agree with the rapporteurs that in order to improve the situation, we will have to follow the resolution on transport policy in a consistent manner. So far it has only existed in the form of a multitude of words on paper, so it has been a recent time for at least some of this to begin to apply in reality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also concerned about the findings of the report on the continuous increase in hip waste, both industrial and municipal. Above all, we are concerned about the lack of respect for the IPPC Directive in the issue of environmental permits for waste landfills, as we are at risk of a fine by the EU Court of Justice due to the slow issuance of environmental permits. We are also concerned about the low level of municipal waste management. Only 24 % of all waste is recovered and the rest are permanently deposited in landfills, which, in our view, is due to the extremely slow establishment of regional waste management centres. We hope that recent scenes from southern Italy will not begin to happen to us. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also concerned about the continuous reduction in the rate of self-sustainment and consequently the increase in food imports, while some Slovenian farmers on the best agricultural land grow crops for the production of biogas because they are paid for it. It is true that biomass is one of the purest sources of energy, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we firmly believe that agricultural crops must be intended for only and only food production, while agricultural waste can be used for the production of biogas. We therefore call on the Government to take appropriate measures to enable the Slovenian farmer to receive appropriate incentives for the production of food intended for the Slovenian market. A major problem is also the rise in pollution with nitrogen oxides and PM10 particles, which occurs mainly in larger cities and poses a serious threat to the health of citizens living there. The report raises many more questions that will need to be answered as soon as possible if we are to preserve the environment that was given to us by our ancestors. It is critical of problems that have a profound impact on the quality of our lives and that we are not aware of them. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the decision adopted by the Committee on the Environment on this report, but we hope that the Government will respond to the findings and that the upcoming reports will be significantly better and will contain much more positive than negative assessments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of Mr DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusions adopted by the mother's working body at the reading of the Report Mirror to the Government 2010 – Green NGO Monitor. This report has been prepared for the third time. It touched 14 of the total 49 selected indicators, which fall within three sets: transition to low-carbon society and climate change, sustainable management of natural resources, and horizontal areas. The main purpose of the drafters of the report was to identify this step between the declaration promises and the commitments already made and the actual state of the environment and sustainable development. While we welcome such cooperation from NGOs in the DeSUS Group, we believe that they represent an important share in the design of environmental policy and the achievement of sustainable development in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that only the report is well prepared, but I must say that when the report is reviewed, we lacked concrete proposals to improve the situation, compare it with the monitoring and reports that have been prepared so far, as comparisons could give us insight into the state of affairs for a longer period. However, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the report presented provides a good basis for the continuation of the necessary debate to improve the environment in our country. This report also coincided with the 2009 government environmental report in the Republic of Slovenia. The assessments of the individual areas show that the situation is particularly poor where cooperation and the involvement of different stakeholders is needed. However, both reports clearly indicate that horizontal cooperation between individual ministries needs to be significantly improved. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that people are becoming increasingly aware and more critical and considerate of the shortcomings. There will therefore need to be much more concrete and intensive teamwork in this area, as well as a sense of ownership and responsibility in decision-making. Our legislation is very extensive, but unfortunately we do not always implement it. If, at all stages of the drafting of legislation, like the Aarhus Convention, all stakeholders in the area, in particular at the level of the local community, were to be more closely involved, they could avoid many conflicts and contradictions. In the parliamentary group, we believe that such a mirror needs to be placed on the Government, that it will also be provided by NGOs with the right information or guidance, where there are still open issues in the environmental field and what remains to be arranged for us to live in a more suitable environment without continuing to destroy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u76	Dear Mr Vice President, Minister! The Green Non-Governmental Monitor has been prepared to determine how the State is concerned about the implementation of the principles of sustainable development, especially when it comes to the inappropriate conduct of state or municipal authorities, and the findings and assessments in the areas we have monitored are not encouraging in any way and show that the Government is not taking the commitments seriously enough, which is certainly bad. The material that is equipped with data is good quality, and the presentation on the parent's working body has been comprehensive, but I would also expect concrete proposals to improve the situation in this area, because if we evaluate what is bad, we must also propose how to improve this situation. Five points would be touched in the Slovenian National Party Group. Water as a strategic source, where you wrote down that we are stagnating in this area. In doing so, I would point out compliance with legislation in water protection areas where the law is clear, but the implementation of the law, which is supposed to come into existence mainly in 2011, will not bring any good to farmers in these areas. While progress has been made with regard to cleaning facilities, as a large number have been built, I must say that most of these settlements, which do not have sewerage, are located in water protection areas and it would be appropriate for the State to help those municipalities that are committed to enabling people living there to obtain sewage. However, the country has less hearing for this, and the congregations are left to themselves, especially now that the money is much less. Sustainable development, sustainable agriculture. Of course, I support the protection of agricultural land, but we have something to point out. Some municipalities also lie strictly within agricultural land and, of course, have their own development programmes and cannot spread anywhere but to agricultural land. Although some of these agricultural lands are abandoned, they could be used to expand construction or construction. I think that the law should be a little more flexible in such cases and that the opinion of the people living there should also be taken into account. Nature conservation. There's too much cabinet thinking and too little consideration is given to the profession. There is a lack of concrete realisation to improve and overly influence capital and individuals so that no improvement can occur at all. I think it's present and it's disturbing. Waste — stagnation. All municipalities have collection centres and think it is high time for local communities to commit themselves to starting separate collection of household waste throughout the country. For it has been shown that congregations that have separate collection of waste have virtually no more waste to be deposited. Industrial pollution. As we can see, things are not getting any worse here. It is logical that the economy must also be affected by a wider social interest, which sometimes does not follow the most outlined guidelines, and many times this can be improved and balanced in other areas. There are still many open topics that would be worth discussing, but I think that the Government will be sufficiently receptive to all the comments that have been made on the Committee on Environment and Space in particular. Of course, I have no reason not to believe in improvement, because, as we know, there is an army of people working in government services who are experts in all areas, only they need to be trusted and not hindered from doing the work professionally and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report. Here you go, ma'am. Vida Ogorelec, I warn and inform you that you, as a proponent, can participate in the debate whenever you wish. The first word is Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Dr. Luke Yuri. [[He won't discuss it.]] Miran Györek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She won't discuss it.]] Here you go, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the representative of Omanotere! I believe, as Paul Gantar's colleague said, that this is an important event and that we now have the opportunity not to close our eyes to reality. I think that the mirror produced by Umanoter is a real reflection of the situation in our country, which is caught up in global trends, unfortunately, in environmental degradation. If we stop at some specific issues, which are also in the report and we all know them. This is actually a wrong model that encourages environmental degradation in a way that impresses people to live better. It's a big illusion. We can come from a concept that has also established in us the construction of large shopping centres that stimulate individual transport. This is not a recipe, it is not a path to public transport, it is a way to rationalise this transport, but it is a promotion of the wrong trend. I will mention three problems that have recently arisen as acute problems, and if we go from the coast to eastern Slovenia: Kemiplas, Lafarge, glass industry. We do not know enough about the consequences, about the concrete consequences for people living in those environments, based on the analyses we receive from the competent services. Recently, I had just had a conversation with the employees of the Glass Nova, which was caused by the inhalation of glass particles or other harmful elements, but we know nothing about it. However, it is true that medical analyses determine a higher level of certain specific diseases in these environments than was the case with asbestos in Anhove and elsewhere. In short, many such situations where there is not yet a proper monitoring and where the government should actually do much more. I have also recently been a representative of the Euro-Mediterranean conference in Vienna, where we have dealt with renewable resources, and only a fugitive comparison between the two countries, which are similar to those of nature and potential, Austria and Slovenia, talk about that we have not done enough, although there is a tendency to increase this in renewable sources. Austria will provide 40% of the total renewable energy balance in 2020: wind, sun, water and biomass. At that time, we will reach up to 26% of the total energy balance. This information is very talkative and speaks of some countries investing intensively in renewables and clean sources. Scandinavian countries have already managed to recycle 95% of waste with their technology, which is already a fairy tale. And if they have – the information that Janez Potočnik himself gave when he was in Finland and he saw how all cities actually live with the development of such technology, which is applied precisely to waste recycling and energy production. We're far from it! So this should be the absolute priority of all governments, the former, and I hope that this report will contribute in this regard to the acceleration of such ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for saying that again. Well, it may certainly show that we commend this report, for even the shortcomings mentioned above, or the guidance for the future, do not destroy the fact that we still have enough material to deal with at this meeting of the National Assembly. And so it is, because the state of the environment in Slovenia is worrying, and perhaps this is due to the accumulated events of recent years. Certainly this finding does not only fly to the Minister present, because the environment is an interdisciplinary matter and other ministries need to be acted upon. Perhaps I would focus only on some of the segments of this report, which may concern other ministries, this is certainly about sustainable mobility. Transport is found to contribute 14% to climate change or carbon dioxide emissions. Given that the company is globalised, it is difficult for me to imagine that the movement itself, the number of vehicles, the number of kilometres transported could significantly reduce, but we can rationalise them mainly by shifting freight transport to other means of transport such as the railway – and, of course, if possible – maritime transport, but of course passenger transport must be organised in the form of public transport. If this difficult task, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, were to be solved immediately, I think that, given the increasing trends in the world, given the situation of our country, which is transitive, we would not in fact change the volume of traffic, but we could increase its quality and possibly better compliance with the environment. It also applies to some traffic event, which is mainly in major cities and in almost all cities. They may have missed a great moment and will cost us dearly, at least outside the major cities, where we have been so joyfully building traffic crossings, when the world, and Western Europe are already strongly practicing the circles. So, let's say, we're on our way through Ljubljana to the victim of the red wave; that is, to stand on every traffic light and have a car running free. Increased emissions in the free run are increased PM emissions of particles, NOx and monoxide, because it is a different way of burning. This makes a very important contribution to air quality, at least in these major cities such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, maybe Kranj and also, say, in my birthplace, Škofja Loki is not much better. Ten traffic lights to get you out of the Skofje Loka area, and that's not good, even though some traffic lights are already out of town and you could make a circle. There is certainly a worrying trend regarding the energy situation in Slovenia. I'd like to say something with reference to Cancun's conclusions, which are essentially not there, is the battle to continue Kyoto. And we can't reach Kyoto, even though it's a thing of the past that should have happened here. So, mega-Romanian plans and outdated energy approaches will not give us a better future. However, I have met with Globe International and a colleague from the German Parliament, where they have more ambitious plans, strongly promote and introduce into daily life renewables, green energy. It is certainly the direction of Slovenia because of certain great interests outside the direction of our Western European partners. It is worth noting that the European Union will produce a 200 billion-dollar package for the renewal of energy systems, for the modernisation of energy systems and for something more relevant to the energy approaches and visions of the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century, it will not receive anything from that envelope. By not thinking that an energy project needs to be stopped, but it only needs to be reviewed and updated and implemented with another approach. In Slovenia, all alternative sources are more headaches than something sought and desired. It is worth noting that we have one of the best photovoltaic panels, this is the Bisol factory, which unfortunately sells almost nothing in Slovenia, and therefore does not whitewash their heads, because elsewhere they are more energy-aware and pick up everything as hot buns. And now this firm with modest 150 employees has a plan to move on to 750 employees in the coming years. The Chinese, or their products, probably discovered them, and now, whatever they do, they're going to do too little. With us, what is placed on the roof is a subject of bullying — and without the necessary bureaucratic obstacles and so on. I don't know how some photovoltaic panels can threaten an energy giant who imagines producing 600 megawatt hours or something. The Slovenian needs are 11 terawatt hours of electricity, of which the current policy will be difficult to reduce. The next problem Brussels also draws attention to is energy efficiency. It's not just that someone's driving a car, it's worse that one house gets heat out for another house. I think I heard something else in the debate that Trimo Trebnje has already made a zero house, so the one that doesn't emit anything because there's no need to heat up because nothing gets out. Of course, I'm not surprised that Trimo did this because their way of building with a large sandwich of insulation material allows them to do so. The way to build, when the goal is only to vote on money and to finish as soon as possible and in wet apartments, mold and wet, and with a garage where there is water to the knees, to accommodate the population. This is probably not part of energy efficiency. Here it is in the minister’s hands to all such tycoons — to use that word again — take a little look at them and find out all these inconsistencies. While there is a program in the country, even subsidising the heating of municipal water on the roof, as well as better insulation of buildings. What can help us if new constructions are made for horace? To make money back as soon as possible and to be as much as possible, of course, it is necessary to make it with the most decaying materials, no quality, no energy efficiency, only that we have at the time of the electoral campaign to praise ourselves with 2,000 apartments, but I don't know how much longer. The logistic stoppers on such horace constructions only accumulate and will continue to smell like monoxide, incombustible fuel, PM10 particles. The treatment of waste is also a very painful wound. While the world has long known that there are so many and so many secondary raw materials, a large amount of energy and composting. What's left of the residue can then be put on a small stack and taken away with the carjola, of course also in political turmoil, where perhaps everything has already been arranged for a regional centre with municipal waste, and what Cera was almost on the "zalaphan" paper, and then because of the populism that someone has been elected to "everything and stuff" as it would have been said, then it has to be stopped, and through some hole it has to be brought back again. Because we're the most harmful to ourselves, we won't come a millimeter further. In the world we have already seen, along with Stockholm, there is a self-sufficient city, which is supplied with energy or heating, and they have just the right amount of their own garbage. I think colleagues and colleagues have reported that there is something like this in Malmö. If others know, why wouldn't they know about us? If it works somewhere else, why don't we? It is worth noting that some of the things I have mentioned have been observed in many northern parts of Europe, where there are fewer sunny days where the external temperatures are on average lower than those of us. And if, despite all of this, these latest projects succeed, then I see no reason why they should not use copy-paste techniques, but, of course, first of all, it is necessary to reduce or shake off certain lobbyists who are just "making" their own story, whereby they only have an interest in money, regardless of the fact that even on this green order, on green behaviour, they turn a lot of money into green energy. Otherwise, Bisol would not grow so fast. I would be very happy to sell as much as possible at home, since each panel means a few cubics of less exhaust gas or air pollutants. We already have a program or law on climate change ahead of us. Of course, there will be again what Comrade Petan said today, one thing we are saying, writing and declaring, the other we are doing. And what will benefit us from the law on climate change if it does not take place on the ground and if there are no specific guidelines. It's hard to put everything on just one minister, like I said, and this one's only for half the time. It is already necessary to establish some starting points and perhaps even to him in the new term or to his successors, I do not make any differences, but in this mandate at least make good starting points. As someone has already mentioned, five years in such cuts and in a completely new way not only work and technology, but also thinking, five years is essentially something like an hour in everyday life. Before you know it, it's five years past, and then we're listening to a report that's not at any point or better. The environment should therefore be treated with respect and appropriateness, otherwise it hits us like a boomerang back. Every disease as a result of the environment also has a certain cost. Something we saved, say, in some construction, in a cheap factory, in inadequate filters, in cheap filters, we lost some people in the treatment of a certain number of residents. Perhaps it is Slovenia that is subject to some of the slogans I heard at the international company where I was employed: We are not rich enough to buy cheap ones. Another thing we also had written in our head and on the boards is: Value for Money. So it's the right value for the money you've invested, so you don't overpay. Although we have not yet obtained such an analysis, NIC has prepared a report and studies on the real price of energy. And they took a cross-sectional analysis in China, where the cheapest kilowatt hour is almost in the world, but with the consequences – obsolete devices that they are restoring. I have a feeling, as far as I can see, that there are a lot of work in China on climate change, but at the conferences there are also claims that they have done nothing, because these are their negotiating points. In these battles between the European Union, the United States and China, the Chinese are doing something at home, and this is in the direction of improvement, even though it is their most difficult task. Let me come back. The cheapest kilowatt hour of electricity generated, but for one complex of thermoelectric power plants they calculated as a result 13,000 dead per year due to the consequences of all forms of respiratory, vascular and similar cases. Not to mention their constant mining accidents, which are due to poor equipment and vote for money. That's something. And if it is estimated that society has invested in a person who dies between the ages of 30 and 40 following the consequences of all these pollution-related issues and has estimated that this is a million euros, they have essentially thrown away 13 billion euros with some cheap electricity in another area. Perhaps it would also show us to do such a study of how much it costs us, say, a long wait before the traffic lights. This could be done as quickly as possible, faster than completely around to reverse the national energy programme. If he has the starting points that they now indicate, we can soon repair him again. The report is certainly a good starting point for consideration and if those two other referrals take into account, i.e. a comparison and perhaps some advice on how the matter is resolved, then there will be another step of upgrade and an even better starting point for debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Magaina. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Weber has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you. Today's consideration of NGO reports in Parliament shows that we are really significantly more open to these debates than ever before in Slovenia alone, and this is extremely welcome. However, I think that the efforts and warnings themselves are such that they can also be understood clearly enough, so that they are properly processed data and messages that are sufficiently rational and also useful. This report speaks of a mirror to the Government, and we must not ignore this fact that we are facing the biggest economic and financial crisis during this period. If we are talking somehow about the river 'happiness in an accident', it is an accident to face an economic and financial crisis, and it is likely that less economic activity also reduces environmental pollution. Whether we can come from this moment more qualified to have better technologies in our economy is a key issue that I think is also trying to resolve in these two years of government. Nevertheless, we must not ignore the fact that much more money is invested in the development of new technologies and that we expect these new technologies to contribute mainly to reducing emissions, increasing added value and thus opening the door to new investments in the rehabilitation of those programmes that do, say, the greatest damage in the environment. I do not think it is necessary to ignore this fact that much time and energy has been invested in these two years, too, in trying to warn us that we have an extremely important resource in Slovenia, this is a wood that has actually been underexploited during this period, and to a large extent we are faced with the fact that, last but not least, this sink of CO2 that we are applying in forests, we are spending then in industrial centres to compensate for pollution and, on the other hand, this wood, which could also permanently accumulate CO2 in itself, in our products, we are exporting and going to other markets or then we are importing it back as highly processed. I think that this debate that we are becoming increasingly focused on the fact that wood becomes a strategic raw material is something that, in my opinion, can lead to a significant improvement in the environment in the next two years as well as in the future. I hope that these decisions will also lead to us actually becoming significantly more organised in this area, not only in the forest development planning segment, where I think we are already at the European summit, but that much work and most work is ahead of us in the very process of processing this wood. Also in this latest reflection, we can face information from the daily newspaper, there is a wood processing industry in trouble, and that new and new companies appear just before bankruptcy or other problems. It is therefore an extremely important task here to organise and offer very quickly to markets interested in using wood either in construction or in other matters as a basic and priority element. Much has been done in this area already through trying also to accelerate the percentage of use or percentage of use of wood through green public procurement, but I still think we can estimate that this percentage is relatively low, given the ability that we might have in Slovenia. In my opinion, some things are well placed and we will probably be able to say in the future that we have also done a lot in this mandate, that the situation in the environment has improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President, with respect from Omanotere, Mr Minister. I would not discuss whether the report is too fast or too late. Every time it comes to protecting our environment, it's the right time, let it be yesterday, let it be today and tomorrow. As much as our health is worth, our clean and healthy environment is also worth. It is right to set up a mirror for the Government to look in the mirror, and in fact it is the responsibility of all of us, and not only the Government, to take the initiative on us all, to try to improve our environment, to protect it and to hand it over to our craftsmen and descendants as we wish or as they expect. During these years, some changes have been made, and positive changes have been made with regard to environmental protection and protection. It is very important that in these years our country has sobered up in the sense that it is not taken outside by foreign investors as a landfill of old and non-modern technologies that have actually caused a poor state of affairs and have worsened the entire state of air emissions. It is true, however, that there are many things in this matter that are otherwise declared in laws but are not implemented as quickly, as intensely as everyone would like to do together. There has already been a lot of talk about Slovenia having many variants and content of renewable resources, from wood biomass, to photovoltaics, to biogas or any other content that could provide a good basis for our energy. When we go into individual things and individual solutions, we see that in addition to this declaration regime there are many administrative complications and many such ones that deter these interested groups and interested people from dealing with renewable resources and acquiring energy in such environmentally friendly ways. If we look at photovoltaics, it's right that the kilowatt time of electricity delivered via photovoltaics is well placed and that it is very interesting for those involved. But when we go to how to build a solar power plant, we see that there is no problem up to 40 square meters, which is more, but it is conditioned by a building permit, it is already conditioned by a lot of documentation that prevents anyone from investing in energy at all and entering such a clean energy option. These are not part of one ministry, they are connected, they should be inter-resortically coordinated, they should be harmonised to such an extent that all those who have the initiative and who have the desire to acquire and use renewable resources should thus come to this faster and easier. I am not just talking about giving them more subsidies for some things here as well. Look, what's interesting is that these renewables are definitely interesting to our neighbors. It is true that the Ministry of Space and Environment has provided many opportunities for the construction of centres for the uniform management of municipal waste. Our neighbouring Austrians are so smart that they are already buying biodiesel and turning it into biodiesel in Slovenia, buying out waste tires, buying out last time cleaning plants, and are already interested in these centers, how much waste will they be like to take them to Austria and process them there and transform them into some kinder energy. Why is that? Whether in Slovenia we do not have enough knowledge or initiatives or financial support to produce these things ourselves, so that we can gain energy that is more acceptable to us than what we have. This is very, very interesting! And today, when we talk about this mirror and the environmental report, there are also many words in the local community. Local communities have an interest, ambition, they also have inspiration on how to improve the environment, improve the air pollution situation and so on. However, many times this is not enough to take a step forward. Many cities in Slovenia want public transport. But as far as possible, you can figure it out for yourself. They're very small. Local communities do not have enough resources to invest in these things that are interesting and necessary. This report and this consideration should certainly point out that it is good if the action programme is designed and it is important that it is implemented. It is good that it is declared as regards environmental protection and environmental protection, but it is good that this is also being done. For me, and probably for someone else, it wouldn't be wrong to build that mirror every year. And each year they also warned and told how relationships are monitored, how things are monitored, and how things are regulated. Although I think that Slovenia, as a polluter and a cause of climate degradation throughout the world, is likely to take a very low place. Not because we're a small polluter, not because we're threatened by the Aarhus Convention or the Kyoto Agreement, but because we're important. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Bogovich has a word to prepare Mr Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Nice greeting to the distinguished minister, Lady of Omanotere! I am also very pleased that this report, the real 2010 government mirror, has appeared in Parliament and that we can talk about these environmental issues that concern us daily and that we are certainly right to speak in Parliament and, as has been said, this mirror to the Government in all areas. Today, only the Minister for Environment and Space is among us, but this species could be almost as full as it is for the questions sent, where virtually all ministries are being thrashed and each must contribute in its own way to protecting the environment and take action in its field. I have also spoken about this several times here in Parliament and in the local environment, where I have been working for a good decade. I can also say that it has already been highlighted today that this area should be in which the cooperation of all departments, both governmental and non-governmental and local, should be significantly better. In fact, more decisive steps in the common policy need to be taken in this area. I can illustrate this in cases like traffic. This is about a freight case, which is little done in public transport, either public transport, for which cities, municipalities are responsible, whether it is bus or rail public transport. It is still incomprehensible for us to buy one card and ride with different carriers with different means of transport and so on. Many responsibilities in this area are also vested in the congregations. Slovenia is justified at the time of entry into the European Community, and it has also been conditionally so, accepted a number of commitments in various areas over the various years, but the years are there somewhere from 2015 to 2020 when those doomsday years will have to be met and also met those expectations, the requirements we adopted at that time. If we know that we are now in 2010, that we negotiated these things at the beginning of this millennium, that we became members of the European Community in 2004, of which we are now seven years old, then we are at the middle of this period. I am missing a very clear inventory in this area, I am talking about the areas of municipal waste management, waste water management. We must be aware that these are not areas that, if I move to the local level, could bring some political points. These are, in particular, areas where large funds need to be invested, to go through the mazes of very difficult spatial documents, to obtain some co-financing resources to carry out such large projects. I miss this inventory myself, and I'm sure once it's done, the conclusion will be that the potential of municipalities to meet these demands is too small. Or should I say otherwise that in a number of congregations so far there has been a lack of attention and that this account will come in a few years when these budgets simply cannot do so. So here this responsibility is shared and I think that one of the things that needs to be done urgently and also very quickly. The next area that very much touches this area is the energy sector. I come from Posavje, where there is already an energy pool, and in this Parliament I have already raised these questions several times, and I also wanted certain answers and clarifications for me in unclear and incomprehensible things that we have made such a huge backlog in the project of building hydroelectric power plants, one of the rare green sources, which ultimately also produces electricity at a competitive price in these two years. The period of the past years, when three State Spatial Plans were adopted in four, five years, two hydropower plants were built, and the third construction site was under way. These two years, 2009 and 2010, we will write down those who have been actively working on these projects for almost two decades, as the worst years since not enough has been done on these movements. At the beginning there was even a misunderstanding, obstruction of acquisition and provision of funds, but now I think there are too many mazes, too many difficulties in adopting these state spatial plans. The same is true in the field of other energy investments in Slovenia. Last year alone, I pointed out this with a question to the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, when I asked him the question, "Is it not a good time for us to really and responsibly discuss project T6 in Slovenia?" Not in my desire or in my original position to oppose this project, but in the light of the situation we have been in. Two months after the adoption of the energy-environment package in the European Community, two months after the electricity prices had practically halved, two months after electricity consumption had decreased, we became self-sufficient with about a third of imports. What were the reactions then and what happened then, we know. But we also know how this project still works today in Slovenia. Similarly, I do not think that we have a structured policy in the field of renewable energy sources. I have also looked across Europe at a number of these cases, and they usually look for and know what is best for them, which source they will give priority to. We were with the President of Parliament in Denmark, where we saw very clearly how much investment is being made in the wind industry. By the way, we also learned that the Danes produce one third of the world's wind turbines. So they develop technology and devote it to their economic work. The Germans have developed solar energy and solar electricity to the point of visit, a whole range of German companies working on development, in the production of these projects, and a whole range of banks are following these projects. In Spain, for example, they went so far as to consider whether they would continue with this policy when the country has already made a commitment to pay one billion euros a year. And if I return to our Slovenian space, I confirm what my colleague Weber said. I also personally estimate that wood is the first thing around which we should do more in this area in Slovenia, not so that, as in prehistoric history, wood burns, but that those remains of wood, less quality parts of wood, as well as other residues from wood biomass in different areas, turn it into heat and possibly also into electricity. Geothermal energy is also one that could be done in Slovenia. I myself expect that, after such a debate, we will have a national energy programme as soon as possible, which we have been waiting for since last year and was promised after that debate. And there will have to be a lot of writing in there about how much money we will invest in renewable resources, and I think there will be a lot more attention to the efficient use of energy. Here I also welcome the measures implemented by the Eco Fund and this year have also experienced a massive response between Slovenians and Slovenians. I think a very clear definition is needed in this area. Let me also commend myself here to a certain extent. I am pleased that in the local environment as well as in many other municipalities in Slovenia, we have done well in this area. This year, when the first call for energy was also the most efficient municipalities, I was pleased with the mayor of the municipality, who received recognition as the most energy efficient municipality. However, there was a whole range of good practices presented by municipalities across Slovenia, and I believe that we could devote even more attention to this area in the future. Within the framework of the resources available for this purpose from the European Funds, I miss this decision or the direction in which the efficient use of energy should be directed. During the previous government, we were repeatedly invited in the municipalities to prepare projects to rebuild schools, to rebuild kindergartens. The government in the current composition has decided and this has changed that so far there has been an invitation to college, called for higher education, and for hospitals. I welcome this matter, and in this part I think that about a third of these funds have been spent, and I miss this part where we go to schools, children. From experience I can say that separate collection of waste and the area of municipal waste management in Slovenia has made such progress precisely because in local environments we decided to go to children with a variety of activities, promotion. What children learned in schools, in ecological circles and so on, they slowly transferred to Slovenian homes. And today, great progress has been made in this area. Similarly, this model could be continued in the field of energy efficiency. And if the municipalities could also be those on calls for effective use of school facilities, which, by the way, were mostly built in the 1970s, 1980s, when energy efficiency standards were at a significantly lower level than they are today, they could also make a wider breakthrough in society today than we did in the field of municipal waste management. I welcome this report, and I will be happy if this mirror is placed on the Council of State and Government every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, ministers, representative of Omanotere! I have carefully read this non-governmental green monitor and I support the presentation in this way also in the National Assembly. There was also quite a debate on the Committee on Environment and Space. However, this mirror has a huge flaw, and this is that only the Minister for Environment and Space is sitting with us, but not responsible for everything we are dealing with in this report. And that's the key problem that we have in this country. It is said that policies that touch virtually all resources are somehow reduced to the one that is most responsible, but which does not have a tool to influence everyone else in return, to also engage in some direction, in some implementation of the Directives, and all matters are very divorcised. Therefore, not all of these measures, which have so far been addressed, have had the effect and effect they could have had. We talk about sustainable development all the time, and most people only think about how we preserve nature, how we improve and reduce pollution, but sustainable development also means improving human well-being. We don't usually know that. We are talking about how we need to reduce certain pollution. Earlier there was talk about sustainable mobility, about how to reduce pollution in larger cities. When we get to putting solutions into space, the opposite happens that it is those who talk about pollution, who talk about how certain measures need to be taken, that begin by obstructing certain placements into a place where there is a purely practical obstacle, but which cannot be avoided and which is shown to be a major gain in terms of preserving a certain nature. We come here in some way in conflict also within these NGOs and these environmental protection measures, which, on the other hand, represent an increase in some of the pressures within the cities, within some of the regulated areas. So in this case, our NGOs are often unconstitutional. This is also shown in the adoption of certain laws. Also, the Triglav National Park Act has shown very quickly that there is a great dissipation in concepts among them, so it is not only a problem of ministries that do not cooperate with each other, but also of NGOs themselves, where many things depend primarily on a leading man, who is leading an NGO and who sees some priority that seems most important to him. This is also the case with many major conflicts. One of the concrete issues that emerged on the Committee on Environment and Space was pollution with PM10 on the one hand, NGOs talking about pollution, reduction, on the other hand, an alternative to biomass, which is contrary to efforts to reduce pollution with PM10. It is said that we are on two environmental issues that are in conflict. And there are different views on the part of NGOs, which is, in fact, an obstacle to some concrete action. Even in placing most of the infrastructure, when we are talking about road, rail infrastructure, we are also bragging on the one hand that this needs to be regulated in order to reduce certain environmental burdens, but when serious projects are put into place, the same advocates set impossible conditions and nothing moves. The same applies to coordination between the departments. We all sign that we are adopting some directives to make some recommendations, but when this is to be achieved, all of this falls away from the Ministry of Environment and Space, which does not have any support from other sources at a certain point in time. And all things hang in the air and translate from one part to the other. In this case, too, there is no support, such as the Ministry of Environment and Space in certain cases, by non-governmental organisations, which tend to be very supportive of environmental protection and certain measures. And I'll be clear again. When floods and major disasters occur, we are all wise to do what needs to be done, after some two years of building a retainer, to set up a rig, and everyone finds mosses, grasses and everything that grows in this area, and no concrete measures are allowed to protect property and regulate in terms of sustainable development a better living environment for people. Sustainable development not only means preserving grasses, butterflies, birds and others, but also means improving the living environment for humans. On the one hand, we say what we need to do to improve everything, but when this needs to be put into place specifically and prepared with concrete measures, NGOs tend to forget what is in the declarations and recommendations. I am pleased that such a report is dealt with in such a systematic manner on a case-by-case basis, but it is immediately apparent that these matters are quite uncoordinated among the NGOs or very inconsistent if I am even more specific. Until these things are unified within the Government, within the ministries, and within the NGOs, and until all of these recommendations are read, because some of these recommendations we sign, and these declarations are usually read as prohibitions, although there is no record of them, others read them as recommendations and do not want to do anything until we are united about what is good for us, rather than copying pasta, we copy documents without knowing what will be decided in the end, and how to finance it, we will not come to any concrete and effective policies or strategies for this development. We signed a number of directives practically with a fig in our pocket, or we did not know what lies ahead, especially in the area of cleaning appliances, in the field of waste disposal. And another problem was that whoever signed this later withdrew and left the matter to the people's initiative, the good will, the local communities, which was essentially not going to say bad, but unhappy, and that's why we're in big trouble. Another measure that discusses the construction of cleaning plants, sewage networks, where local communities have gone to the point that these funds have been very intensively pumped and have also convinced people that it is useful for them to lower costs, as this will reduce environmental pollution charges. People have also been misled in some way because, at the next moment, someone decides and prepares a regulation that speaks of the need to recover the funds acquired by the European Union, and in this case, the burden of people who have joined such systems increases considerably. And this is not right for those who have dealt with such projects, because the new object from the point of view of depreciation is significantly more expensive than the outdated installation. It must therefore be made very clear here that sustainable development is, of course, but it must be read as sustainable development, which is not at the expense of people, but not only sustainable development, which preserves all the biotopes and other things that live in this space. I respect that, but most of the time it happens to forget about people in all these activities. Civil initiatives are also welcome, but if they are in some real context and if they really stand for what they themselves sign and do not defend some international symposiums themselves. The same applies to renewable sources. On the one hand, we are all committed to this, and in the last 20 or 15 years, we have built very few hydropower plants on watercourses, water reservoirs, which could also be used to use energy. This source is domestic, this is home knowledge and certain lobbying cannot earn, and this is also a problem. And the key problem that I see in this whole story is that someone at the general level has decided to go to the curative and not preventative. And this is the basic problem that all ministries involved in this segment have. It is perhaps the easiest thing to do to repair the damage that occurs, then it is also the easiest thing to do in such a way that those who belong to them do not then say that this will be permanently arranged and that certain works can be done transparently, that they can be monitored and that, finally, someone is responsible for how they operate and are responsible for their mistakes, and thus also ensures quality development, and if we talk about development in one way or another – sustainable development, the development of the whole area. Here I think that there is still a great opportunity for this to improve, but certainly not in such a way that sustainable development will only be the domain of the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mrs Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u90	Very quickly about why I think the main problem with the implementation deficit is impotence. First case. Science has been leaving us in uncertainty for months, while its most visible representatives have been cursing each other, and the few days have been comparing each other with the analphabetes, in the case of the construction of Thermoelectrica6. Second case. An example of the NIMBY effect that we universalize so that almost everyone among us wants something else that he does not want on his own. The third is a lack of will, which the report says is that the Government does not take its commitments seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I do not know if it has been sufficiently clear and stressed that today this point is actually a historic event in the National Assembly, because for the first time it has happened that NGOs can have their own agenda item, which is also intended to assess the work of the Government over the last two years. I think it is important to stress this and that this is actually one of the highest forms of the implementation of the Aarhus Convention. This is the way that in the house of democracy, as we call it, the main house of democracy, because at the end of the day we have 210 others, albeit few smaller, but still to implement the word of non-governmental civil society organisations. The other thing that seems important to me in today’s event is that we can weigh between the environmental report, in the previous item, and the report, called Mirror Government – Green NGO Monitor, prepared by NGOs. It is not only a time period covered by both reports, but also a different approach. One is to report on its own work, and the other is to report on how someone, at least theoretically, is also to a large extent practical, independent of daily policy, from the Government and probably has a more critical attitude towards this action, which has been carried out in recent years in this government. I think it is also important that we have been able, together in this mandate, to bring together the Committee on the Environment and Space, in cooperation with the leadership of the National Assembly, these two topics, which are essentially closely related to each other, to the plenary of the National Assembly. I hope this will become a regular practice. However, I think some have also warned NGOs about this on-the-spot report. The fact is that it is much easier to check how someone has done something, but not then to propose concrete solutions, how might it be better to do things, even so far as the mirror tells the Government that it is necessary to change patterns of conduct, behaviour, and also to set priorities in the government's programme in the coming years and in particular in the country's programme. In fact, all of these things that are happening and that we are causing or trying to recover in the environment are always very long-term; it is impossible, for example, to re-enact an environment within two years, just as it is not possible in two, three years to radically reduce individual emissions in the environment, and it is not possible to change the habit of people – for example in their mobility. The fact is that anyone who counts real, soberly thinks well knows that public passenger traffic will return to the former level of human-kilometres, passenger-kilometre, as it is called, like in ton-kilometre trucks, we have here a human-kilometre, will return to the beginning of the 90s within 10 to 15 years. Not before. However, if we want to achieve what they already have in some European cities, not just the main ones, such as regional centres and the like, I think that 20 or 25 years is not an excessive number. However, so I told the guys who planned some technical improvements or machine replacements, machine training and so on: "Friends, if you don't start today – don't think about it, but work on it – we'll still be on the same thing in three years because you have to start today." The same is true of the most common subjects, transport, especially in the case of passenger car transport. The last time I was told by every woman, when she walked down Isola, that she stopped and watched as ten cars passed by her, then of course she went on and did not deal with it anymore, but said that in all ten cars in Isola, in a city where she knew people who were sitting in cars, so she knew that they lived maybe 600 meters away from the location where they were, there were only two cars with two passengers, and in all others there was only one passenger. These habits cannot be resolved within two or three years, and therefore solutions that I hope the Government will take into account must be proposed. That is why I agree with my colleague Krivec, who said that there should be at least five ministers and their co-workers in these two categories. The fact is that the area of environmental management, if we use such a very general term, is so wide that it is almost impossible to be wider. I probably didn't say enough when I said five ministers, because practically the whole government is involved in environmental management, from water to transport, to industry, to children that we have to raise so that they can teach parents to collect waste separately, so that they can teach parents not to smoke and so on. All these things are certainly so important that, I must say, I am pleased that I too am one of the stones that made this decision to deal with the mirror. And I want the community of all — in the good sense of the word, of course, that no one would think about the criminal code, the association of all non-governmental organizations that have drawn up this mirror, to work hard and work forward, because the fact is that everyone who leads any group of people, whether in a factory, in a congregation or at the level of the country, should necessarily need a mirror, in which he must look every so long to see that not everything he does is not all that he does is doing well, and that some of his moves, ideas, reflections change, improvements. And I think this government may be more than happy to have someone who sets up a mirror for her. I think that, in particular, we need such a mirror in the area of environmental management. Thank you, Omanotheri, and all those who have cooperated. By the way, I would say that it would probably be good if some of the participating organisations took a little look at the other side. I've got to be a little mean here. I'm talking about DOBS, so no one can question who I'm talking about. When defending some endangered animal or plant species, we need to consider all aspects of this defense. So I'm going to say, scrawny, wild fight against wind power plants -- I went through Austria, through Germany, through Slovakia, and I saw a bunch of wind power plants. And, you know, then my husband and I traveled by car, and we stopped at a windshield like this, and we counted all the dead birds that were around. Catastrophe, I tell you! I've never seen so many dead birds around anything in my life, just around any wind power plant I've ever seen in my entire life. Mrs Wagner, I ask you to inform your colleagues at DOBS not to exaggerate. Their alarming information about the terrible damage to wind power plants for the existence and survival of endangered bird species is, of course, attracted to hair and should be a little sober before they talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would only briefly explain something so that it would not be misunderstood. The honourable Member spoke of some frailty. This was not addressed to this report, which I commended, was addressed to the report on the environment in Slovenia, where we expected responses. At each point, we also have measures to move forward and no one has said whether the measures are good or bad. But this report is not milky, it is hot, and I am glad that we have also treated it so hot today, and all praise goes. One more thing about green energy. You know, I don't mind if we compare the use of the sun in Slovenia and Spain, the use of wind in Slovenia and Spain, the Netherlands and elsewhere. Look, even geographical details tell us something. I am interested in how many windmills in Slovenia can be listed in history. It's also one piece of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Gorelec on behalf of Omanotere.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I am particularly pleased that there has been a practically unanimous positive response to this report mentioned twice or even three times in the historical event. Even in my long history, I have not yet witnessed a non-governmental report, not only in the field of the environment, but in general, in this institution. So in this sense I am very pleased, not only that you welcome the emergence of an independent non-governmental report itself, but also the quality of how it is prepared. The data was also quite quoted, so I can see that obviously many of you have read it with interest. To put it positively, expectations in this sense were also very constructive criticisms, in order to expect recommendations in the future in terms of solutions. We have indeed been very disciplined in this report in the sense that we have looked at what has been achieved since the commitments made, and we have been self-retained here, we have not been so creative. However, I think that this proposal has already been very well received at the Committee's meeting on the part of our team and also the expectation that these reports would be regularly presented here in the house. I can now say that ten days ago we received a confirmed funding with the substantive non-governmental network Plan B for Slovenia, which is by the European Social Fund, support to NGOs, and the Mirror project, one of almost twenty, is included in this form of funding for 2012, where it will be an opportunity for us to really look at the situation at the end of the government's mandate and even parliament. We know that this report is now at half-time, and to a large extent also refers to the legacy of the previous government, which has also been mentioned as being very long-term in these processes. Thus, we have now placed ourselves in a new work programme, in order to make recommendations in terms of solutions, not only to monitor the implementation rate. So I can just say that. Besides, I'm tired of another thought. This opportunity to address this report has proved quite clear as an opportunity to discuss civil society and non-governmental organisations and our diversity, inconsistencies and so on, and I see very positive. I even came up with the idea that maybe one day a year Members could survive in a non-governmental organisation – of their choice – to experience a little bit of what it means to work in Slovenian NGOs. You probably know that this third sector is comparable in Slovenia to other countries in Europe, as well as transition countries, the worst developed, that there are still very many opportunities in terms of employment. Very different functions of a non-governmental organisation are carried out. Perhaps this as one recommendation that we also have direct connections here, which I think would still contribute to this dialogue. I very much liked this recommendation from the dialogue that various stakeholders exchange these views more intensively. I'm not going to go into any specific substantive comment because I think it was too much. Once again, thank you so much for this opportunity, for this presentation here. We are also looking forward to the next presentation in 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you. No amendments to the proposal were tabled. The meeting will decide on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly on Thursday, 16. 12. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 23rd A-point of the agenda, which is an exploratory proposal for a decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2011. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the decision, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the proposal for that decision at its 43rd urgent meeting on 8 December. On the basis of the budget for the following year, the Government provided the material by unanimously adopting a decision at the meeting of the Committee on the determination of the amounts under the law belonging to the individual political party for 2011. Let me remind you that we have done something similar for 2010 to determine these amounts on the basis of law, but in September we reduced them on the basis of the 2010 budget rebalancing. Therefore, we have before us a decision for 2011, which brings these funds back to their original position. To explain also for the public, we have been able to see in the media that we are increasing or intending to increase the amount for political parties by eight and a few tenths of a percent. That's not true. This data holds eight percent and that much if we compare the amounts received by political parties in the last three months of 2010 with those received in 2011. This means that we are actually bringing them back and increasing a little in terms of 1 January 20101-1. January 2011. The total amount for all political parties on the basis of the electoral result is 240 thousand 510.91 euros at monthly level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you. The proposal for a decision will be discussed in its entirety. Only Dr. Gorenak has been reported. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, so the assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the meeting's timetable on Thursday, 16. 12. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the content and purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on gambling. With the last amendment to the Act, which entered into force on 27 February this year, the Authority was given the power to impose restrictions on access to websites or other telecommunications networks, through which online gambling is organised without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the initiative of the professional public and information society service providers, we have drawn up a proposal for a law under which gambling would also be subject to regulation comparable to that of the Electronic Business Act on the market, although it does not apply to gambling. The new regime only allows the court to impose restrictions on access to the websites in the relevant court proceedings on information society service providers for precisely specified reasons. It is estimated that the power to restrict access to websites must be transferred from the supervisory authority to the court, as these are difficult and exceptional measures related to the restriction of freedom of the Internet and thus to freedom of expression. The key solutions to the bill are as follows. If a gambling provider does not implement a decision of the supervisory authority prohibiting gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Administrative Court may impose restrictions on access to the websites through which such games are organised. The proposal shall be forwarded to the Administrative Court by a supervisory authority which shall also propose the scope and manner of implementation of this restriction. The proceedings shall be swift, time-limits and remedies shall be the same as for the provisional order under the Administrative Dispute Act, so that the Administrative Court decides within seven days of receipt of the proposal by the supervisory authority, a complaint may be lodged within three days and the appeal shall be decided by the Supreme Court within 15 days. The procedures that are in place when the law is in force are completed under the old law. We believe that the proposed regulation allows effective and timely control of unauthorised gambling and that the scope of such infringements will be reduced while ensuring that requests for restricted access to websites are decided by the court and no longer by the administrative authority, ensuring adequate legal certainty for gambling operators or providers of access to websites. Taking into account the above, honourable Members and Members, we propose that you adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Gambling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Committee, Dr. Luka Yuri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Committee met at its 22nd meeting, on 1 December 2010. We were given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Commission, which made a comment to Article 3, and the Committee were also forwarded to the opinions of the two Commissions of the State Council, the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal, and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which does not support the proposal. The proposal was also forwarded to the Council of Justice and it did not send us any opinions. There were no amendments and there was no debate and the Committee proposes that the proposal be supported. But if you want more information, you have a written report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u104	Nice greeting to all in attendance! We have reviewed all the opinions, opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Economic, Trade and Tourism Council, the opinion of the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, the work, health and disability and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. When we have examined all matters, we have come to the view that, despite certain comments, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling is suitable for adoption. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which does not support it, has taken the view that the current legal solutions regarding the organisation of online gambling are entirely appropriate, sufficient and operationally effective. The current law contains a provision whereby the supervisory authority, the Office for the Control of Gambling, imposes restrictions on the provider of information society services to access websites or other telecommunications links through which such games are adapted. In the event of non-compliance, however, very high penalties are at stake. The Commission of the Council of State considers that, inter alia, by transferring the decision to the court for a temporary extension, this will have a negative impact on the timely prevention of illegal incursions by foreign operators of online gambling. However, the Ministry of Finance has ensured that these procedures will not constitute a significant delay. There is a rapid judicial procedure in which the Administrative Court decides within seven days and the time limit for the appeal is three days from the decision of the Supreme Court, i.e. from then on a case must be taken in the next fifteen days. The Administrative Court has also given its consent to such proceedings. We will support the law for all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u106	Good-bye! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, which was adopted in January 2010, introduced changes and additions in certain areas of gambling, in order to enforce socially responsible gambling arrangements and protect minors and other vulnerable persons from harmful effects and consequences of gambling and to increase the effectiveness of controls, particularly in the illicit organisation of gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The adopted law of January on the prevention of unauthorised gambling provides more specific services that have already been prohibited for persons who do not have a licence. Among these services is also the provision of access to websites or other telecommunications links through which you can participate in online gambling organised by persons who do not have a concession by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to increase the effectiveness of the gambling law, the supervisory authority has been given the power to impose restrictions on access to websites or other telecommunications through which online gambling without a government concession can be organised. This measure follows a decision prohibiting gambling issued by the supervisory authority to a person who arranges gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if the debtor fails to comply with the provision. The aim of this law is to ensure effective control over unauthorised gambling, but the measures to be applied must be only to the extent necessary to implement the decision banning gambling. The aim of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the Gambling Act is also to limit access from websites through which online gambling without concession is organised, to decide by the Court on a proposal from the supervisory authority. According to the proposal of the law, services that are prohibited for persons who do not have a concession to arrange gambling are deleted, quote, 'allowing access to websites or other telecommunications links through which online gambling can be attended'. End of quote. Since it is not clear from the text that it applies only to those providers of information society services providing services, the service is an ordered work for whom, usually for payment, so they are in a contractual relationship with persons who arrange gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the proposal of the law, only a court may impose a restriction on access to websites through which gambling without a concession is organised. The restriction of access is only possible to the extent necessary to implement the decision banning gambling and in a manner that is least burdensome for the information society service provider. The administrative court shall decide on the restriction of access on a proposal from the supervisory authority. The trial is quick. By adopting a proposal for a law, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia will be responsible for a new judicial procedure and complaints against the decision of the Administrative Court will be decided by the Supreme Court. This will increase the work of the courts, but given the number of proceedings so far, we believe that these proceedings will not increase the annual caseload in the courts more significantly. The number of decisions restricting access to websites is linked to the number of information society service providers and goes to a large number of cases for typical decisions relating to a smaller number of decisions prohibiting gambling without an appropriate concession. In cases where online gambling is not allowed, timely and effective measures will ensure that gambling in Slovenia is adapted in an orderly controlled environment and that the extent of the infringements will be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u107	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, the esteemed choir! By means of a legal proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implements an effective solution to ensure that providers of gambling which are organised without the concession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and do not implement the decision of the supervisory authority prohibiting gambling, the court imposes restrictions on access to the websites through which such games are organised. The decision to restrict access shall thus become the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and shall be exercised to the extent necessary to implement the decision prohibiting gambling. The Committee on Finance has so far expressed some concerns as to whether the determination of restricting access to online content by the Court is indeed the most effective solution since it has expressed doubts as to the ability of the judicial system to react quickly in cases of illegal online gambling. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons considered that the proposed amendments, when restricting access to websites through which online gambling without the concession of the Government of Slovenia would be decided by the Court on a proposal from the supervisory authority, would have a negative impact on the timely prevention of illegal incursions by foreign online gambling operators, as the proceedings through the court would temporarily prolong the decisions, which would lead the organisers to try to play Slovenian criminal standards despite the threatened penalties. The Commission drew attention to the fact that concessional gambling benefits have been falling in Slovenia for the last two years, which threatens the current scope of the activities of humanitarian and sports organisations. However, the majority opinion has prevailed that the attempt to put in place more effective measures in cases of illegal gambling as proposed is appropriate. The government followed the initiatives of both the professional public and information society service providers. There is a rapid judicial procedure in which the Administrative Court decides within 7 days and the time limit for the appeal is 3 days. However, the decision of the Supreme Court must be taken within 15 days. In drawing up the solutions envisaged by the proposed legislative novelties, the applicant also consulted with the representatives of the judiciary, and consent was given by the Administrative Court and the Council of Justice. The main objectives of the amendments and the completion of the gambling law are thus to remove the uncertainties in the definition of services prohibited for persons who do not have a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to arrange gambling, to ensure effective control over unauthorised gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The limitation of access to websites through which online gambling is organised without the concession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be decided by the Administrative Court on a proposal from the supervisory authority. One of the negative consequences that the law can bring is that the work of the courts will increase, but in the debate the view prevailed that these procedures will not significantly increase the case in court, but will ensure that in Slovenia gambling will be organised in an orderly and controlled environment and that the scope of the infringements will be reduced. We will therefore not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u110	Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the National Assembly this year, by law on amendments and additions to the law of the Office for the Control of Gambling, which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, we have placed in our hands the powers by which it can impose restrictions on access to foreign websites or other telecommunications links to the internet provider in Slovenia through which citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can access gambling or sports betting that do not have a permit or concession in Slovenia to carry out this activity. At that time, the Directorate for the Information Society of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology pointed out that the restriction of internet freedom was directly linked to the restriction of freedom of expression, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right. Critics were also heard from a number of information privacy experts, web portal editors and service providers, and that internet filtering of foreign websites is ineffective and that it is difficult and exceptional measures, which should only be within the jurisdiction of courts and not government offices. The Parliamentary Group did then support the law, but only on condition that the Government amends the provisions at issue, as their interpretation could lead to misuse of the Internet. Today, we are finally adopting a new law on gambling, which sets out measures to control illegal gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on websites, with a court ruling on a proposal from the supervisory authority to restrict access to websites through which online gambling is organised without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is exactly one year ago that we have adopted a new law on gambling, which is now also the reason that today there are changes and additions to the law on gambling. And if I say briefly, the problem is mainly because this government does not normally listen to the professional and civil public, let alone listen to any opposition, what non-digatious political party from the opposition, and would be more specific, professionally prepared and even last much longer. Therefore, it is our view that it is high time for all of us to be aware of the seriousness of this problem together, as social exclusion in the centre of power and apathy on the one hand and, on the other hand, the socio-political elite and its inviolability and omnipotence are certainly causing increasing dissatisfaction in Slovenian society. That, by the way, doesn't just belong to this law, but to a lot of people. We will support the proposed law because it is a necessary technical solution that could have been established earlier. We were reminded by the professional public at the time of the adoption of one of the previous amendments to the law, and we hope that we will learn from this too. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support amendments and additions to the gambling law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the proposed law and we will vote accordingly. In fact, it is not a major change to the applicable gaming legislation, but it interferes with the provisions relating to the control of illegal gambling without the Government's concession. With the proposed news that the restriction of access to websites through which online gambling is organised without a government concession, the court decides on a proposal from the supervisory authority, we agree with DeSUS Members. We believe that such a solution constitutes an acceptable compromise between the speed of proceedings and legal certainty. However, we are all aware that there is a new strategy of gambling in preparation at government level that will have an important impact on the further legal regulation of this area. Therefore, we will, probably even in this mandate, have to bite back into this apple and, on the basis of constructive discussions, we will have to adopt longer-term solutions to the legal regulation of gambling in Slovenia. At this point in time, when we have solutions that relate to more effective control of online gambling and to procedural provisions on restricting access to these online games, let me reiterate that we will also support this proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! The Slovenian National Party will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. And yet, with this miracle, none of your department's business is how these things go. It is perfectly normal – gambling is regulated by the law on gambling. With us, the law clearly states that in Slovenia only companies that obtain concessions from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are organizing gambling. And that, too, is perfectly clear. And a third point of view, which is perfectly legally clear that the setting up of gambling without permission or concession is defined as a criminal offence. And that should be enough to sanction all those who break the law — as in normal life. And, of course, we are surprised that an attempt to increase the effectiveness of control by restricting access and then someone in this Slovenia, because, of course, the only possibility here, assessed that the provision prohibiting access to websites or other telecommunications connections was, in other words, an offence, unacceptable. So someone thinks that the prohibition clause is unacceptable. And now "we have to go around our asses in verges", as we usually say, and we have to regulate things – that is, a violation of the Penal Code – with a supervisor who then makes the application and initiates the proceedings in court and so on. It is right that this has been arranged, and we are surprised to see why it is so arranged. If someone breaks the law, they break the law. It's over and it's over! And here there is no restriction that something should not be allowed, that any provision that prohibits someone from committing a crime is unacceptable. If we move on like this, I don't know where we're going. And then experts, like our secretary of state, have to work — that's why everything was quiet on the labour force — with proposals for such laws and looking for holes in how to punish those who violate the Penal Code. While, on the other hand, we have very large and difficult content in the area of the Ministry of Finance, but they also have to deal with it. Apparently, with the legal state of Slovenia something's not right. We will therefore support the proposal of the law, but we still do not understand how it is possible that such a course should have been taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to Mrs. Vraničar, colleagues and colleagues! If there is any mistake, any inconvenience, of course, the wise men correct it as soon as possible, and others repeat it indefinitely. Therefore, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Games in the Chamber of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The important thing is that it eliminates some discomfort, a problem, but it does not bring about major changes. In fact, the amendment of the law only refers to a definition that only a court may order the information service provider to restrict access to the website because the providers of such games are operating without a concession. In the current law, however, he had the power to restrict access to websites or other telecommunications links through which these games are adapted, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Gambling. The novelty itself states in the law that access restrictions are allowed only to the extent necessary to enforce a decision prohibiting gambling. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that this is an appropriate solution, since the previous regime did not make it clear that restricting access to information services refers exclusively and only to those services that are ordered by persons who inappropriately arrange gambling. We will therefore support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 16 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to go to 6. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the home registry. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u120	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the novel of the Mother Register Act is to re-enable the registration of death for all persons who lost their lives at the end of World War II or during World War II and their death has not yet been recorded in the mother books or in the home registry. This gives their victims the opportunity to demonstrate, in an easy and quick manner, the death of a person in legal proceedings and to obtain a death certificate in their home records, thereby facilitating them to regulate the rights arising from the Law on the Reparation of Crimes and the Law on Victims of War Violence. These are provisions already contained in the previous Law on Mother Books, but they expired in May 2009. In total, approximately 4000 600 deaths were recorded in the period from 27 May 1995 to 3 May 2009 on the basis of these provisions. In addition, the proposed amendment also deletes those provisions of the law relating to the special examination to be carried out by the holder. Training will be carried out in the same way as for the rest of the administrative units. The provision on the competence to register parental facts from abroad in the register shall also be amended. Since the parent registry is a centrally managed computer database, the parent fact may record any administrative unit that has acquired or has been provided with a legal basis for entering the fact. Since this is a matter of less difficult amendments to the law, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the law after a reduced procedure. We also propose that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to also draw up an officially consolidated text of the law approved by the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The proposed law was discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 25th session. 11. 2010, the proposer is the Government. The summary procedure was decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 79th meeting, on 15.10.2010. The material available to the members and members of the Committee was a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 6 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled within the time limit. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State said roughly what we had just heard from the Minister. In the presentation of their opinion, the representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, said that the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups fully followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In presenting their opinion, the representative of the Commission of the National Council of State said that they supported the proposal for a law. There was no debate on the committee. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition groups so that the integral text of the bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! With amendments and additions to the area of registration in the mother book or in the register, it is again possible to register death for all persons who lost their lives at the end of World War II and their death has not yet been recorded in the register of origin. The procedures for determining and entering death will also not be time-bound or time-limited. In fact, the solution follows the law on the correction of injustices and the law on victims of war violence, which do not have specific deadlines for filing claims. As has already been said, it should also be noted that the novels of the Mother Register Act, which relate to the abolition of a special examination for a parent, are new, but this does not mean that the mothers will be without training. The training of staff in the area of personal status management will be carried out directly by the body responsible for dealing with the area and the staff will also receive professional guidance and other professional assistance and additional education. As has already been said, the local jurisdiction of entries in the home registry is eliminated as this allows a centrally managed computer database. In view of the above, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Register of Mothers in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I can say that I am pleased that, for a long time, we have received a law that is a law that goes in the right direction and we will support this law. It is logical that the changes concerning the registration of the dead killed after World War II are that this must be extended for a fundamental reason, because the proceedings in this regard have been ongoing for years and years and, in fact, every so long, there is a cave in Slovenia or a mass grave and procedures in this regard, I think, must necessarily run continuously. This decision, too, not to set a limited time limit, is good for us and we welcome it. However, the definition of specific examinations is also supported if it is an integral part of the education of the parent, as it is meant to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The fact is, World War II and its associated horrors and events after the end of the war left a mark on our nation that we will probably never be able to erase. Above all, those individuals and their descendants, who still do not know what happened to their relatives at the time, will remain forever because they have wondered for over 60 years why their father, mother, son, aunt or uncle was never back. And to complete this agony, it takes very little happiness, at least to sign up as a person who died somewhere. And if the previous law is in good faith that by the time the deadline has been set, all procedures will be completed, if this has not happened, even because of the ever-new discovery of ever-new graves, even this is one of the reasons, then this period should be extended by amending the law. That is why we also support this law in the parliamentary group. We also support it for other reasons, which are addressed by this law, but which concern in particular administrative procedures and conditions for the execution of these works at the home offices or administrative units. As it is said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support these changes and additions to the Home Register Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The register of births, marriages and deaths of our and foreign nationals, which have been created in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, is an indication of the personal status of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are practically connected to the State Administration from birth to death and this connection is maintained by the Mother Register. When we are not even aware of our existence, i.e. by entering the register of birth, we first contact the government, and not least post festivals, when our death is recorded in the register, and in the meantime the marriages concluded, changes in personal status and possible repairs are recorded. And all these situations affect the status, rights and obligations of both individuals, who are guided by these data personally, and of others who are related to them in any way. Therefore, these data of the home registry must be complete, formal, transparent in order to cover time as soon as possible after the event has occurred. This is also the main reason for the fact that in the first five years the parent facts are maintained electronically and no longer in the classical sense. This novel practically follows all the fundamental leaders followed by the regulation of the home registry. It allows death to be recorded for all those who lost their lives at the end of World War II. In particular, this is a group of victims of mass post-war beatings and their death has not yet been recorded in their home records, which has not yet been regulated by their personal status. This gives the victims the opportunity to prove, in an easy and quick manner, the death of a person without any costs in administrative proceedings and to request the registration of death in the register of origin and to obtain death certificates for them [[Deadly Lists]] , which are the basis for obtaining rights in procedures governed by the Law on the Correction of Blame and the Law on Victims of War Violence. The position of the DeSUS Group on the content of this proposal is positive. It is more than necessary to regulate the personal status or status of these persons, so we will contribute to their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u132	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! The amendment of the law will again allow for the registration of the death of people who died during and after World War II. The Law on the Correction of Crimes and the Law on Victims of War Violence do not set deadlines for the lodging of claims. The Mother Books Act of 1995 allowed for the entry into the book of the dead during and after World War II only on the basis of a court case. The legal period was initially set at 5 years for the purpose of assessing, if necessary, the determination and registration of death and was subsequently extended until May 2009. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions simplifies the registration of the death of persons who died during or immediately after World War II, of which the events are time-consumingly remote, on the basis of the applicant's statement to the minutes, and is not limited only to closer kinship, which will allow for a faster conclusion of procedures that are still open and have not been completed. Above all, the new law will favor those still unexplored and confirmed statements by those who referred to the victims of postwar massacres after World War II, whose status has not yet been regulated. It also amends the provision relating to the special examination of a parent who will no longer be required after the new but will be carried out in the same way as is necessary for the work area in administrative units. The provisions of the law on jurisdiction for the entry into the register of origins from abroad shall also be amended. Since the parent register is centrally maintained, the parent procedure and entry may be carried out by any administrative unit having legal basis, irrespective of local jurisdiction. We have assessed in the Slovenian National Party that the law has been significantly improved and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! The provisions of the draft law on the register of origin relating to the procedure for determining the registration of death allow the applicants of the procedure in a simplified manner to identify death in administrative proceedings and to facilitate the obtaining of death certificates and thus the exercise of rights arising from the Law on the Correction of Crimes and the Law on Victims of War Violence. However, those provisions allow authorities responsible for the management of personal status to harmonise official records with the actual situation or a more complete register of personal status. This law also regulates the job of a parent or his education. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that the issue of death registrations should also be regulated in the public interest, in order to align the parent records with the actual situation. Maternal books or home registers are official records that record all parental facts, births, marriages and death and other changes in legal relations affecting changes in the personal status of citizens. Registrations shall normally be carried out on an official basis on the basis of relevant documents, applications, decisions, judgments of competent authorities, irrespective of the interests of individuals and the wishes of relatives. The legal basis for the registration of death that occurred during or immediately after the war, and in the register of origin, after the law in force, can only be the decision of the court which was issued in the proceedings for the declaration of a missing person as dead or in the procedure for the proof of death under the provisions of the Unfair Procedure Act. Until death is recorded in the birth register, the mother’s death certificate cannot be issued before the mother’s death book, the death certificate, which is a public document proving the existence of death. The proposed regulation of the procedures for the identification and registration of death before the administrative authority will also relieve the work of the courts in the procedures for the declaration of missing persons as dead and in the procedures for the proof of death. With the bill before us, we strive to resolve life situations in cases of death as easily and quickly as possible for the individual and for the body responsible for the management of personal status. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Mothers reintroduces a special procedure for the identification and registration of the death of persons who died during or immediately after World War II whose death has not yet been entered into the register of origin which was in force until May 2009, since, following the termination of the provisions of Article 19a to Article 19d of the Law on Mother Books, it has been shown that there is still an interest in these proceedings. The substance of the proposed arrangement is that the procedures for determining death are carried out by administrative units and that the procedure for determining death is also simplified due to the timing of events, since only the applicant's statement on the minutes is considered proof of death. The rightful circle of applicants of the procedure is also defined as the widest and is not limited only to close relatives. The main reason for such a legal arrangement is the fact that it is also in the interests of the rule of law that the status of deceased persons whose deaths have not yet been registered is definitive. We will support the LDS in all of the above-mentioned proposals of the Home Register Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u136	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The law on the abolition of the date or deadline for the registration of the deceased in the mother book is necessary because the procedures for determining the death of those who died early after World War II are still incomplete, new graves are being discovered again and again, there are still no relatives of the death certificate, yet to some extent there is no register of their citizens who died at that time. I believe that the marriage solution is such that it covers the interests of the relatives of the deceased and the public interest in terms of the consistent management of the lists and the list of the deceased in the records, which is why the law is well prepared and necessary. The fact that the parents will no longer perform the examination for this job does not bother them, since education will take place as is done for all those public servants who need special knowledge to carry out their work. I believe that the law is fully prepared as announced in the introduction, and that is why the Group of Non-Aligned Members supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 16 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I'm handing the lead over to my colleague Klavori.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u138	We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on the amendment and the addition of the law on the forest, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, but there is no one present. We must have made a little hasty with our agenda. I'm on it. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u139	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 24th session. 12. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Institute for Forests, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers of Slovenia, the Union of State Organs of Slovenia and the Union of the Institute for Forests of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that when a law is submitted to the legislative procedure containing provisions directly affecting the situation and rights of the local community, a proposal for a law shall be sent to the local communities for an opinion. Within a period of one month of business, no local community forwarded an opinion to the draft law. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which did not support the draft law, in particular because of the vagueness of the text of the third indent of Article 1 of the draft law. This ambiguity was subsequently adequately addressed by the adoption of the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to this Article. Members of the committee also received a letter from the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia reminding them that activities have been under way to regulate the situation of employees with higher education in the Slovenian Forestry Institute for more than ten years and proposing that employees in the Slovenian Forestry Institute be treated equally with regard to the specificities of the laws applicable to employees in other public sector activities. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a concrete comment on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law. The footnote to Article 1 is taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to this Article and has also been adopted by the Committee. This is an amendment to the sixth paragraph of Article 47 of the Law on Forests, which will allow for the division of those parts of plots less than five hectares whose intended use in the applicable spatial acts is not defined as forest. It will also be possible to divide those plots less than five hectares co-owned by the Republic of Slovenia or the local community. With regard to Article 2 of the proposal, however, the Legislative and Legal Service considered that the proposed solution to this Article, by which the applicant, namely the Government, provides for education and work experience that could be equated with the educational conditions to be met by the employees of the Forestry Office in order to carry out the tasks of the public forestry service, is not legal matter, and in particular is not the substance of this law. The establishment of educational conditions for the performance of public forest service tasks is left to the legislative and legal service under the law. Under Article 52 of the Law on Forests, the Minister is allowed to lay down the required educational and other conditions for the performance of the public forestry service by means of a sub-law. Thus, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed solution to the law introduces an exception which is non-systematic and does not belong to the law. The representatives of the Slovenian Institute for Forests and the Slovenian Agricultural and Economic Chamber participated in the debate on this issue, which supported the proposed solutions, and the representative of the Chamber specifically pointed out that the Government should open some other issues in the preparation of the proposed novel, such as the implementation of professional work in forestry, the construction of roads and so on. The members of the Committee did not discuss the proposed solutions, given the Government's explanation regarding Article 2, in which it is specifically stated that the proposed solution is coordinated with both the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance and partly in line with the Office of the Government for Law, the Committee did not decide on any amendment to the Article. As it is said, the Committee has adopted the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 and has also adopted both articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the Committee has drawn up a supplementary proposal for a law incorporating the adoption of an amendment. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The last amendment to the Forest Act was adopted in 2007 and was then made to prevent further reduction of the average forest area size. Among others, the distribution of forest plots of less than five hectares was then prohibited. This provision has made an effective contribution to reducing deforestation in Slovenia, but in practice it has been shown that there have been problems in the process of amending municipal spatial acts. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the solutions proposed in this novel are good and, of course, we support them. Since it is only a matter of minor changes in the law, let us mention the addition of Article 70, which deals with exceptions to the conditions for the employment of certain jobs at the Institute for Forests in Slovenia. The solution is meaningful and we support it. On the other hand, we wonder why the Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food has not supported other issues related to the amendment of the Law on Forests, particularly in the field of the implementation of professional work in forestry and the resolution of forest transport. Finally, these initiatives were very clearly expressed by the Forest Owners Association at the time of the public presentation of this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Ministry to follow initiatives in the future and to accede to the additional amendments to the Forest Act as soon as possible. Today's amendment of the law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u143	Forests cover as much as 60% of the area of the Republic of Slovenia and are our largest natural resource. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of and have for a long time warned that forests must be subject to careful, responsible management. This allows only enough large forest plots, which also have a clear purposeful use in spatial plans, this is a forest. Too much fragmentation of private forest plots is a big problem for us because management of such forests is very difficult because of the small interest of owners. As a result, forests are poorly maintained, they are growing, and the quality of wood is getting worse. The 2007 Forest Act had a good purpose as it sought to prevent further deforestation of forest plots less than 5 hectares. Unfortunately, in practice, there was a situation where a separate spatial plan on the work of a forest plot prescribed a different purposeful use, but that use could not be carried out, since the provisions of Article 47, paragraph 6, of the Forest Land Act made it impossible to distribute it because it was less than 5 hectares. The amended Article 1 of the Act, adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, follows the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the inequality of the situation of denationalising beneficiaries and other citizens, and unequivocally provides that forest parcels less than 5 hectares may be shared if their owner is the Republic of Slovenia or the local community, but not the individual beneficiary who has already received the land plot returned in the denationalisation process in nature, as was the original dictate of this paragraph. Members of the Slovenian People's Party also support the intention of the proposed law that the tasks of the forestry service for which first-level higher education is required may also be carried out by workers with higher education and relevant work experience. The household service is one of the specific services in the public sector, and we therefore believe that the specificities of this service, particularly the position of higher education employees, must be regulated by law rather than by law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we ask why the Government did not try to resolve other open issues when drafting the bill, as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has been pointing out for a long time the improvement of the regulation of the construction of forest roads and more detailed arrangements for the implementation of professional work in forestry. We fear that we will soon have to amend the Law on Forests again, which is not too smart in terms of the stability of the agricultural acquis. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law because we believe it solves some problems that arise in practice and adequately limits further problems of forest land.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is also given to the minister and coworkers! It was submitted that the amendments to the Forest Act relate to two sets, namely, targeted forest management for the first time, in terms of establishing exceptions to the principle limit on deforestation of forest plots less than 5 hectares. In practice, such a restriction has proved to be non-lifelike in certain situations, e.g. where a dedicated use is provided in municipal spatial acts in such a parcel or part thereof and where the division is necessary for the construction of roads and other public infrastructure. Secondly, the rights of employees are governed in accordance with the rules and collective agreement. It is a matter of regulating the situation of employees in forestry activities, in professional forestry jobs. The introduction of a new pay system and the termination of the training programme for forest engineers VI. the rates have led to the failure of employees to meet the prescribed conditions, despite their expertise and long-term practical experience in this field. It is therefore necessary to adapt this provision of the basic law. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. We are also giving an initiative and a proposal to reflect on the early resolution of open issues in this area that have not been subject to the proposed amendments today. It was also mentioned earlier that it was proposed that the matter should be fully resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected minister, a coworker, a colleague and a colleague! With the Act on amendments and amendments to the Law on Forests, there are actually two additions or two objectives. First, the regulation, the possibility of dividing forest plots less than 5 hectares in the cases provided for by this law: if there is no specific use of forest in such parcels, or if there is a construction of public infrastructure and where parcels returned in the nature of the denationalisation beneficiary and the amendment complements the proposal or condition that parcels are co-owned with the Republic of Slovenia or the local community. The second addition and proposed solution or objective is to regulate the legal basis for the provision of the conditions for the recruitment of certain posts at the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not see any reasons for not supporting the proposed amendments and supplementing as well as the amendments, especially when we see that the proposer also has the consent or support of relevant institutions such as the Slovenian Forestry Institute and the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, of course with all additional comments, questions and initiatives. We also consider the warnings and concerns of our Law-Legal Service to be justified, in particular with regard to the solutions proposed under Article 2, that is, the establishment of educational conditions for the performance of certain public forestry tasks and we fully agree with the Minister's mandate to lay down educational conditions and other conditions for employment in this Act. The same applies to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service in the provision in Article 1, where a question could be raised in respect of respect for the principle of equality, namely in the third indent of Article 47 in the sixth paragraph. As has already been said in the introduction, we support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party and we will vote in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Welcome to the Minister and Director of the Directorate. What about the marriage? The time is needed, the time is right, it is a new law on forests, which includes only a change of two articles, although in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that in the coming periods we should also consider amending the legal regime of this area, since the law has already been in place since 1993, and it has already had a varied history and a venerable age. But we certainly accept and support the marriage novel. With amendments and additions to the Forest Act in 2007, a ban on the distribution of forest plots less than 5 hectares was achieved. This was necessary in order to prevent further reduction of the average size of forest land, which is certainly a major problem at global level in Slovenia, as most private forest holdings are already so small that forest management is in practice impossible. However, in practice, the implementation of this provision has shown a weakness, namely the prohibition of the division of parcels whose part of the existing spatial acts already has a different purpose, such as building plots, agricultural land and the like. The amendment to paragraph 6 of Article 47 of the Law on Forests will allow, despite the existing limit of 5 hectares, the division of only those parts of parcels whose intended use in the applicable spatial acts is not defined as forests. The division of parcels of less than 5 hectares co-owned with the Republic of Slovenia or the local community and private owners will also be possible. In the State Council, the idea was expressed that in the division of parcels, denationalising beneficiaries were privileged. Therefore, the indent relating to denationalisation parcels with the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups at the meeting of the parent committee was amended by allowing the division of all parcels co-owned with the Republic of Slovenia or the local community. The amendment to Article 70 of the Law further regulates the exception to the conditions for the employment of certain posts at the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of a collective forest activity contract in 2008 created 5 jobs for the rebreed forester, in education from higher education to university education. Until 2008, only one working place was organised at the Institute for the Forest of the Republic of Slovenia, with the required higher education. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that there are legal changes and innovations on the ground, so we will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me briefly present the position of the Solidarity Group, which has been defined up to both proposed amendments or additions. In fact, both constitute an exception to other principles. As for the change or legal regulation of the status of forest workers, we support this change. We believe that it is justified, because such work, as required by appropriate education, is in fact carried out, does not take account of the formal diploma obtained. As regards other exceptions, however, there are exceptions to the principle of forest protection. We believe that forests must be adequately protected, that they must be strictly protected because they perform many functions. This is not only an economic function, a function of logging, but these are, above all, even more important functions of conservation forests, functions that enable either recreation, the development of tourism, either aesthetic, educational and other values. And all this is in the woods to keep in mind. Therefore, this exemption for the distribution of these parcels is justified only provided that we replace it with other benefits provided by the possibility of building public infrastructure, whether municipal or road. But we ask ourselves why this is only possible for public infrastructure, why not for some private forest that might significantly shorten the other way to home, both municipal and road connections. We agree that it is necessary to allow spatial plans to be adopted by municipalities to be implemented, so we also support this exception – the mitigation of forest protection. We also agree that it is necessary to allow conditions for denationalisation decisions to be implemented. Since these proposals are functionally meaningful, the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity also supports them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We are considering the amendment to the Law on Forests, which amends the sixth paragraph of Article 47, in order to allow for the distribution of parcels for other purposes, not only for the forest, even in the case of agricultural land or building land, and also for cases where the parcel has been returned in the process of denationalisation in nature. He is therefore trying to deal with the needs of life, which also stem from the development policies that touch forests, and not least because of the denationalisation commitments. The second amendment also concerns the burning problem that is detected in the Institute of Forests, for workers with higher education acquired under the higher education system under higher education programmes adopted 1. 1. 1994, and have 12 years of working experience in jobs with the required higher education. It is of interest to the Institute for Forests that foresters, forest engineers with higher education, can also occupy the jobs envisaged for higher education. As it is also an experience gained by foresters after 12 years, we believe that such a solution is appropriate, and we support this law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 12th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 23rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. At the same time, I remind you to continue our work at 5 p.m. with the opening of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
