ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the defence motion for a law on the necessary majority for the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Vice-President Franc Yuri for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Policy shall be held at its 24th meeting, on 14 February. 1. 2010 discussed the proposal for a law on the necessary majority for the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2009 by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law, a written opinion from the Commission of the State Council on International Relations and European Affairs and a written opinion from the Government. The committee shall meet with a representative of the proposer, Mag. Mr Žerjav explained that, pursuant to Article 86 of the Constitution, the proposer proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law setting out the two-thirds majority of all members of the National Assembly necessary for the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As a representative of the Government, Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar said that the Government does not support the bill. The Government's opinion was further substantiated by Dr. Janez Pogorec, Director of the Government's Law Service, who explained that the Government fully supports the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the State Council, Vincenc Otonik, President of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs, presented the opinion of the Commission, which did not support the proposal for a law. The representative of the Constitutional and Legal Service, Katarina Kralj, presented the written opinion of the ZPS, which shows that there are serious concerns about the constitutional admissibility of the adoption of the law, which alone would set the necessary majority for the adoption of another law, and the legal effect of such law is also very questionable, since the infringement of the legal or commercially defined rules of the legislative procedure under established jurisprudence is not, as a rule, legally sanctioned. The legislative and legal service first answers the transitional question at the principle level, whether it is constitutionally permissible to adopt a law which alone determines the majority necessary for the adoption of another law. The question is raised for the first time, since so far no draft law has set a majority for the adoption of a second bill. The Legislative and Legal Service considers that the Constitution, as the highest legal act in the country, can indisputably provide for a more complex majority than provided for in Article 86 of the Constitution, but the interpretations of Article 86 of the Constitution raise doubts as to the admissibility of the statutory regulation of the majority required for the adoption of the law. It follows from the historical and purposeful interpretation of the constitutional provision that it was the intention of the founder to provide for the possibility that the law could prescribe a more difficult majority for the adoption of other taxes under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, including, in particular, decisions concerning elections and the appointment of public function holders, but that this does not apply to the adoption of laws even through a systematic interpretation, the regulation of a more difficult majority for the adoption of legislation is reserved only by the Constitution. It is therefore constitutional matter; Article 86 of the Constitution must also be interpreted in conjunction with paragraph 2 91. The Constitution, which provides that a majority of all Members shall vote in favour of a re-decision on a decision-making veto, unless the Constitution for the adoption of the law in question provides for a higher number of votes. As a result, in the view of the ZPS, this means that a more difficult majority for the adoption of legislation can be prescribed only by the Constitution and not by law or other legal act hierarchically lower than the Constitution. The next meeting was followed by a debate between Members and Members. Representatives of opposition and parliamentary groups expressed support for the adoption of the bill. The representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups did not fully support the bill, they agreed with the opinion of the SPS, which, in their view, very well explained why it was not possible to adopt the law. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, adopted a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler of the Magi Act. Radovan Žerjav for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The establishment of territory and the declaration of the sovereignty of the people in its territory is the sovereign right of the Republic of Slovenia. Both proclaimed the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The sovereignty of the people is determined by the first section and the territory of the Republic of Slovenia by its second section. The borders with Italy, Austria and Hungary were regulated in Yugoslavia by international agreements between Austria, Italy and Hungary and Yugoslavia, on the other hand. In the wake of the independence of this border, which Yugoslavia has regulated with these countries through international treaties, Slovenia has designated as its national borders with the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter. At the time of the adoption of the Basic Constitutional Charter, i.e. at the time of Slovenia's independence, she had not yet been the successor of the international treaties concluded by Yugoslavia and had not yet been regarded as a single country. It was therefore necessary to establish the limits by means of a Fundamental Constitutional Charter. The basic constitutional charter therefore redefines the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, resulting from the borders with Italy, Austria and Hungary, which have been defined as borders between these countries and the former Yugoslavia, and from the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in the context of the completion of Yugoslavia, which we know was established only on land and never on the sea. The Arbitration Agreement also gives the arbitrators in its Article 3 the power to determine the course of the border on land and the determination of the boundary at sea. An arbitration agreement shall be an international treaty on the basis of which a decision of the arbitral tribunal will be adopted. The second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter will be supplemented by establishing a maritime boundary. The sea boundary will therefore be set for the first time and for a new one, as it has not yet been established. This determination will thus complement the second section of the Charter, or Constitution itself, if you will. In this case, there is no doubt that the exercise of the work of sovereign rights is transferred to an entity outside our national jurisdiction. Thus, in this point, the Arbitration Agreement intervenes in the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter, which sets the limits of the Republic of Slovenia. Respectable. Arbitrators will not determine the course of the border, they will determine the boundary at sea, and in the history of Slovenia we will determine the boundary at sea for the first time. And whatever we do, or whatever we do, it is about transferring the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia to someone else outside our country. These are, of course, strong arguments that ratification of the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly should take place in one way or another with a two-thirds majority already under the existing provision of Article 3a of the Constitution. Dear Members and Members! We have before us one of the most important issues in the history of Slovenia, as the decision of the arbitral tribunal may also be at the expense of Slovenia and its vital national interests. It will depend on this decision whether Slovenia will continue to be a maritime state. For this reason, in policy on such an important point and issue, we must decide on a responsible and state-of-the-art basis and reach a broad political national consensus that, due to the weight of the decision, would give legitimacy to such ratifications, to vote in such cases, according to our assessment, is out of the question. We must consciously decide that a document as important as the arbitration agreement will be decided by a two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the draft law on the necessary majority to ratify the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After almost 19 years, the Gordija knot to find a way to resolve the border issue between the Republics has been dismantled by the signing of an arbitration agreement by the Presidents of the two republics. Ratification agreements are ongoing, but I doubt and reservations about such an important national issue as the issue of the territory of the country are far from being resolved, not in the field of politics or in the general public, either in any of the countries involved. Members of the DeSUS Group expect that at least to a minimum, the dilemmas will be resolved after the Constitutional Court and citizens have also announced their views on the Arbitration Agreement at the forthcoming referendum. By also giving the National Assembly, Members, when we decide on the ratification itself, a clearer direction will be given to the adoption of the ratification decision. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposaler that the content of the Arbitration Agreement is of such nature and weight that its ratification should be decided by 2/3 of the majority of all Members, thereby achieving sub-party unity and qualified consensus among the representatives of the people. However, it is important to ask whether the legal proposal proposed by Members is the right choice, which was also sufficient and sustainable in terms of constitutionality. We cannot give a positive answer to this question in the DeSUS Group because we have concluded that there are indeed concerns about the constitutional admissibility of the adoption of legislation, for which there are several arguments that have been put forward by the expert services of the National Assembly, the Government and other experts in their opinions. We therefore agree with the conclusion and explanation of the legal profession that Article 86 of the Constitution provides for the provision of a different majority of the law than the ordinary one for the adoption of laws, other definitions and ratifications of international treaties and that the purpose of these provisions must also be chosen on the basis of other methods of interpretation and legal rules. A further argument, which can be drawn from the content of legal opinions, is a general rule under which it is not permissible for a legal act adopted by a less demanding majority to be adopted by the legislator to adopt a more difficult majority legal act. That ratification is sufficient for the common majority, it should be recalled that the Arbitration Agreement does not refer to the transfer of certain sovereign rights to international organisations, since, in the first place, it is not a matter of new opinions. Secondly, the ad hoc arbitral tribunal does not correspond to international legal entities according to the criteria of international law. In addition, it is known that some countries conclude such agreements even at government level by signing between governments. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia also enjoys the support of the European Union and other international entities. Therefore, we will not support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. We will support the Committee's decision that the proposal for a law on the necessary majority ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between Slovenia and Croatia is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we are trying all the time to see how experts who decide everything together should be easy, because most people in the National Assembly do not have the courage to decide for themselves the fate of their own country, so we need to look for such and different legal opinions, just to make excuses, because experts have said so. When it is said that the agreement enjoys the support of the European Union and other international actors, this is only vile and frightening and volatile. Because what we care about, what Europe does and what it says. Europe is for its own interests, not for Slovenia's interests. And for most of us in this House, they are also more concerned about all other interests than the interests of their own country. "Pick" you gentlemen, what's going to happen to our country? And I think that it is reasonable and urgent to support this bill, which sets out a two-thirds majority when voting on all of this. Opinions, both governments and legal and regulatory services, are also concerned with technical matters, content is avoided. Because it's the content that talks about our country. It's mine. Maybe yours isn't. Maybe you're already learning Croatian. Perhaps you have already prepared some cocoon down in the south to be taken into their lease when they come here and demand a Croatian speech in Slovenia. We're getting close to that. And that's what you do. And you're pushing us back into this embrace of the former Balkans because that's what they told you in Europe. They agree, they support this agreement. One wonders if the National Assembly is even a legislator. Or should he even suggest anything else, because immediately after the end, some Croatian psychiatrists and they say no, it can't be done, it can't be done, but what the Constitutional Court will say - as if they're an alpha and an omega. It's like we don't have common sense, and I'd say we may not have it. At least half of them don't have history in here, not even less patriotism, not at all. It's all a pity, some jerk, some stomping in the swamp. It's in here. Instead of telling us where we are, what we are and why we are. The border with Croatia was never established after 1918 because they always stole our Slovenian territory. Interestingly, in World War II, the German Nazi governors of the coastal province, the Adriatisches Küstenland units, demanded that Istria and the three Quarner Islands join the work of the Slovenian national territory, because the Nazis knew where our territory was and now you do not know. Is that how the communists brainwashed you or what?Oh, my God! Do you care whether you still blow into that horn of brotherhood and unity, and when you go to wrestling, your pants tremble, and you do not know what to do, but drool so that you may come down to them more? I think it's sad. It's fucking sad. And you're doing this to the coalition gentlemen because you don't care about your country. You say we'll find ourselves, because in this term we're going to raise some more money in our pockets, and then it doesn't matter how we talk, because we don't know how to speak Slovenian, but we're going to speak another language as badly as we do. It's that miserable thing, it's that bastard in here in the National Assembly who should be the flower of the Slovenian nation and the flower of the one who has the most patriotic feelings for his country. No, "fuck" you, but just go to "where the bull goes, let it go." You are creating a large independent country of Croatia. Croats are just clapping and laughing when they watch some calves and some ignorant people sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, not to speak at all about our government, so low a level and so little spirit, corruption, intelligence. I mean, terrible. We're going to support this law, but I know it won't go through, because we need to get everybody's ass up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body that the law proposed is not necessary and that it does not achieve what some would like to tell the Slovenian public in any way to protect Slovenian interests more than the official positions and activities carried out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly. It is more than obvious that it is not necessary to interpret today in the National Assembly what this agreement should mean, it is simply that, from the time the agreement is made public and when the Slovenian public can convince itself of what the Arbitration Agreement should regulate and in what way they should participate in the arbitration, how both countries, Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, will cooperate with their proposals, with their initiatives, with documentation, including with a proposal for a member of the arbitration panel, that there are sufficient guarantees not to give rise to any weaknesses or obvious situations that are supposed to occur. We have no privileges in the National Assembly, nor will citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the privilege of participating in the referendum, which is expected to set a limit, at least in the National Assembly, at the referendum. The limits which are not specified cannot be determined unilaterally by one State but must be laid down in an agreement with another State or, if these two are not successful, some forms of intervention, aid must be used and one of them is arbitration. I would be and we would be more pleased in the Liberal Democracy if we could achieve this through mediation. It can also take place in the course of all activities so that we can come to it. But because we know and believe that now is a time when, after 20 years, we should not miss the opportunity to take a step forward and settle what many governments on the one hand and on the other have failed in the 20s, that it is a question of the unregulated issue of border to the detriment of both countries, that it is a matter of making it impossible for many to make a more correct path, cooperation between countries, in economic, political and other fields, and that is why it is up to us to decide. We believe and know that Slovenia has been a maritime state - it is and will - and everything that is to be settled through the Arbitration Agreement will also be what is in fact a fear, thus eliminating any doubt that Slovenia could lose something that it has now. Of course, the two-thirds majority are not the fateful limit, the quorum, which would be determined to make decisions in the National Assembly more qualitative. I believe there is no shame in everyone who thinks it is necessary for a two-thirds majority to join those who will vote in favour of the agreement that we will give our vote. And if they advocate a two-thirds majority, it is simple and easy to give their vote "for" and the two-thirds majority will be achieved. For our legal practice, for constitutional order and for future decisions in the National Assembly, it would be wrong to regulate a special majority for a particular case, as there was also a great deal of professional controversy in the public. Opinions are distinctly different. And, as it is said, from the moment the agreement is made public, in our opinion, public conviction is such that it is necessary to continue to follow the path we have set for ourselves. In the end, decisions will also be verified at the final stage of the referendum. This convinces us of the fact that we support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Also a nice greeting to the Minister and co-workers and the representative of the Government's Law Office. The Group of Social Democrats agrees with at least three points raised by the applicants in their explanation of the proposed law. The first is that the arbitration agreement is undoubtedly one of the most important issues in the period of independent and independent Slovenia. Another time. They highlighted the need to reach a political and national consensus. And thirdly, they stressed the legitimacy of ratification. We agree with all of this, but unfortunately the actual situation shows that there is no consensus at the moment, and all the opposition parties have made that clear. It follows that the adoption of that law, which would require an absolute majority to ratify the Arbitration Agreement, would not change anything, as some of you have already decided in advance that you will not support the arbitration agreement under any circumstances. Another problem is when we are talking about the legislative process or when we are talking about whether it is actually permissible, in terms of constitutionality and legality, to propose a law with such content in the legislative procedure. By the time our constitution was established in the 1990s and 91st century, we were very sensitive to the question of what majority of laws should be adopted in the National Assembly. It is precisely because of the sensitivity of the subject today that our Constitution specifies in which cases some laws with two-thirds of the votes of all Members, when with two-thirds of the Members present, when with an absolute majority of the votes and when with the ordinary majority of the votes of the Members present. The normal majority is a general principle and thus provides a relatively high degree of autonomy for the National Assembly in the adoption of laws. It is, of course, legitimate to discuss whether by ratifying an arbitration agreement, they would actually transfer the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations, as referred to in Article 3A of the Constitution. And there are also very conflicting views of constitutional experts, who are, unfortunately, mostly recognizable also in terms of which political options are more favoured by individual experts. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the Government has already proposed to the Constitutional Court that it deliver an opinion on its compliance with the Constitution in the ratification process of the international treaty. It is said that we have obtained an additional safeguard that will be decisive to answer whether this arbitration agreement is legal and whether it is constitutionally permissible. The third guardian, however, represents a announced referendum where it is logical for the National Assembly to take into account the majority will of the people, even though it will be expressed only in a survey or consultation referendum. Once again, let me stress that in the Group of Social Democrats, of course, we are aware that this is an important issue. It is undoubtedly in the interests of the entire coalition that the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement should be adopted by as many votes of support as possible. However, from all the above aspects, a procedural error is essential for the parliamentary group and a law would be adopted setting out the necessary majority for the adoption of another law. This would constitutionally be a fairly unacceptable violation of the Constitution, especially the established system of constitutionality and legality in the Constitution. We support the proposed decision of the home working body in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Our Group will not support the proposal adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy that the Arbitration Agreement should not be adopted by a qualified absolute majority. In fact, it is an extremely important document, an extremely important material, with which the national territory is also being changed. The territory of the State may also be changed for such matters as the change of territory or interference with the Charter of Fundamental Constitutional Charter, as the case has been said in a clear legal opinion by the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Čebulj, that this may be an infringement of the Charter of Fundamental Constitutional Charter, was adopted by a two-thirds majority and any amendment thereto must be adopted by a two-thirds majority. In the SDS Group, we believe that this is also, this law helps the Government to be able to get out of an extremely unpleasant situation when it believed in any promises made by the other party, when it also accepted all the conditions of the Swedish Presidency following the rapid withdrawal of Slovenian concerns about the subsequent negotiations of the Croatian side. We must be aware that, in fact, Slovenia has been in an extremely good position because of the panic in Croatia, due to the panic in the European Union. Although some countries have tried to force us to do so, they have in some ways proposed the withdrawal of all these reservations, which the Slovenian government has also accepted uncritically, at a wrong time. Because further developments testify to the fact that at the moment this promise was made, when this arbitration agreement was signed at government level, things began to take place in a completely different direction. If the Croatian side had become radical again, again, I would say, uncommunicative, unbelievably credible, and that it has made a very thorough use of all this benevolence of Prime Minister Pahor. Now, of course, Mr Pahor is unable to get himself out of this situation. We are witnessing these meetings, where it is more concerned with color coordination than with Slovenian interests. And in such a situation, 2/3 of the majority in the adoption of this arbitration agreement is necessary. Another event that may concern us is a message from the Kingdom of Sweden to close the embassy in the Republic of Slovenia. When the interests of the Swedish Presidency and the Swedish Presidency were met, Slovenia was informed that Slovenia would be one of the countries in which the embassy would be closed. We know that Swedish Foreign Minister Karl Bildt has always been in Croatian positions and on the Croatian side. And we can rightly assume that this agreement, with such support, has been written in an explicit way for the benefit of Croatia. It can happen that Slovenia will be covered even from Zagreb, by Sweden, and these are only the parallel events that lead us all to realize together that we must defend Slovenia's interests, that we must think carefully, go to the place. Therefore, 2/3 of the majority is necessary when adopting this Arbitration Agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly. The Zares Group will not support the draft law on the necessary majority to ratify the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The applicant refers to the possibility offered by Article 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia after his interpretation. However, in its well-written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave unequivocal legal reasons for rejecting such interpretation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly defines the areas of decision-making by a qualified two-thirds majority. This may also be provided for in the law, but not in the way the applicant wishes to apply it on a case-by-case basis. 86. Article 86 of the Constitution reads as follows: "The Council of State shall decide if the majority of Members attend the meeting. The National Assembly shall adopt laws and other decisions and ratify international treaties by a majority of the votes of the Members present when a different majority is not established by the Constitution or by law." The Legislative and Legal Service has justifiably concluded that that Article cannot be understood as the possibility that ad hoc laws adopted by ad hoc may provide for the necessary majority for other laws. In its justification, the applicant also cites a number of examples from practice in the EU, but none of them detect the proposer's comparable solutions. In most cases, confirmations of international treaties are left to governments, presidents or sovereign monarchs, only in some cases to parliaments. The two-thirds majority for the ratification of specific international treaties relating to the derogation of sovereignty or the amendment of the border is provided for in only two of the six recorded cases, but nowhere and never required a two-thirds majority to ratify an intergovernmental arbitration agreement or to deal with a dispute in an international court. In view of the cases cited by the applicant, Slovenia would be insolvent at the time of the adoption of such a law, which we are considering today. International courts, including arbitration courts, are institutions to which we recognise the role and competence of resolving bilaterally insolvent disputes. The Slovenian-Croatian border dispute is, unfortunately, such a nature. So far, all bilateral efforts have proved to be ineffective, and one-year obstruction of negotiations with Croatia has proved to be harmful. And if from a strictly legal point of view the proposed law is unendurable, it is even less acceptable from a political point of view. Why? The two-thirds majority and the other opposition parties supporting the proposal do not care about greater consensus or legitimacy of the decision, as all three opposition parties: the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party have already clearly and unequivocally stated that they oppose the arbitration agreement. This has recently been very clear to some foreign ambassadors by the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party himself. It follows from the above that the support for the law proposed by the Slovenian People's Party would mean, today and here, the rejection of the Arbitration Agreement, since it is already clear that the two-thirds majority is unattainable. The opposition must also be aware of this. Her proposal is therefore unacceptable. The dispute is constitutional and disputed politically as well. The agreement will be adopted by the Members by an absolute majority or rejected after two steps, which constitute a significantly greater guarantee in terms of the constitutionality and support, or consent, of citizens and citizens, at the discretion of the Constitutional Court and after the consultation referendum. Otherwise, members of the coalition are obliged to assume the responsibility that voters impose on us and to enable a proper resolution of the long-standing border dispute with the neighbouring country as soon as possible. The parliamentary group will not really support the bill. It will support the conclusion that that proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, an associate of the government. It is a fact that Members of the SLS Group will vote against the proposal for a decision of the home committee and thus support the proposal of the law. We are convinced that the National Assembly must adopt such an important law or agreement, which will bring a border and thus seal the fate of territorial contact with the open sea, with the same majority as all other so-called constitutional decisions, i.e. by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members, because the results of this agreement or the decision of the Arbitration Agreement will in fact constitute a complement to the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have offered an opportunity to give further thought to the adoption of this law before the ratification of a harmful agreement, which, in our opinion, as established and as negotiated around it, does not bring a fair solution to the border with Croatia. The proposal for an arbitration agreement is not in favour of Slovenia. The undisputed Slovenian territory and the sea should not be negotiated. This is simply our Slovenian. In general, and in particular in our party, we have consistently pointed out the importance of the right starting points and positions towards the neighbouring country, the right and timely response when the neighbouring country intervenes on Slovenian territory and the correct use of terminology regarding the requirements for access to the open sea. At least in the act so far under the arbitration agreement, Slovenian policy with a greater consensus and more decisively, as in the case of independence, should show what our requirements are and what our starting points are. In the case of territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which is vital for Slovenia, because it means something completely different than just contacting the open sea, there is a lot of deception and on the other hand misunderstanding the essence of the problem. From the promise of the Prime Minister to seek the consensus of all political parties, there was nothing in the end. In our view, the Government wants to mislead us with its position, because we know that after ratification of Slovenia, the agreement is binding. I quote the opinion of a reputable lawyer; once the Arbitration Agreement is ratified, Slovenia must respect it and no constitutionality assessment, for example, should it be possible to amend legislation for the implementation of the arbitral tribunal's judgment, be disregarded or have no effect on the arbitration agreement's obligations. The fact is that for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, it will be decided to change the territory of the State and its sovereignty. The agreement will therefore constitute an infringement of the basic constitutional charter and must therefore be taken by the National Assembly as well as by other decisions on sovereignty and constitutionality. Determining state territory is constitutional matter. Therefore, a regulation which would affect the fundamental constitutional charter should also be adopted by a two-thirds majority. As it is said, the Group of Members will vote on the decision of the parent working or the proposal of the decision of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice. The draft law was tabled by Member Miro Petek. With regard to this bill, the 27th Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the text to the proposed proposal for the law, Mir Petk, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Representative of the Government, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts provides for a new district of Ravna in Koroška and the new District Court of Ravna in Koroška from the point of view of a more effective trial and greater access to justice. This law updates the Slovenian organisation of the court and ensures a balanced geographical distribution and greater accessibility of the population to the court. According to the current Law on Courts, the existing District Court in Slovenj Gradec covers a very wide area and covers as many as four administrative areas, in addition to Slovenj Gradc and Ravne in Koroškem, Dravograd and Radlje in Drava. Nevertheless, in the past, the Slovenian authorities have overlooked that because of the size and distance from other courts, the Meží valleys should also be assigned to the District Court. The administrative unit of Ravna in Koroška covers territories with a size of more than 303 square kilometres and covers almost 27,000 inhabitants. In comparison, let me refer to the administrative area of Slovenj Gradec, which is 286 square kilometres and has 21 800 inhabitants. The administrative unit Ravne is located on the surface at 31st place in Slovenia and by the number of inhabitants is 21st place. It covers four congregations and 44 settlements. Slovenj Gradec is also the only judicial district in the country, which has only one district and one district court, is in Slovenj Gradec, and this district court covers the entire region, which is geographically very diversified. Many places along the state border are in express traffic isolation and access to this only district court is quite remote for many people. Until recently, the judiciary was fully centralized in Slovenj Gradec, where there were also the only two notaries, now thank God notary cities also in Radljah ob Drava and Ravnah in Koroška. From today's debate, I expect the basic findings of the government and the ruling coalition that a new court district or district court in the Ravnas would be so expensive a government administration. That's not true in this case. With the establishment of the District Court in Ravna, a part of the judges of the Grand District Court in Slovenj Gradc would now move to Ravne, Koroškem. After all, there are also many judges who now belong in Slovenj Gradc, home from Raven or Mežiški valley. The new employment of judges would not be necessary, nor would new premises, since in the centre of Raven in Koroška the state premises of the former Agency for Payments in the size of 816 square metres have been empty since 2003. During that time, judges in Slovenj Gradc were in great spatial distress, and the state was building new premises in the court palace there. This law makes Slovenia more geographically divided as far as the courts are concerned and makes it possible for the inhabitants to have more equal access to the seat of the court. Let me stress that the District Court remains in Slovenj Gradc and the District Court in Slovenj Gradc joins the new District Court in Ravna, which is in the largest administrative unit in Koroška. This also follows in the Slovenian space declared but never fully established by decentralisation, because decentralisation takes place not only at the level of Ljubljana and other areas in Slovenia, but also within individual regions. It is not possible to agree that all institutions would be concentrated in a single centre. Savings are therefore not only from the point of view of the country and the state budget, we must also put ourselves in the shoes of citizens. Bringing notary service and judicial authority closer to people means that we will also appreciate these services. Less costs by transport, less lost time on the way, faster judicial proceedings and consequently smaller judicial backlogs. This is how we make life easier for people, and that is why we are here - to work for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome. The proposal for a law to be set up by the new District Court in Ravna, Koroška follows the objectives presented by the Applicant. These objectives should be the cost-effectiveness and effective trial, the principle of ensuring the legal security of the parties and the cost-effectiveness and speed of judicial proceedings. The Government does not support this proposal because it assesses that these objectives will not be achieved by the proposed law. The proposal proposing the establishment of a new District Court constitutes a further fragmentation of the network of District Courts, while at the same time implying a staffing and organisational deterioration of the existing District Court in Slovenia. This court, in its current state and composition and scope, successfully manages the case and reduces the judicial backlog and is one of the most effective district courts in the Republic of Slovenia. The establishment of a new court would not be economically justified, since the proposed 30% relocation of staff from the present District Court in Slovenia to the new District Court would not be possible. The premises in which this new court is to move are provided for in the 2010 budget for the administrative centre under the headings of the Ministry of Public Administration. It is not too much to add, however, that the spatial conditions of the present District Court in Slovenj Gradec are both appropriate to the extent and to their nature and functionality. The proposed solution proposing the introduction of a new or the establishment of a new District Court is also contrary to the analysis of the judicial system carried out in close interinstitutional cooperation under the "twinning project". A thorough analysis of the existing judicial and judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia was carried out in the 2000 Chamber, which has the title of the modernisation of the judicial system of the Republic of Slovenia, and the conclusions of this analysis show that in the past there have been small regional courts. So the District Courts, which would have to be abolished after the current state of affairs. This analysis notes that smaller judicial units are problematic both because of the issue of substitution in the event of a drop-out of judges and in the case of heavy-duty operations, in particular, complex procedures, extensive procedures and atypical accumulation of such procedures are involved here. Such small courts also prevent the specialisation of judges which is desirable. Economic reasons are also used to avoid small courts. In fact, rationalisation in the field of equipment and maintenance and buildings is possible only within larger organisational units. The 2008 report of the European Commission on the effectiveness of justice, which operates within the Council of Europe, also shows a general trend in the decline of small courts in Europe. Slovenia is currently with the number of general courts in the European Summit itself, and according to the number of courts per 100,000 inhabitants, as well as the geographical dispersion of these courts, it is in the upper half of the European countries. With regard to the proposal for the establishment of a new District Court, the opinion of the Regional Court in Slovenj Gradec was also obtained in the procedure for the formation of the Government's position, which also opposes the establishment of a new court and the actual fragmentation of the existing District Court. The District Court is of the opinion that this decision would be irrational and would result in the professional weakening of the District Court in Slovenia Gradec, and would also prevent a specialisation with negative consequences, not seeing economic eligibility in this proposal and see the danger of reducing the performance of the existing District Court. This opinion was also joined by the Supreme Court of Celje and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts would, in the view of the Liberal Democrats' Club, result in unnecessary fragmentation of the network of District Courts, at the same time weakening the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, which in our opinion also reduces judicial backlogs. Although the applicant foresees a 30% transfer of employees from the District Court to Slovenj Gradec, the new District Court, based in Ravna, Koroška, would mean additional employment and new budgetary costs, contrary to the views recently presented by the top opposition members at a recent extraordinary meeting aimed at the so-called third package of anti-crisis measures. Because we believe that the network of District Courts in Slovenia is appropriate because the adoption of the proposed law would mean new budgetary costs at a time when there is a general political consensus that the expenditure side of the budget needs to be reduced and we believe that there is no reason to open a new District Court in Ravna, Koroška, in the Liberal Democrats' Club of the proposed law we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Miro Petek, proposed by his fellow Member, wants the Novela of the Law on Courts to establish a new jurisdiction in the Ravna region of Koroška, thereby establishing a new district court in Ravna. It states in its explanatory memorandum that it follows the principle of economics and the principle of ensuring the legal security of the parties in this area. It also considers that the newly established District Court would facilitate access to the Court of Justice to the parties, thus also ensuring greater effectiveness of the constitutional right to judicial protection. The establishment also warrants that there are adequate empty spaces on the Ravna. The government, as we have just heard, opposes the proposed solutions by arguing that the establishment of a new District Court is not economically justified because the establishment of a court would mean new employment, which is not possible for the proposed 30% relocation of staff from the District Court to Slovenia Gradec without additional employment. The specialisation of judges in legal areas would be prevented, as would the quality of the trial and the legal security of citizens and so on. Why would we crush a network of district courts in an area where the District Court in Slovenj Gradc with 15 employed judges is considered to be one of the more successful courts with a minimum number of judicial backlogs that manages the current caseload and ensures an effective resolution of cases within reasonable time? The proposed changes are not favoured either in the Supreme Court or in the Council of Justice. The solution is also contrary to the analysis of the Slovenian judicial system, which was developed in the framework of a test interinstitutional cooperation project. This proposal is also opposed by the President of the District Court in Slovenia Gradec, who in a public response indicated that the establishment of a new court would have negative consequences for the employment of the District Court in Slovenia Gradec. For with the establishment of a smaller court, perhaps with five judges, the appropriate specialisation of judges cannot be ensured and this later reflects the expertise of the judicial work and is inappropriate in terms of the legal security of citizens. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law is not suitable for further consideration, even because the proposed solution is contrary to the Government's objectives adopted by the new Law on Courts in November 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. All present. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. Before us is the first to consider the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts, which was brought before the legislative procedure by Member Miro Petek. A proposal for a new Law on Courts proposes the establishment of a new District Court in Ravna, Koroška. The proposed solution intervenes in the field of organised justice, addressing the following areas: areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms, ensuring legal certainty, equality from law, equal protection of rights and the right to justice. The establishment of a new District Court is intended to facilitate access to the Court of Justice to the parties. This would ensure greater effectiveness of the constitutional right to judicial protection, an important element of which is, in accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, also access to court. At the same time, the fear of the parties in the proceedings will be reduced and, consequently, the costs of the whole procedure will be reduced. It is a matter of supplementing the law which interferes with the reorganisation of district courts, updating it and taking into account the size of the territory in the administrative area and the number of inhabitants in it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome all the solutions that take account of the equitable geographical and population distribution of the area of the jurisdiction, the accessibility of the population to the seat of the court. In view of the organisation of the District Courts in Slovenia, we can see that individual District Courts are twice or three times smaller than the District Court of Slovenj Gradec and are covered by a smaller judicial district, as covered by the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, which now covers the whole of Koroška. In the Group of Members, we believe that the proposal by the proposer is justified, especially under the assumption made by the proposer that spatial capacity is provided in the Raven area in Koroška. In Ravna, Koroškem, there are empty spaces owned by the state, located at the address of Prežihova 7. With regard to the proposed solution setting out the new court district of Ravna in Koroška and proposing the establishment, we believe that there will be no need for new employment in the field of staff, but merely for the redeployment of already employed judges and professional and administrative and technical staff. We believe that the organisation of the judiciary in the area of personal and real governance is too harsh and that it can react quickly and flexibly in changing situations. We also cite the opinion from "twinning" in the field of justice, where it has been found that the most effective mid-sized courts are the most effective, while larger units respond too inflexibly and late due to their size. We also point to the political dimension of the establishment of such a district court, because it is simply unusual and humiliating to Koroščev that the most indigenous Koroška does not have its own District Court has international implications. In fact, opposition to the establishment of a district court by the Government also means opposition to the political emancipation of the Slovenian part of Koroška and harms the fighting of the Slovenian minority in Austria in the fight for the enforcement of minority rights and decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court. Such behaviour of the Government is the continuity of relations with Koroška, the post-war Yugoslav authorities, and we must be aware of why such a situation has taken place. After the war, Yugoslav authorities in Koroška evicted the 5km belt, came as a Gestapo, were able to fold a suitcase in half an hour and were taken by cattle car to Kočevsko and there were seven years old, some farmers killed on the face of the city. The then authorities were afraid that, upon returning from the concentration camp in Kočevska, people would start filing lawsuits and all that and that this would be dealt with in Koroška. And we had to move away from Koroška. That's why it's criminal. I don't know, you probably watched a documentary on TV about you at the border reporting how brutally the five-mile belt was evicted. This also gave Austria free hands at the time to ignore the minority rights of Slovenian Korosci because the central contact of the Slovenian people in Koroskem was interrupted by this brutal action. And because of all this, it is necessary to establish this District Court in Ravna, Koroška, in order to make an important symbolic contribution to the fight against the Slovenian minority in Koroška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law among the main reasons for amendments and additions states that it is necessary to supplement the Law on Courts by establishing the new district of Ravna in Koroška. As the main reason for the establishment, it refers mainly to the legal security of the parties and to the equal protection of rights in relation to the right to judicial protection. The establishment of a new district of justice and the establishment of a new district court should take into account the equitable geographical and population distribution of both areas and the accessibility of the population to the seat of both courts. At the same time as the reason for the establishment of the new District Court, the Ombudsman cites the decommissioning of the District Court in Slovenj Gradc, which is now also responsible for matters from the Raven area of Koroška. We do not really agree with the proposal in the Group. We believe that it represents a fragmentation of the network of district courts, as well as personnel and organisational, and in particular it is a professional failure of the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. This District Court is one of the more successful courts with a minimum number of judicial backlogs. Let me also recall that, when the budget is adopted, the SDS Group has drawn most of the funds from the amendments they have tabled from the funds for the functioning of the courts, and therefore, suddenly, the concerns of the Member of the same delegation for an effective and accessible judiciary are assessed as being locally pre-chosen. As I have mentioned, we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and friends. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the draft law tabled by Member Miro Petek in the legislative and legal procedure with a view to establishing a new jurisdiction and establishing a new district court based in Ravna, Koroška. According to the law in force, the district covered by the court in Slovenj Gradc is very large and the establishment of a new court would bring judicial protection closer to the inhabitants of the upper Mežiški valley and achieve greater efficiency of the courts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the arguments that the proposed change would, inter alia, reduce the spatial distress at the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, where construction will not be necessary. In contrast to the Government, we believe that the proposed reorganisation of the two District Courts would follow the principle of economy and the speed of the proceedings, as well as the principle of ensuring the legal security of the parties. The proposed law seems worthy of our support, for it is intended for the good of people who, at the expense of the poor situation in the judiciary, no longer trust. Judicial backlogs and other problems in the judiciary undermine even confidence in the existence of the rule of law, which we find truly worrying. If the proposed law helps to improve the situation in some context at least a little bit, if a court thus gets at least a little bit closer to people and their specific problems, if people at the expense of the proposed law have at least a little more confidence in the judiciary and suffer some injustice, we have done much already. This is how small steps are taken, which, in our view, are worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry. Colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We see that this amendment of the law is submitted by colleague Miro Petek, and in this proposal it sets out some arguments that would lead to the establishment of a new district court at Ravna. Among these arguments, it stresses in particular that the border of justice is large and that it prevents certain substantive enforcement and the provision of all judicial rights for citizens and citizens living in the part of the Mežiški valley. In particular, the proposal emphasises that this would achieve greater efficiency in this area. It also states that greater cost-effectiveness of the judicial system and the work of the district court in Ravna would be achieved. In addition, there are indications of legal certainty and judicial protection of parties who, due to the approximation of this District Court at Ravna, would somehow be made more accessible to all parties. I can say that the DeSUS Group considers that these arguments are such that they simply do not withstand a sober and professional judgement. When we go after all these arguments, we can also find, for each of these, counter-arguments that say that the establishment and establishment of a district court on the Plains is pointless and unnecessary. If we go to the first argument, which emphasizes that the district of justice is large and that it prevents the judicial protection of all living in this work, then we can say that from Slovenj Gradac to Raven is about 13 kilometers away, that we do not need the court every day, that we need it occasionally, and that even those 13 kilometers should probably not represent a large and excessive barrier for all living in this work. That the effectiveness of the trial, or that the effectiveness of the trial, in this case, if the District Court at the Ravna was reached was greater, then we can say, as we have heard many times in this Chamber today, that the District Court in Slovenj Gradc is one of the most successful courts in Slovenia. That all judicial backlogs are within reasonable limits and that efficiency is also good because now 15 judges in the Regional Court of Slovenj Gradec are in possession of the District Court, which can be divided into specialized content and therefore this efficiency and quality is absolutely greater. This is not about further protection of judicial rights, because it is given by the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. That the argument of the economics of the court and the functioning of the district court has been reached in such a way that we will open another court in Ravni, then this is quite clear and can be argued that this is only an additional cost which would become a state or the Ministry of Justice, which should be invested in making this district court work in Ravni. We often talk about the possibility that district courts may be too much, even too much in our country, and that any expansion and addition of an additional number of district courts is really pointless. The economy I was talking about is the specialisation of judges, which is possible in larger district courts, and not least the efficiency that I have already talked about. If the applicant really had a sincere vision of bringing judicial protection closer or of achieving judicial protection and the effectiveness of the people in Koroška, it would probably make sense that, in addition to this proposal, we are considering today the proposal to set up a district court in Radlja. Because Koroška is connected, as has been said, with three administrative units, and Radje is also the part that can be even further away from the centre, i.e. from Slovenj Gradc, and it would make sense to mention this in this case. However, when we heard all the arguments - all these arguments speak against the establishment of an even smaller district court, because this is pointless and unacceptable. And maybe a word about Koroška. Slovenj Gradec is also Koroška, also the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec - the only municipality in Koroškem belongs to the part of Koroška. And since 1267, when the city of Slovenj Gradec has received city rights, it has also obtained the rights of the judiciary, that is, the judicial authority. And ever since 1267, this judicial authority has never moved from the city of Slovenj Gradec. So it is also an authentic right that the court is here and it has always been, and it will always be, without now objecting to the establishment of the District Court at the Ravna, but all these arguments speak contrary to what the proposer proposes. In short, the proposed solutions in the DeSUS Group will not be supported, as this is our opinion based on the opinion of the Supreme Court based on the opinion of the Regional Court of Slovenj Gradec, which is also based on the decision of the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so it seems to us that this proposal, which could be considered, is a proposal which the Ministry of Justice will probably also take under a slightly larger scale and may analyse on this proposal the relevance and rationality of the current judicial network in Slovenia. This proposal, as I said, will not be supported by the DeSUS Group at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. As your candidate, please welcome Mr. Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. When I, as a motioner, tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts establishing this new court district, the new court in Ravna, Koroška, many people across Slovenia and foreign colleagues here in the National Assembly asked me whether it was true that Ravna did not have a court, how it was possible, what had happened in the past. 44 In Slovenia, district courts are very small, much smaller, than the District Court in Ravna. The District Court in Slovenj Gradec has today, here we have information, 15 judges, according to my Internet data, 16 of these judges, employees in this court are 51. Then we have a district court of 8 judges in Krk, and an additional 28 workers are employed. For example, a court in Brežice employs 7 judges plus an additional 31 employees. It is said that Krško and Brežice have 15 judges together as many as Slovenj Gradec and 57 employees. We can add to this, for example, the District Court in Sevnica. How many judges are there? 4, employed 14. Let's move on. There are 3 judges and 13 employees on this list in Lithuania. We have the District Court in Trebnje, four judges, 19 employees. And you could also list, Črnomelj 6 judges, 20 employees, Tolmin 3 judges, 17 employees. And now to talk about the fact that the District Courts in Slovenia are crushed after we have 44 so that the District Court in Ravna is very small after we have three judges, it is irrelevant. However, we may wonder whether this network of district courts is appropriate; we have heard here today that this network is appropriate. If this network is appropriate, let us add another district court, a district court in Ravna, and thus bring judicial protection closer to the people in the upper part of Koroška or the Mežíska Valley. From Slovenj Gradac to Raven is true 13 km, depending on which way you go, you can go even longer, 20 km. But from Koprivna, Topple and Podpuce it is up to Slovenj Gradac 50, 60 km. So that there are some real reasons why we should not adopt this law is not here. But we can talk about how certain courts I mentioned could be merged or abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich. [[He's not here.]] Jursha. [[It's not.]] Mr. Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much again. We have a proposal on the table for the establishment of a district court in Koroška. It has been evident from the interpretation of colleague Petka that, after the current organisation and network, he absolutely deserves this place and that this court would be among the middle in Slovenia. The network of courts is not the cause of opposition by the coalition. If the coalition agrees in any way, because it says that it is the equality of people, that it is their political interest, then it must agree with this law. It is simply not possible to find reasons and justifications that one citizen of Slovenia should travel to court 60 km and the other significantly less. Because this has to do with the costs. I also understand Mayor Slovenj Gradc's support for the preservation of everything in the area of Slovenj Gradac. Every mayor wants to be a big rooster in court, and he doesn't like to be given jurisdiction. But I can't fully agree here for some reason. We know that once Koroška was united, until Yugoslavia was established, and that the whole was a cradle of Slovenia and, of course, it covered itself from the northern part as well. With the formation of Yugoslavia and the separation of Slovenia, that it came under another country and even the Slovenian minority was so disintegrated, political needs became different. And today it is also important and politically necessary that Slovenia also has all the guaranteed attributes that other parts of Slovenia have. And before that, I mentioned the political motive why Koroshka did not receive the court when this network was being established. After World War II, Croats along the border, within a five - mile [5 km] radius, were either caught or endured one of the worst crimes of the time by the Udba and the party authorities. Evictions by Gestapo methods, when they arrived in the middle of the night, predators, KNOJ, etc., then the KNOJ, and they evicted people with a suitcase. They had to leave the farms, leave everything behind, and move them to a closed cabin. About this is a very plastic documentary on you at the border of Television Slovenia. Seven, ten years later, they started coming back, and some of them were at the threshold because they resisted, they shot. And with five kilometres of border emptying, they then cut off territorial contact with the Slovenian minority, who was on the other side so that they wouldn't get any bad impressions about how democracy is developing on the other side. And it was logical, of course, that these people, even though they have endured unprecedented terror, cleansing, killing to file court motions when the situation stops and democratizes. And, of course, these potential judicial difficulties must have moved as far as possible into the interior of the country, because there the local people knew this and, of course, would have aroused some public pressure on the functioning of the courts. And it is distasteful, by the government, to support such a Yugoslav policy. The Justice Ministry is the first one to give an epilogue to this issue of post-war evictions, to apologize to them and to do something. Now we see that because of this, the Koros have suffered lasting consequences, that they are not granted a right which is recognised elsewhere in Slovenia - easy access to court, judicial protection, close judicial protection and, as I have heard from the coalition, approximate judicial protection is simplified access to the court, costs, additional costs as stated. The basic human rights of the population can be an additional cost. You have read in the Constitution the principle of equality that our Constitution guarantees. On this basis, can we say that the principle of equality and equal rights is respected? We can't. I hate to hear that the Koros are a cost to people, but at the same time at least in principle we are fighting that the Slovenian minority on the other side of the border will receive the rights granted to them by the Constitutional Court's decision. How do you fight for rights on the other hand for the Slovenian minority based on such views? Are you sending the same message as after the war by evicting the border belt by killing people on the other side? We don't care what's done on the other side of the border. Human contact will be terminated, they said then, no one in Yugoslavia or Slovenia will know what is going on in Slovenia. And that was the political reason. Today, sending wrong political views is unacceptable. The Justice Ministry, however, is the first one to act in favour of good access to equal rights of citizens. I must warn you that I read in the Journal today that the President of the Government obviously does not support the Minister's recent actions regarding the prosecution and that he is concerned that he has ensured that the independence of the prosecution must be maintained, which is what Minister Zalar is trying to take away from his actions. In some ways, I am glad that someone hoped that all of this could not be done because of some short - term political goals. That the Constitution, the principle of equality of justice, is the fundamental principles on which our system must be based, is our democracy. And the legislative proposal put forward by colleague Friday is just one proposal to correct past mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Basically, everything was said. I would very much refrain from the debates that have a political point in this. I think that there is no room for us to talk from a political point of view, either the past or the present, even though we have heard today in this Chamber that the amendment of this law and the introduction of this law are also part of the populism, part of the preparations for this local election. Here I come solely from the fact that the Ministry of Justice is the one that sets the pace that directs the justice network in Slovenia and the absolute competent one that will also decide in this case. In this case, it has been made clear what further introduction of the number of District Courts means. This is about perfect trust, because I think it's leading to all this being professional. And you probably also have a strategy designed to spread this justice network or even reduce it in our country. And maybe I should just touch the work that's going on economics. Then let's say that -- look, I'm not going to be a critic. It was also mentioned that every mayor wanted to be somewhere at the top of the rooster. I don't have those ambitions. However, let me also say from this point of view that there may be a bitter taste of the fact that in Slovenia Castle stands the court palace which you have built up years ago, which, as we have heard, has a perfect system of work for all judges and judges, that it is very successful in its work, that is, in its content, that it may be a little less successful after its appearance, because in one part the facade is already very much out of the way. And look, if the Ministry of Justice doesn't have, probably not, enough money to restore these eminent buildings and palaces in the city of peace Slovenj Grad to us and also to you, then it's hard to imagine that it will cover these costs, in some units that we will reopen. And not just that, it's a bunch of other logistical things that belong to the work of one of these new District Courts, so I'm absolutely distancing myself here and focusing on the political segment of the debate and supporting everything that's been said by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor - I'm sorry, Mr. Petan, or [[...]] Mr. Miro Friday, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Well, with the existing network of District Courts, it is, of course, imperative and wise that the Levels get this place. Some areas in Koroška have recently been decentralised, and the country itself has contributed. See, when the Liberal Democracy was in power, the tax office in Koroška was abolished and the Cororian entrepreneurs had to drive to Maribor for more difficult things. The former Government, the Government of Janez Janša, has recognized this error and now we have the Tax Office in Dravograd, but Koroša we have our tax authority closer to citizens and taxpayers. Last year, a notariat in Ravna was abolished, and it was a pity that there was no Minister Zalar here, that he could say more about this, which also points to the Minister's attitude towards this law. We barely received a notariat, a notary town in Ravna and Radljah ob Drava, with a change of power there was an end. The minister realized it was a mistake and this notariat returned to Ravne. So, life is dynamic and I don't know why we wouldn't add 45 to these 44 districts or reduce all 15 district courts in Slovenia and then the case would be resolved. This way I get the feeling that the Mežíska Valley is the Koroška, the only part of Koroška, the only part in Slovenia that cannot have its own judicial authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that I personally want jobs and, of course, the development of certain regions and landscapes to look elsewhere than in administrative, administrative matters alone, because it is those who are taking the lead today that are the most zealous at that time, of course, in the state, public administration costs must be reduced, rationalised and so important. That's what they say, apparently. Mr. Jerovšek, would you like a word? Procedural proposal? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'll keep going. Please, Mr President, I am confident that you will provide the conditions for a good debate. Of course, each municipality, in particular the former administrative units, which indicate that Slovenia may have been organised more rationally in the past, want such state-owned institutions, but the moment and time are not right. I am pleased that the Ministry, including the Minister, is taking major steps in the area of judicial and judicial reform, in particular in order to ensure that people are dealt with more quickly, more effectively, in accordance with the legislation and that justice will, of course, be achieved in an effective, swift manner. It is not the most important thing, or each one of us gets the right only in his own place, sometimes anyone who wants to be faster and sooner on the turn would like to take the will a few miles away, just so that the matter can finally be resolved as it should be. And that must be a reflection in this country. During this short period of one year, the Ministry of Justice has proposed and brought through a number of legislative measures that improve the work of the courts and, above all, the amount of money allocated to the work of the justice system has remained the same as reallocation, the search for internal reserves and rationalisation. There's a lot of things going on that the backlogs are going down. I think that's a good thing right now. However, the time will certainly come when we have more resources, better material conditions and will be for former administrative units, one of the important points is also the Ravne, and the administrative authorities in the area of the financing of judges for infringements of courts and so on. At this point, I think that those who have the opportunity to search for jobs will see economic results more effectively immediately, where there will be more added value, but not only in areas that bring more administrations and increase public administration costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	Look, I think it makes sense that Mr Saiovic, Mayor of Tržič, is committed to having Koros as long as possible to a court of justice, constitutional courts. Our Group of Members was in the Market yesterday. When we saw Pekko’s fall for the strange purposes that the congregation had set out for, and that this congregation had recently been extremely in debt, it seems to me that he too would take the initiative to keep the court as far away from the Market as possible in the future so that it would not be heard and perhaps even judge what was going on. As a result, political interests are always at the back of such matters as the departure of the court from Raven. I've mentioned some political interests. I'm surprised now to see the absent mayor of Zanoskar being shielded from political backgrounds. From what was done, as I was saying, at the border of the people of that time on the 5km belt after being evicted, there is no way for anyone here to fence. These are injustices that have been in the sky and should not be hidden for 40 years, but should be corrected by justice as much as can be done, but not hindered by it. So one more time to this replica. All those who perform like Mr. Saiovic here are political interests if someone advocates the departure of the court as long as possible. Because of the fact that specific cases are unpleasant, it wants to be forgotten as much as possible and that there will be as much political pressure on the court in question as possible, which is outside the indigenous district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	This was not a replica, it was Mr Jerovšek's debate. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Saiovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much. But I'd like to report a replica because you've just assessed that this is a debate, not a replica, and I'd like to answer the statements that I was personally named in. I think it's the right thing to do, but I'm going to use a slightly different tone than my interlocutor, and I'm sure it's okay that you give me your word to answer these allegations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Mr. Saiovic, I'll give you an exceptional replica on the replica. This debate Mr Jerovšek had not been planned was forced. Please, I'm exceptionally putting a replica on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm happy for your kindness. I was glad to see you yesterday in Tržič. Unfortunately, you did not feel the need to meet with the mayor to present to you the largest European cohesion project between the 18 municipalities of Gorenje, which is worth 25 million, is making good progress. It'll be over this year. The market does not have a court, but your party's eminent representatives in the Kranj courts have already been convicted several times, and they have also been found to be legal. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And something else. [[...]] However, unfortunately, at the age of 50, I have not yet been legally convicted, although it is only now that I have become a real politician, because in pre-election time I have received several complaints and I thank you very much for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	But now we've come a long way from the topic on the agenda. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Slovenia, the practice is that district courts are where administrative units are located, except where small administrative units are located, that is not possible. It's true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Mr. Petan. It's a time-consuming mistake. And please turn it off for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. So in Slovenia there is a practice or custom or standard that district courts are where there are also administrative units except in cases where administrative units with a small number of inhabitants. Then maybe there's two of them joined together. I must admit, I was a little surprised when colleague Friday said a few months ago that there was no district court in Ravna, Koroška. The first thing I did, I asked him how many people you had there in the valley of Meziska. He said, I think, 27 grand. In my knowledge, it would be an exception to these large cities, where the District Courts are also one court, if there were at the Ravna, which would not have had the least population, but would cover the very appropriate number of inhabitants. For example, the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, which now covers Ravne in Koroškem, also covers Dravograd, Radlje and Slovenj Gradec, which is more than 80,000 inhabitants, but I think the court takes large cities again, but it is small. I'm sure that's the size of a county court. As far as I know, in Slovenj Gradec, on the same surface, for the same number of inhabitants, both district and county courts. This is what I think is no longer the case in Slovenia. I think this seemed unusual especially in our time when we were talking about greater access to courts and judicial protection at some acceptable time. Of course, some courts are not necessary to bring judicial protection in a more real time, but it is not normal for Koroška to have only one court for 75,000 inhabitants at the district level. The fact is that what one of the predecessors has said is not a negligible fact that this is a border area and that we cannot care about what is going on on on the other side of this border line, where the Slovenian minority lives and the Slovenian minority is fighting for rights, for institutions in the Slovenian language, in the minority language, while in our home country this area, which is also defined as Koroška, we can say that it does not have all those institutions, that the network is not as diversified as possible in other areas of Slovenia. I do not think that this is a good message when our relatives on the other side of the border in Austria also require certain rights and institutions that the minority should have. I therefore support this proposal of this law and these efforts to ensure that the Meziska Valley also has its own district court. For I believe that with 27,000 inhabitants it would be nothing unusual, nothing special. And no privileges would be for this area if they had their own district court there. In the same breath, however, I would also like to say that this is not meant to be a criticism of the work of the District Court in Slovenia, far from this. I think I'm the least invited to judge how the District Court works in Slovenj Gradec. This is said by the inhabitants belonging to this area covered by the District Court. That's what they should say. Overall, in view of the network in Slovenia, I believe that this proposal is fully justified. I support him, and of course I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. You have as your proposer, Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We've heard here today since they had a court in Slovenj Gradec. True, historical information is accurate, but it should be added that the Meziska Valley was tried under the jurisdiction of Veliovac during the Austro-Hungarian period, then after II. World War II, and there was a court in Prevalje, and only for the last few ten years is the judicial authority for this part of Koroška in Slovenj Gradc. We also know from history why the Mežíska Valley was exterminated from plebiscite territory in 1920, this year we are celebrating the 90th year of this plebiscite. Because this is where the very conscious Slovenians lived. And then the greats knew well that plebiscite could bend in favor of the then Yugoslavia. So Koroška or Mežíska Valley with Jezerski was removed from this plebiscite area. The highest city in Koroška today is also flat. Koroška has different boundaries than he used to have. Today, geography and political geography have changed, thank God. On the other hand, I understand why the Levels of the past have not received this lowest level of judicial authority. Levels have in the past been predestined to produce to work in the ironworks, to work in the mine. Slovenj Gradec was destined to become a cultural center to become a banking centre, a media centre. True, today it is also the center of the criminal underworld in Koroška, just another story. But it's not our fault or the mayor of Slovenj Gradac or me. With regard to empty spaces in Ravna in Koroška, more than 800 square metres of state space have been empty since 2003. If we get rents of at least €5 per square meter per month for these areas, then at annual level the country would be richer at the expense of 49,000 euros, or in these years more than €300,000, so much savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. President. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will make my contribution on the basis of one letter that I received today, which relates specifically to the area that we are talking about today. In fact, I support the establishment of this first-degree court, which in any case is necessary there, not for any political reasons or anything else, but simply because of the numbers given by Ambassador Petek. Despite my support, I'm going to read a few passages from a letter from a group of judges that I got right on my desk today. In fact, these judges welcome the recent amendments to the Law on Courts and, in this context, they ask me to ask the representatives of the Ministry for some things, and I will therefore take the time available to us in the Group of Members to do so to call on the Secretary of State to discuss the subject. In fact, they justify the case so in this group of judges that the courts, the first-degree courts, in particular those of the three judges, speak in the Slovenian space, even such ones, are unnecessary. It is also the case that the Ministry is actually considering the abolition of such courts, in particular small ones which are not in the seat of the district courts, because it considers that the state would, of course, save a great deal in this way. And these judges, the presidents of such courts, according to the writers of this letter, have nothing to do, but they go "boss" and have their own pyar and so on, so they find it useful to abolish them. Today, we are talking about establishing it in the Ravna in Koroška, not such a court with five or three judges, but more. And so it is not logical that the ministry on the one hand says "No" to me in Koroška, but on the other hand it says, "Yes, to the courts having three judges." So it would be logical that if you were to take some constant policy, saying to your fellow Member Friday "No - Levels in Koroška will not get this court" to do more in those courts that have fewer judges than the Levels in Koroška would have. And then stop them there. In this letter there is a great deal of written and based on this subject, and they say that in courts with three to five judges there is really nothing to do. In particular, the judges have nothing to do - the presidents of these courts and, in fact, the judges are only paying these judges. So if you intend to make order in this area, then be honest with all the citizens in this country. Not that we say to Koroshka: "No! You're not getting this."and, on the other hand, you hold in your life a court which has a smaller number of judges than under the same criteria may have a first-rate court at the Ravna in Koroška. So, I also expect that in the debate, I think you still have enough time to say something on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav, he's not here. Mr. Urh, he's not here. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. From some of the data or some of the words said so far, the Secretary of State may only ask this question - he says that the establishment of a new court at the Ravna would not be economically justified and would require new employment because the proposed 30% relocation of persons from the current District Court to the new District Court would not be possible. If this moment the court in Slovenj Gradec also covers this area, and then this area would be exempted, I do not understand why individuals could not be transferred, since other reorganisations or changes have taken place in this way. By asking you to answer me in this regard. We know that most people, at least in the judicial system, have a lot of comments about the fact that work is going on too long, that things are not going smoothly. For years we have been talking about judicial backlogs, and it would probably be worthwhile to think about some real units that should not be too small or too large, that work there is really effective and is done as it should be, and as finally citizens and citizens who pay or pay for it, we are also looking forward to it. The vision of the former government was to bring all these services closer to people, because we already know that it does not have exactly public administration and administration of any good repute; most people complain that things do not happen, that officials are complicated and similar, so we wanted to bring certain things closer to people and that we organized things differently in this way. And if I say only a case that, in fact, may not even have anything to do with it, but we do know that we have moved from the great congregations to small congregations and that at one time many projects have taken place very quickly, which have somehow failed and failed before, they do not set the right priorities and so on. My friend Friday, I think he's done a very good job in the proposal, and in what way the human resources and the spatial things could be resolved, which means that it wouldn't cost much more, or some smart regulation would probably not even mean any new and additional costs. I advocate that smaller units can also be better, more efficient, they respond faster, and they are closer to people, even under better supervision. We have the biggest problem that things don't work because of control and then we say, "Yeah, there was no control." If the thing is in place, if people walk by every day, they know people who work there, control is completely different, everyone there can knock on your sleeve and people can talk to each other. But if they have to go somewhere 50, 60 kilometers away, it's probably different. As we say, we have cases where we are with smaller units that must be just right, not too small, but just right, and if your statistics and analyses say that smaller district courts are also successful and are doing well, I don't know why such resistance to this proposal is. I'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Kolarich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. When I presented the position of the Social Democrats, I said that we would not support the law or the novelty of the law. Personally, I think so, and I come mainly from the data available, from the analysis of the work of the judicial system in Slovenia. The analysis done in Europe shows that the trend is to reduce the number of courts and not increase, particularly in the European Union. The increase in the number of courts in particular, I would say, could not possibly be an example, Azerbaijan, Georgia, even Croatia, while the number of courts in countries such as Denmark, Germany and so on is decreasing. I think that in Slovenia we have to follow this trend and not crush these courts further into the smallest units, which then causes problems in the functioning of such smaller courts, from the fact that the problems of substitution during different diseases, maternity, and so on, problems of specialisation of judges, problems of economy, rationality and so on. Besides, I have to say, it's a little foreign for me to fight for the courts. I always feel bad if I have to go to court. I think we should do more to get as little justice in the courts as possible, not to set up as many of these courts as possible. After all, we are already following the results of various analyses by Slovenia at the top of both the cases in the courts and the number of courts per hundred thousand inhabitants. I think that, above all, rationalisations will need to be considered in this area, and then such amendments will no longer have to be tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Scrooge in the name of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the issues and concerns expressed by some Members, I should say that the Ministry of Justice certainly does not seek to crush the existing network of courts. There are several reasons for this. I've already said some of them in the opening presentation. Above all, it is a matter of assessing that the number of courts already according to statistical indicators in Slovenia is so high and so large that further fragmentation would mean too much economic and organisational burden for the country, and in particular because of this, the expertise of the judiciary has suffered because the smaller court represents a heavier specialisation of judges and also under more demanding working conditions. When faced with more difficult cases or with accumulation of larger cases, the organisation of work is more difficult in such cases. The question, which, I must say, is quite provocative, is how does the abolition of the small courts, which you judge or the writers of the letter you showed, assess that they are somehow unnecessary or unnecessary. The abolition of courts is a completely different issue than the establishment of new courts. Given that the proposal for a new court law is on the agenda today, I would not like to confuse this topic with the abolition of the courts. The abolition of any court is a subject that needs to be carefully considered. The abolition of the court is not only an organisational problem and a risk of possible judicial backlogs, but it fully interferes with the issues that we are talking about today, whether it is not the sense for a group of people to have easier access, but rather the risk of being prevented by what they already have. This is, of course, why the issue of the abolition of the courts is something that does not fall within the concept of today's debate. I would like to say, however, that with the organisation of smaller courts, smaller district courts, which you have already discussed, have already been occupied and the Law on Courts, a novelty which touches on the issue of these smaller courts. With this novel, we have abandoned the system of appointing district judges for the district and have moved on to the system of appointing district judges for the district. In fact, we have allowed flexibility within individual districts to make it easier for the district courts to exchange judges if the need for a trial is to do so. This answers the question of the rigidity of this system. We have also sharpened the conditions for the appointment or establishment of departments in small courts and, of course, in small courts, as mentioned in the cases - three or five judges, part where it will not be possible to establish at all and there will be no payment of management allowances for the management of such departments. We have also abolished the functions of Vice-Presidents of the District Courts, thereby saving considerable resources because we estimate that the personal function of the Vice-President of the District Court is no longer necessary in the light of all the systemic changes we have introduced with this Novelo Law on Courts. But don't let me go back to what there was already talk about in this assembly. Of course, the question of the costs of establishing a new court is not so simple as to count the percentage of cases from one court to another and to place a detailed percentage of employees from one court to another. Indeed, the new court means that some, in fact, all essential services need to be established in a new way. It is necessary to establish a new set of registries, a new set of judicial staff, if I may use this ugly word, a set of judicial staff who will serve these registrations to the full, must have a new information service and support for this information service, not to mention all the other spatial and material conditions that new courts need to deal with, of course, and therefore merely a simple arithmetic, in order to shift 30% of staff to two responses, so that the new court will have a financial problem. With regard to the perception that changes must go towards preventing long-term trial and allow for trial in the most beautiful and reasonable time. Of course, I am joining this and for this very reason I have highlighted in the presentation that the current District Court in Slovenj Gradc is one of the more successful. It should be known, however, that the reorganisation of the court is in such a way that a certain fund of cases is transferred to another court, of course an operation which is linked to many risks. This is the question, the transfer of cases, this is the question of a new division of cases, this is necessarily a standstill in the trial. The experience of 1995 is very rich here. To a certain extent, it raises issues of jurisdiction; in short, the new proceedings stem from such a reorganisation. And, as I have already said, the 1995 experience was quite harsh because in 1995 the judicial backlog began. For this reason, of course, we are further concerned about separating one part of the court from the existing district court. So in this sense, too, the risk after our assessment is too much of the expected effects. However, these effects are relatively low in relation to the analyses carried out in the past. In view of the fact that smaller units, smaller units of justice are more vulnerable to questions of professionalism, more vulnerable to questions of organisation of work and, as I have already said, also to questions of economic organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. And Mr. Friday, as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. This information is likely to indicate that we have the highest number of courts. But on the other hand, we also have the biggest backlogs, and obviously this is some kind of "deficit" in the system, which we're getting too "heady" and we're not doing anything about it. The District Court in Ravna, Koroška is not about prestige or any whim, or I don't know what. You could say what has already been used here today, said, is a remedy for the injustices of the past. The point is that we bring these people closer to judicial protection so that they don't drive more than 50, 60 kilometers to the first judge. In addition, the District Court in Slovenj Gradec is also the only district courts with only one district court, for the entire region of Koroška - 74,000 inhabitants of us are in Koroška. When the reorganisation of the Slovenian judiciary took place there in the mid-1990s, the then Minister of Justice, Mr Kozinc, argued quite vehemently that it was sufficient for Koroška to have only a district court and the district court was supposed to be after the ideas of Maribor at the time. We would also have a courthouse in Maribor for Koroška. At that time there was a great outcry and blood in Koroška, Koroška protested, wrote open letters, and Koroška received both district and district courts. If it were in Maribor, there would be no less judges for this reason, only Koroški would go straight to Maribor. If we unite all the courts in Slovenia in one place in Ljubljana, there will be no less judges, only all Slovenians will drive to Ljubljana, we will have great parking problems here, so we will spend a lot of time and money. The fact is, in court, lawyers, lawyers and lawyers in Koroška are now concentrated on only one end, and in this way individual parts of Slovenia are poor. Because in the mid-1990s Koroška received this judicial authority in the first stage, which is now in Slovenia Gradc, there are many Korošci who have studied the law, many have returned and are now employed either as lawyers or as judges. If that were not the case, this intelligence would be lost in other cities in Slovenia, especially in Ljubljana and Maribor. And it is good that in Koroška we also have a highly educated cadre, that we have this intelligence, and that we leave Koros to not only sew and power tycoon accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone wishes to discuss it? Yes, he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would respond to the Secretary of State's words that you do not wish to comment on the dismissal of the courts, that this does not fall within today's concept, that this does not belong in today's debate and so on. The matter is part of this debate. Why don't you go to this debate? We're talking about small courts. The one proposed by Mr Friday is not really that small. But you argue that Ravna in Koroška cannot get this first-degree court, but you do not agree to discuss what the ministry policy will be in the future. I can promise you an extraordinary meeting of the committee, and there you will have to identify yourself on this matter. I don't know why you're hiding behind these things. But when you get an invitation to a special session on the table, you'll probably explain. I think it is only right that Slovenians and Slovenians should have a clear answer to this question, why Koros are second-rate in terms of, I mean, those at the Ravna in Koroška, to those who have such courts. I think that's a good idea. Of course, there is something, you say to the vice presidents, that you have abolished. Okay, but you've re-established the directors. So that there will certainly be no large savings in this area, even if we know the operating system, so if we know the pay system, the abolition of the vice-presidents themselves will not be any savings, as a result, then a certain number of people should also be forgiven. And I don't think that was done, and there's probably no need. That is why there is no savings, and this needs to be said very clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you. I would also like to address the subject of these smaller district courts myself. If you say that there can be a problem of expertise and the like in such courts, it can only concern me and say that we will not, then the Members would probably deserve information, which are these district courts, which are professionally questionable or poor. According to my logic or thinking, we should then prepare measures to change and improve this, and we should do something about this. You said we wouldn't take them off, but you know, when you said yourself they could be professionally problematic. That seems a little underestimating to us. If such courts and your data show that these smaller units do not do the job as they should, then I think we should come to this National Assembly, with the proposal that certain courts either unite or join larger ones, in short, to do something about it or let another five or a few years nothing happen when, as you said, we have a problem with expertise in these courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Now the Secretary of State wanted to make a call. I can't give him another word because he didn't call me when I opened the application, so he wanted to say something, but he won't be able to do it today, so I'm closing the debate. [[...]] On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the top of the agenda, this is the first defence proposal for the Act on the Supplementation of the Act on Gasilence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal for the Law to Ivan Grill for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and co-workers. Last year in Slovenia we celebrated a solemn anniversary of Slovenian firefighting, which is of exceptional importance and I think we are all proud of it, that is 140 years of the existence of Slovenian firefighting. This feature was attended by the state's top representatives, and everyone in turn has identified the unique importance of our firefighting, and this is especially true for our volunteer firefighters. All of them recognized their sacrifices, their humanity, and their sense of fellow humans. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want these words and conclusions to be made honestly. We believe that voluntary firefighters felt at least a little morally rewarded and honored in these confessions, but unfortunately that is not enough. Voluntary firefighters need more for their work. There is an ever-increasing number of educations, they need more and better equipment in case of accidents and interventions and at least little material attention to motivate the operation of volunteer firefighters. It is of particular importance that we also ensure in advance the increasing membership of our voluntary firefighting companies. And the desire is for young people to join. In Slovenia we have almost 140,000 volunteer firefighters, 60,000 of them are operational, with over 40,000 of them, at least the rating is such that they are operationally qualified. These numbers belong to the summit of the thousand inhabitants, as far as these qualified and members are concerned. We are proud of this and it is right to continue this tradition. Even in Slovenia in recent years there have been more frequent natural disasters, floods, storms, reptiles, weather conditions, forest fires and more. In all these cases, without our self-sacrificing voluntary firefighters and, of course, professional ones who risk their health and lives unselfishly, the consequences of these disasters would be much greater. This is done by our operational firefighters who are trained for such interventions. Although a volunteer firefighter is a volunteer, he is qualified to perform very difficult tasks such as firefighting, fire resolution, traffic accidents, environmental, industrial accidents and could still be listed. At the same time, it is the cheapest and most valuable operational task in firefighting. It is also true that our society, our country, especially us, honourable Members and representatives of the Government, is aware of this. It would be good if our operational volunteer firefighters, in carrying out their tasks when they are saving other lives and risking their lives and health, at least a little reward to give them a little more attention. Dear Members and Members and Representatives of the Government! It is true that we formally wrote and proposed this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but in the text we have only taken into account those expectations, those desires which our voluntary firefighters and voluntary firefighters have. Therefore, understand or we can say that the proponents are our voluntary firefighters and do not take it that we are the proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the law at the very beginning, as is customary in this mandate, even to refuse further consideration. This law provides in particular for the following amendments; this would also burden local communities, which are particularly affected at the time of this recession, and also this law, or these solutions, seek to motivate the operation of our voluntary firefighters, namely operational ones. In this law, we want to transfer to the country the provision of funds for the insurance of operational firefighters, to provide funds for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters, to ensure that voluntary firefighters are provided with additional health insurance and that the State provides additional pension insurance for each day of intervention to the voluntary operational firefighters. I propose that we adopt this bill for further consideration and, as I have already mentioned, that we understand it, that the proposal is our voluntary firefighters and that we hear what they want and deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. A respected choir! Thank you very much for this presentation of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Firearms Act. If we understand your proposal correctly, you are talking about the issue of improving the status of voluntary rescue workers, including firefighters. As regards the regulation of the status of voluntary rescue workers, in particular those operating rescue workers, it is important that we understand that there are three levels of reflection, namely, that we are talking about a more well-ordered personal status of rescue workers, that we are talking about their relationship with employers and at the third level, that we are talking about the role of local communities or those primarily in charge of regulating the field of fire safety and protection against natural and other disasters. This is about the specific and primary role of the municipalities, which within the framework of setting funds for their needs, for their operations. In the context of appropriate spending, they also receive a certain share of money at the expense of fire safety and protection against natural and other disasters. On all three levels of resolution of operational rescue issues, we discussed last year when we finally adopted the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters until 2015. In fact, at the time, we were aware that a number of things that we perceive in regulating the status of volunteer rescuers cannot be solved at once, but it takes more time, more years, that this can be resolved gradually and that the status of all operational rescuers together and all volunteers and not only select certain groups from this set of all our volunteers operating in the whole of Slovenia. We therefore assess, as the Government, that the proposal to supplement the Firearms Act, all those points, all those three levels at which it is necessary to regulate, does not resolve the status of voluntary operatives. Because it solves only one group, it solves one group in a way where, instead of solving key problems from this status, it tries to transfer financial obligations to the state, and, as we said, the State - Government, in fact, recognises this obligation in the context of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. It could therefore be concluded that, in fact, what we are saving here today is the financial status of the municipalities, not the actual resolution of the status of voluntary operatives. We believe that it is necessary, and we will do so this year, because the 2010 Government's normative programme envisages an amendment to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. This law is seen as a covert law in which all issues related to operational lifeguards, voluntary paramedics, are addressed. Therefore, under this law, we intend to consider employers who we consider already this year, because this relationship between a volunteer and a employer is considered the most controversial, one of the worst-ordered, employers we want to recognise in addition to the current salary refund for the absence of rescue workers from work a certain proportion of the loss of profits. In cases of injury to the paramedic you are alerting during training or intervention, we will see to it that the person who called the ambulance will be responsible for this, that is, compensation during the time of the hospital. Then we will also implement additional insurance for voluntary operational firefighters and rescue workers to a certain extent, in particular to the extent that we refer them from one part of Slovenia, to the affected area. These are the obligations we want to settle with the law and we will do so this year. This can be done by the Ministry of Defence in the context of amendments to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. However, in order to address all the levels of problems that occur with voluntary rescue workers, it will be necessary to amend legislation in the field of tax legislation, insurance and other parts of Slovenian legislation, which is likely to be discussed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Your Honor! It would be nice if we could follow the editorial's words to this law that this is a law that is intended for those who carry out fire protection and disaster management activities, and so on, as well as those that these volunteers and professionals help them. However, it is more obvious that this law does not follow the definition of last year's decisions on the Resolution on the Protection against Natural Disasters, etc., as stated in the 2009/2015 period, which clearly states that firefighting, as such, should be an integral part of the defence system and security in the Republic of Slovenia at all. Recent discussions are on whether it is right and reasonable to say that we are preparing an aviation or helicopter intervention unit in Afghanistan, Kosovo and elsewhere. This, however, is one of the units that, together with rescue workers in civilian work, is still very important in the system of putting out and preventing accidents or dealing with the consequences of disasters in the mountains and elsewhere. And only by considering as a whole the protection system against natural and other disasters could we understand everyone's well-known and respected role as firefighters in this system. They're one of these. It would be very wrong and, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy, I reject any suggestion that when we cannot accept partial regulation of a system, we should point to the point that firefighters are well-managed and therefore we reject this law. No, that's not what this is about! But in 2006 we last amended the Fires Act, you know what the law is, you also know some of the proposals that were rejected at the time and are now introduced into the law, which was copied from that time. Of course, those were the opposition’s suggestions at the time, but this law is not something to be said in this way. In the Liberal Democracy, we simply believe that this is such an important issue that it is necessary to find a common language and, in the context of the discussions on the whole range of protection and resolution, as we say, is very close to us and we are talking about these issues in the context of the security and defence of the country, and there may also be one part of the budget that is intended for other things, some of the debates that also talk about radical changes are possible in the public these days, and I believe that, on an "evolved" basis, we will come to the conclusion that the actual system of defence and security of the country will include, in particular, this part, when it comes to the rescue and protection of people from natural and other disasters, which will soon become a greater threat to the Republic of Slovenia and also wider in the region than armed conflicts. That the part where the Republic of Slovenia can help with these experiences, with these potentials it has, in the international space when disasters occur - a good case was the earthquake in Pakistan years ago, a good example is also a good case whenever there are some complications, including Haiti and an example of the assistance of the Republic of Slovenia in this case and so on. It is therefore important to understand that we are giving all our support to all initiatives that contribute to the proper regulation of the status of volunteer and professional firefighters in all areas, with all the legislation, as well as to take this into a joint programme rather than separate from other rescue workers. We also have volunteers in the Civil Protection and other segments and they are also to be taken care of. As it is said, this is not to be understood as not supporting the resolution of certain issues in the field of firefighting, but the concern that the matter be resolved in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please. I'm sorry, Social Democrats, yes. This mistake hasn't happened to me in over a year. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings to the secretary, to the coworkers. When a natural disaster occurs to us in the broadest sense, we always expect someone to come to our aid: professional firefighters, rescue workers, civil protection. Such assistance is expected by citizens immediately and in the highest professional capacity of rescue workers. Some natural disasters are of greater scope, and then people expect some general solidarity, especially the help of all those who help their mission - to help people - understand that they are involved in various NGOs, such as voluntary firefighters, Red Cross organisations, Mountain Rescue Service, lobster societies, diving societies, cinematic societies, camp and skating organizations, amateur clubs, and probably others who are trained at their own time in order to be able, together with professional firefighters and civil protection, to help people in distress. Therefore, the operation of all units involved in the protection and resolution is extremely important. It is not good to exclude any unit or group from the determination of special status, since all, within their capabilities, are doing extremely important work. The proposal for amendments to the Firearms Act, which we are considering today, is essentially a copy of some of the amendments to the Firearms Act proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 9th meeting of the National Assembly on 28. 9. 2005 and he also rejected them. It is true, however, that at the time such proposals were made by the then opposition group, the Social Democrats. And despite the fact that these proposals were actually written on the skin at the time, we could say that firefighters and the needs of firefighters' organisations, which, just as in 2005 and today, have faced some of the same problems. At that time, Member Robert Hrvat, who was once a professional firefighter and is still associated with voluntary firefighters and is familiar with the issue of fire and protection and rescue in its entirety, supported the position of the then government, which did not support the changes in the law, and added, I quote from the magnetogram of the 9th session of the National Assembly in 2005: "The law of the operational firefighter does not define in terms of his employment and this amendment does not in any way fall within the context of the law itself. But this law, we can say, is a good foundation to be built up, of course with novels of a law in which the minister is already...". Mr Erjavec, then Minister of Defence, was thought to have "said earlier, namely, the Law on the Financing of Communities, Insurance Laws, the Tax System." It's a shame to have the opposition back then. [[?]] It did not bring such important changes to its end, as I think they knew what needed to be changed. Member Miran Jerič also rejected the changes in the words, a quotation from the magnetogram of this same session: "But these solutions do not belong in the Firearms Act, but it is only right to draw attention to these things and to impose on the Government when other sectoral legislation is being prepared to regulate these status changes." You could also list the rejections of why it is not appropriate to support the changes made at the time, even though all of them were united in order to do something about it and to urge the Government to do so. And they were right, even today it is not appropriate to support these changes in the law, especially because the amendment itself in the Firearms Act does not bring a better position than to firefighters and not to other volunteers who participate in units of protection and rescue. The proposal is a declaration provision and is not realistic in practice. As in 2005 it is now the case that an appropriate solution should be implemented in individual sectoral rules governing the tax system, insurance or the financing of municipalities or local communities. However, from the 2005 proposal to today, despite the then rejection of the amendments to the Firearms Act, in 2006 the bill of protection and rescue was amended, namely the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. It is extremely important that the status of all rescuers of both voluntary firefighters and all other rescue volunteers with members of the Civil Protection Service be consolidated. A reasonable absence from training and intervention works is regulated. The right to compensation for payment shall be regulated when the paramedic is called upon to intervene. Protection shall be provided in respect of the performance of duties in accordance with health and pension and disability rules, provided that the intervention would result in injury, illness, permanent or temporary loss of general working ability or even in the event of death when the paramedic is in training, intervention or on the road. What was largely possible is that for the first time the status and second time all rights have been harmonised and unified for all paramedics and not only for designated members of Civil Protection or firefighters. This was certainly a major contribution in 2006 to the recognition of volunteer status in the field of protection and rescue. In our view, these changes have also followed a proposal that we have already drafted by the Social Democrats in 2005. But that's not all. And here we agree with the proposalers that, above all, other sectoral laws need to regulate this area. This position of the applicants is from 2005 and is not covered by the current proposal for amendments to the Firearms Act. In fact, the question is why, until the end of 2008, when they were in power, they did not settle all of this and today they are proposing such changes, which they know are not appropriate, or at least so stated in 2005 and still propose them. The Group of Social Democrats will not support the current changes, but will advocate that changes in the law already listed will result in changes that will largely upgrade the already adopted Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, thus ensuring a longer-term better status for all rescue workers, as well as for those working organisations that have such noble people as employees, so that they will not know at the time of the absence of rescuers, when they save the lives and assets of those at risk, at any possible reduced earnings or expected profits. It is true, however, that in the past there has been sufficient time and even the state's public finances have been more favourable to complement all of these, which we both know should be complemented. There was no real will, not with the then government, nor with the MPs of the then coalition. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will make all the necessary changes together with the Ministry and coalition partners by the end of this mandate, including the implementation of the resolution adopted last year in the field of protection and resolution. I hope that the opposition will also support us in all the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Respectable. Firefighting legislation was last amended in 2005. This amendment of the law has much more precisely defined the individual concepts and their interpretations in the field of firefighting, the role and importance of the provincial links and the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, the way and possibilities of connecting firefighters' societies, the role of the State, the way of financing and so on. In this law, a more precise definition of voluntary firefighting and voluntary firefighting companies was particularly important. In our view, legislation needs to adapt to the reality achieved and to the current situation in Slovenia. It should also be updated and updated in the light of experience gained. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we set ourselves a final regulation on the status of a voluntary firefighter for one priority of our programme before the elections. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the situation in which we are in which the Government has budgetary difficulties, and we are even more aware that they have the same or even greater problems of the municipality, which is being transferred from the country more and more. As one major obligation, the costs of compulsory health checks and health insurance are shown, i.e. for the performance of operational firefighting tasks, firefighters have to meet psychophysical conditions because the work of an operational firefighter is dangerous and psychophysically very difficult, often requiring firefighters to exert great physical effort and to use special, personal and common protective equipment. In the performance of the public fire service, the injuries of firefighters are also common. We therefore propose that, in these difficult times, funds for these commitments be provided from the State budget for the municipalities. Article 2 indicates the direction in which the firefighter-employer relationship is regulated. Its importance gives guidance for regulating the incentives for employers to employ an operational volunteer firefighter. Support for this Article will also provide a basis for regulation in areas defining these relations. Voluntary operational firefighters are of paramount importance for the provision of compulsory public fire service and should also be duly motivated and rewarded for the hazardous performance of their work. The State should also provide any voluntary operational firefighter with additional health insurance and additional pension insurance for each day of the public fire service. The State must do its utmost to finally recognise the right status for firefighters and to enable them to function as effectively as possible, especially since firefighting companies are organised on a voluntary basis and therefore depend on their professional and infrastructure skills as a result of their lives. In our view, the law is of great importance, as we have been developing firefighting in recent years as a general rescue service that is ready at any time to come to the aid of anyone and anywhere. This means more than tens of thousands of volunteer firefighters who perform tasks as a general rescue service. How important this general lifesaving service is, the most important has proved to be the current annual storms and floods, where we can see the effectiveness of these services. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on you Members and we expect your support for this proposal. The definition of the contents of the Firearms Act will only be mentioned, so that the changes will also take place in laws that regulate the relationship we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Dear President, Madam Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we really appreciate the dedicated work of volunteer firefighters who have operated in Slovenia for over 140 years and have joined 118 fire brigades in Slovenia, a total of 1,363 voluntary firefighters, with more than 133 thousand members, of whom 40 thousand are operational firefighters. Many accidents and fires every year call for interventions in which thousands of volunteer firefighters are unselfishly involved. In the current case of rescue, there is an effective firefighter intervention, with which they prevented a possible disaster two weeks ago at the time of the fire in the Troyan tunnel. Loyalty to help and participate in resolution is a motive that combines firefighters to work voluntarily to help the needy, so it is right that the state appreciates their work and listens to the problems they face. Among these warnings is the irregular status of volunteer firefighters, with whom they have been turning to competent firefighters for many years. As a key task, the Firefighters Association of Slovenia set out to regulate the status issues of operational firefighters in 2003. For the purpose of addressing key issues in the field of the regulation of the status of firefighters, they also appointed a special commission for the status to act in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence to regulate the status of firefighters. In the Group of Members, we really support the efforts of the Association of Fire and stress that they must be implemented in accordance with the financial capabilities of the State and also by taking on appropriate responsibilities by the local communities. Expectations for systemic management of outstanding issues are justified. For this reason, it is important for the competent authorities to take full responsibility for their work, with the populist and unrealistic proposal of the Firearms Act tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group, certainly not helping them. The bill is in large part a copy of the proposed amendments of the SD Group to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act 2005, which the then coalition, led by the SDS, rejected as pointless. As with the many other laws we have witnessed by the proponents of the SDS Group in recent months, there is also an interesting phenomenon of forgetfulness or a different perception of the area governed by the Fire Action Act. They do not define the operational firefighter from the point of view of his employment, as the representative of the SDS Group clearly stated in 2005. Today, when the SDS is in opposition, this awareness in this parliamentary group obviously cannot be overcome. In their desire to please, they propose a law with four articles. Of these, as I have mentioned, two articles are a copy of the SD amendments, Article 3 is new and Article 4 provides for the validity of the law. The proposal, although with only four articles, fundamentally changes the concept of State security and by supporting it, in fact marks the beginning of the end of volunteering and the end of local responsibility to ensure effective fire safety. In the SDS Group, we will not support the SDS proposal, but we are working towards appropriate solutions that will actually improve the status of voluntary firefighters and of all other rescue workers, in particular in terms of their relationship with employers, and we will support the amendments to the tax and insurance and other sectoral regulations, as well as the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents announced by the Government, which will actually help improve the status of voluntary firefighters in Slovenia, as opposed to the SDS Group proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party we support the proposed additions to the Firearms Act. We believe that the importance of the operation of firefighters has been unduly neglected in the past. The importance of the operation of firefighters has again become very serious in recent years in the face of major natural disasters. And most worryingly, these natural disasters, such as floods, hailstorms, storms, hurricanes and fires, are increasing. This makes it all the more important for firefighters to get the place that belongs to them in Slovenian society or to get it back to them. If I recall all these accidents, who first jumped to help the citizens. Firefighters who covered the roofs in the rain and wind, saving the owners what they could save. And by this resolution, the State also saved insurance companies expenses for compensation for damages. Nobody talks about these numbers. There are also reserves here that apologize for being able to follow the path recommended. In order to carry out operational fire tasks, firefighters must meet psychophysical conditions because the operation of an operative firefighter is dangerous, psychophysically very difficult, as firefighters often have to overcome major physical efforts and use special equipment and common protective equipment. Such working conditions also often result in damage, so it is right for the State to provide adequate insurance and also to cover the costs of additional insurance. This, in our view, is really the minimum that the state should devote to firefighters who are willing to work voluntarily and are often in danger themselves in this work. If such an attitude toward firefighters continues, then it may be that in a few years we will have a firehouse empty and I do not know how we will be then. We do not want this in the Slovenian People's Party, so we will also support the proposed law. However, I am sure and also experience shows that the people who run the ministry have a hearing for this topic and that we will successfully resolve this subject for the good and satisfaction of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Fire Act. Anyone who knows firefighting in Slovenia, however, I am sure that many of you who are sitting here also speak with great respect about firefighters. The firefighter is an indispensable part of our protection, the protection of our lives and our material possessions, and without this work based on a voluntary basis, we could not imagine what we are enjoying today because of them. With great respect for firefighters and firefighters in our country, because their noble and noble work has become their way of life, and we have great support and great security. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the status of operational volunteer firefighters should be properly regulated and that employers should be stimulated to employ voluntary firefighters. However, we must not forget any other voluntary paramedics who, like firefighters, jump to the rescue of people affected by natural and other disasters. Unfortunately, according to our assessment, the proposal before us is not sufficiently thoughtful and consistent. The solutions proposed in the novel are mainly included in the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and even more specifically the rights of professional and voluntary firefighters are governed by the applicable Act on Firearms. At the same time, we estimate that the status of a voluntary firefighter with the proposed solutions is not improving, especially in relation to employers, and this is our assessment of the key problem in the operation of all voluntary rescue workers. The only drawback that has not yet been addressed is the stimulation of employers to hire volunteer firefighters, with various tax incentives. Therefore, according to our assessment, it would be far more appropriate to amend tax and insurance legislation, which the Government promises and will do as it says in the short term. The National Assembly has already imposed a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters in 2009 and 2015 on the Government to propose appropriate solutions to be taken in this direction. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we are pleased to see that the number of memberships in the Gasilski link of Slovenia has been increasing in recent years. As a result, membership has increased from 2004 to 2008. Otherwise, there are about 40,000 operational volunteer firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we do not support the draft law before us because of the concerns mentioned above, but at the same time we appeal to the Government to really follow the guidelines set out in the resolution already mentioned. As soon as possible, this year, we expect the preparation of appropriate solutions that will improve the status of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers, in particular the regulation of their relationship with employers, amendments to tax and insurance and other sectoral regulations and the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The fact is, in our country, voluntary fire is substantially undervalued and this is reflected in the poor financial situation of voluntary firefighting companies, obsolete equipment, disapproval of employers when volunteer firefighters are absent from work due to action, etc. The State shall not reimburse the costs incurred in the intervention, etc. I think that the marriage proposal tabled by the SDS colleagues is appropriate, but I am sure that this marriage proposal will not receive a sufficient majority, and therefore I hope that it will keep what the Minister has promised in her speech that they will resolve in several laws proposed by the Government this year. I hope that everything will be resolved there in a complex and intense manner as one expects it to be done. On 24 May 2007, in the Slovenian National Party, we have already submitted a question or a letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that matters can be settled until now virtually nothing has changed. I therefore hope that this proposal or this promise will not be anything similar to that of the Minister. I believe her, and I hope she does. However, the Slovenian National Party will support the proposal before us, which was written by the SDS Party. It should be known that volunteer firefighters in Slovenia have an extremely long history and it should be noted that the first fire company in Prevalje was established in 1833 under the Regulation on the Protection of Iron Plants. It was not until 1873 that they were renamed the Fire Company. In Metlika it is said that this is the oldest firefighter society in 1869, but that is not true, unfortunately the Firefighters Association of Slovenia for lobbying some people does not recognise that Prevalje had its own firefighter society substantially before the start of voluntary firefighting in Germany, that was in 1843, or when the first firefighter company in Austria was established in 1851. In Slovenia it is just that they have to do everything to keep the Austrians ahead of us. It's sad, but it's real. That is how it is and also the Gasilian Union does not realize that it is important for the Slovenians to say something that we are, and to prove it, but, of course, once again, it is necessary to climb into the lower half of the backs of some Europeans, who, it seems, will continue to teach us everything we have known a long time ago. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia would therefore propose that the organisation and operation of voluntary fire companies be regulated in this promised law under one law, and of course this is also the Fires Act, and of course that tax reliefs and insurance matters be regulated in those laws. I don't know if that's gonna work. I hope so. In fact, a few years ago a survey was carried out that showed that we have extremely high fire safety in Slovenia. This also proves every time the firefighters respond to the intervention in fires and other accidents. It would be a shame, therefore, that some of the shortcomings that could be regulated by law would not make this security even greater. That is why we will support, once again, this proposed law, of course with the knowledge that success will not be, but as a warning to the Ministry of Defence, that it will be thoroughly worked in this area and that we expect a complex solution towards the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Ivan Grill, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very pleased, on behalf of the Group of Members, to express this satisfaction that, in her presentation, the Minister has expressed her understanding of this pressing problem and of the expectations of voluntary firefighting. While I agree with you that we have several levels of rescue or organisation of these services in Slovenia. It would be optimal for everything to be systemically regulated as well. And it is expected, as announced by the Government, that in the coming months or years it will also be able to prepare this. However, this law, which is, can be the first step towards solving what is certainly extremely hot and even the most widespread or the most numerous in Slovenia at this time. It's the volunteer firefighters who have these problems. It is true that last year, representatives of the parliamentary groups, as well as Madam Minister, have adopted a resolution on national protection and resolution. There we have also drawn up some guidelines, you have received majority support and it is an important document. Of course, I agree with this, it suggests a solution, but unfortunately, the resolution itself is insufficient to resolve at the operational or legal level, where there is also some knowledge of these solutions for those who are also implementing protection and resolution. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, we expect that marriage material, which will also solve those solutions in the resolution. In fact, it has been said in the very explanations that this law is essentially taking away the basic task of providing protection against natural disasters in view of fires. I agree that in the context of appropriate spending, municipalities also receive part of the funds for the operation of these fire companies, or for the organisation of these services. However, see, these resources are far too small. Trust me, not enough! And as I pointed out in my presentation of my position or as a proponent, this recession of municipal budgets has in fact reduced not only the tides, but also increased costs. Many times on these budget lines to provide funds to our firefighters, unfortunately, the funds are shrinking. I'm a fireman myself. I also attend all the conventions of voluntary societies to which I am invited. I can tell you that in the last five years, as far as we're kind of following this issue directly, I've met this subject and I know it. And believe me, the funds that voluntary firefighters receive in essence by collecting voluntary contributions - they go from house to house, they ask for money, none of those who, on behalf of firefighters, ask for these funds, collect them, probably not for themselves, but for firefighters' societies, yes. And the response, of course, as is tradition, is great. People are willing to give the last cent just so that fire companies are as equipped as possible to have the conditions to work. Therefore, believe that it is right for the State to pay more attention to this problem or to this issue. After all, the funds now provided by the congregation in the context of appropriate spending will no longer be available. But, look, I am here convinced that a country from one city can achieve significantly better conditions for payment and insurance and all that is related to these costs than any individual congregation. There can be one step closer to rational solutions. Indeed, it was said that this was a populist law and was copied from the amendments of the previous term and that it had only four articles. I would urge those who think that way or remind them that apparently these four articles are too much for some who do not understand the essence of this law and also these articles. These four articles, or above all the content that they are, resolve those expectations, as I have already mentioned, of thousands of volunteer firefighters and firefighters. It was at one of the general assemblies of the previous Saturday that a commendation of this law was received, but there was no mention of who was the proposer. That's why I also mentioned that the proponents are our firefighters and firefighters. But it has been commended, the text of this law, that it actually resolves those expectations, that it is also in the professional sense properly prepared. Even then, those who get to know the subject professionally have found that they too assume that our parliamentarians will not understand in the vast majority of the law. And that even from this point of view, because they don't understand him, he won't get enough support. But, look, these amendments, which were summarized in the previous term, were in fact already the proposals of the Association of Fireworks of Slovenia. Many congregations, mayors, some are also Members of Parliament today, made such comments at the time. It is true that not all have been summed up, but that law then made an important move to improve the operation of voluntary firefighting as well as firefighting in general, all of which, at the time, have been acknowledged. It didn't work out. It's not. But this time of five years now suggests, especially because of the voluntary fire of their action, their activities, which depend on a number of lives, look, every year we have disasters with catastrophic consequences and just volunteer firefighters are the first to be on the scene of these accidents. It is therefore necessary to move forward in order to try at least at the symbolic level. Some of the amounts associated with this are not so high that they would not be able to do so, of course, to help them as well. For I am sure that in the future, climate change will only increase here, and there will be worse disasters from year to year. And it is right that voluntary firepower is strengthened, in particular to pay more attention and motivation, education, readiness to employers and also to those who are adequately trained to be operational, trained firefighters, so that they can also be assisted in this way. In view of the lack of support from coalition parties, he believes that this law will not be further discussed, but let us hope that the words of the Minister in the coming weeks, the months, will somehow spill into the proposals we will be considering here, and that this will be resolved. That's a step forward, too. However, if that is not the case, then you should know that we are doing great harm to those who, in fact, stand by us at the most difficult times and provide their own selfless help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The Minister for Defence, Mrs Jelusičeva, also speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much! I thank you for the explanations that are being made in order to make it necessary for the municipalities to supplement or add the funds they need for the area provided for in the Law on the Financing of the Communities and for the protection of fire and safety against natural and other disasters. The problem is that no matter how much the state devotes to the municipalities, we still do not have the rules under which we will confidently know that the municipalities or mayors will also give these funds to firefighters and other voluntary rescuers. And at this point, I ask you, who are here, or mayors or mayors candidates, to think together about finding a way through which we can charge all municipalities to keep their word, all mayors to keep their word and to actually take care of voluntary firefighters in those key points, that is basic health insurance, insurance for certain special cases, especially when they go to intervention and so on. Even in cases where we add funds from the state budget for the needs of municipalities, within the appropriate use or in any other way, we do not have a guarantee, I do not have an instrument with which we can confidently say that the firefighters, whom we all are referring to today and who we are talking about, will in fact be able to reach those funds within the framework of a three-part treaty concluded with the congregation. Here's the key we need to find together. Secondly, remember that, in addition to the appropriate spending, the Protection and Rescue Board devotes at least nine million each year from the Fire Fund to the operation of various fire companies, associations for the reimbursement of co-financing of purchases, typified and standardised vehicles and for other purposes. So resources from the state level are already quite something. The question is whether we are willing to devote them at local level to what is actually the need for firefighters and other voluntary rescue workers. In addition, it would be right to look for ways to secure these funds. And secondly, I have to say that there are municipalities, there are mayors, and there are huge funds for firefighters. They also provide a large amount of funds for vehicles not necessarily or typified or even co-financed by the Fire Fund. In short, the mayors can take care of their firefighters. The problem is that when we ask ourselves how much of this money is enough for all operational firefighters, rescue workers, then the question is that one part of this obligation will be transferred back to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, do not allow volunteering, which is one of the key values of this country, to be translated into the hands of the country. The state then starts to think in other concepts, for example, economically, cost-effectively and other matters become important when it comes to spending resources from the state budget. I therefore appeal to the idea that the primary competences of the municipalities are transferred, not in terms of jurisdiction and tasks, but in terms of expenditure, i.e. the payment of these costs, are transferred back to the country. Let us also consider revenue together. I think that the key path we need to take in the future is to ensure that municipalities receive the primary sources of income and provide an adequate share of the funds for the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters. You can see on the horizon the real estate tax law, but we're back on the same story. Will we, or will you be able to accept, not only assure, but also the commitments that the congregations will then actually devote a share of this tax to this area as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I would like to point out that we are in the National Assembly, not in the council of mayors, mayors and mayoral candidates. I would ask everyone, including the Minister, to take that into account. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Fortunately, I'm not, and I'm not going to be any mayoral candidate, so I can speak casually. I'd like to say a few things briefly, because we've been told that we don't understand. I understand everything here, and I'll tell you why. The minister has now said a few things very well. We're obliged to take care of all volunteers, not just part of it. And if our concern is sincere, then I must say that this law is in some way discriminatory, because it does not take care of everything the same, but excludes the part and wants to grant this work some rights, which is right. But it is right to advocate and respect volunteerism, to go more widely, to enable then all those who make sacrifices in various calamities and so on. I'd say one more thing. It was said that this proposal actually changes the concept of state security in some way. What does that mean for volunteering? What's been said before. It has also been said that we do not understand these things about the amendments. Not to be too incomprehensible, I'll try to read it. The two amendments were tabled in 2005, and I'm going to read them because we obviously don't understand. The first was: "The status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums and tax reliefs for the employer." That was the first one. And another amendment. "To provide means to secure operational firefighters and preventive health checks of operational firefighters." These were very specific amendments. The then coalition argued the non-acceptance of these amendments, that these two amendments do not belong in such a law that they are too narrow, and that they have nothing to look for in these laws. It's right that we're principled. And as we say, we share the concern with you that you expressed here in this Chamber. If you're honest, you'll admit that your proposal likes it. And you will also admit that if we had a sincere wish, we could have done it a long time ago. But things like the Minister warned, they're not as simple as some show here at the National Assembly, you say nice things in five minutes, and then it ends. I'm afraid there are other things in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tisley. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Nicely greeted. The Honorable President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and co-workers. Members and Members of Parliament. One of the tasks of the municipalities is to provide for fire and rescue in the event of natural and other disasters. The municipalities shall transfer the activities related to prevention, education and operational actions in the event of fires and other harmful events to voluntary firefighting companies organised in firefighting associations. Firefighting companies shall ensure that a sufficient number of operational units composed of trained, trained, adequately equipped and medically inspected individuals are provided. On the basis of volunteering and humanitarian activities, firefighters are available at any time to engage in fire, flood or other accidents. Firefighters or firefighters are carriers, social, social and social activities in smaller places. They connect with other societies and are also carriers of sports, cultural and charitable events. People trust them and have great reputation and support among the crowd. In this way, they shall select a number of necessary funds to be used to regulate premises and purchase equipment. They're very expensive fire trucks. The municipalities shall finance education, training, personal protection equipment and preventive health checks from the budget. Working with young people is very important, so firefighters start participating in kindergartens and schools. Most of the volunteer firefighters are employed in companies that sometimes do not like their belongings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that only professional fire-fighting activities would require improperly more resources, so we are proposing more amendments to the Fire Action Act, which would better regulate the status of a voluntary firefighter. Companies must be motivated to have trained firefighters among employees who can immediately assist in the event of a fire or other accident within the company itself. The recovery of the company’s income in the absence of firefighters must also be systematically regulated. It has already happened several times that fire brigades have been together for several days, including at the other end of the country, for example in the event of a large-scale fire in Crassus and also in the case of floods and the consequences of storms. We also need to simplify preventive inspections of firefighters - operatives. We propose that funds for these reviews be provided by a country which could rationalise the activity if it awarded concessions to certain outpatients. We propose that the state provide funds for the accident insurance of firefighters. This insurance should provide the same benefits as the insurance of employees in the company. Firefighters are exposed to various injuries and are also in mortal danger. Years ago, there was a tragedy in Styria. A young fireman died in a barn fire. Wife, the widow wasn't busy, and she didn't see a way out of a difficult situation. She took the lives of two young children and herself, since the insurance money would not bring back the father and the husband and would make it easier for the family to survive. With better firefighter status - we will ensure that the interest in this activity remains. There's a lot of people around here who notice that the fire department is on foot. In particular, young people and employers should be motivated. Any general professional form of fire service would be much more expensive and a soul would be taken away from a lot of places. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have proposed a supplement to the Firearms Act, which will improve the situation in this area throughout the country as all municipalities are involved. And I am sure that you will also support the remaining parliamentary groups of amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Nicely greeted, president, colleagues, colleagues. A respected minister with co-workers. I come from an environment that is very threatened by many threats. In Posavje, as we know, virtually all Slovenian waters are leaking, so that we are regularly exposed to flood events, there is also a whole range of economic operators using different technologies that are very dangerous if you want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Mr. Bogovich, please, if you'll sign up again, because time is running out. Turn it off and please turn it back on. Now, note that you spoke for two minutes unregistered.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	I have more time than I intend to spend, and I intend to leave it to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	And also, as I have already said, economic operators as a nuclear power plant, in the past chlorine in Vipap and similar technology have always led us to focus on the protection and rescue and firefighting sector, which is the main pillar of protection and rescue in Slovenia. That we have a very well-built network of fire companies, and I think that in cooperation with professional firefighters we also have a brigade in Krk, a very well-established system of cooperation between the two sectors, is said between professional and voluntary firefighters. Today we have heard a whole range of activities and meanings that firefighters have on the one hand both for social activity in the premises, for involving young people in volunteer humanitarian work, for ensuring the conditions for the operation of other societies. I come from a place where we have built a firehouse in the last year where firefighters live together, where there is a youth centre and also the assets of peasant women. This general role of firefighters is very great. However, when we talk about volunteering and the importance of firefighting and the role of volunteering, I think we need to be very careful and acknowledge that firefighters carry out a whole range of tasks in the public interest, tasks which are compulsory in the protection and rescue system and cannot be represented at local and national levels without organised firefighting. I think that the areas that are being resolved in this law are areas that are still open today that need to be answered. I think it is only good for the Minister and colleagues if the opposition has now proposed similar solutions, as in the past, the second opposition, which is today's position. Which means when you come before us with a new law, you won't have any difficulty accepting it unless it's adopted today. I think it's really necessary for us to do this. For these areas, how to interest the employer, that the firefighter may be desired with him, that he may have no special faults, and that either the firefighter or the employer may be the areas to be solved. In the past, we've had quite a few experiences, and I think we've all been lucky in an accident together, and I don't know why, because these damaging events have been happening either on weekends or on holidays. Here I am referring to the storms of August 15th, the earthquake in Slovenia, even in Posavje we had this issue at the weekend 2005. At that time, we saw what it meant to have so many well - organized and motivated firefighters on the ground when we were in the same time that crime broke out in New Orleans at that time, and the congregation was organized into its original state. Mr. Rich Guy knows very well when he saw on the face of the city what destruction was at that time. That is why I think that more attention is really needed in this area. I think more attention in terms of regulating that today, I agree here with what you said by the Minister, whether it's good will or not the good will of the municipal council and the mayor, depending on how much firefighters get. In this area, I think it is necessary to find a legal solution so that this will not happen to us. I also advocate that volunteering generally regulate these differences. However, I think that because I also know the other groups of volunteer operations, that this part where there is protection and rescue in one part of those operational firefighters for certain tasks that are, for the first time, in the public interest, secondly because they expose themselves to life, where, in the end, it must be very well-known how to carry out your work, so that you are not causing new damage and are also liable for compensation for the need to further regulate this area and also to provide certain funds in some way. I can't imagine volunteering without volunteering. I am sure that time too shows that military doctrines will need a lot of attention in these areas. If you ask me, I would be much more pleased if Slovenia, even in broader relationships, in which, even military ones, we are located, is found as a country that devotes much attention to this area and instead of what kind of mission the mission is sent to in an area where great tragedies occur under living conditions that are now taking place around us. I hope that, to the extent possible, this law is passed, if not, and we support it in the Slovenian People's Party, if not, and the real appeal that you take advantage of this willingness of the entire Parliament to find smart solutions in this area. At the same time as I consider that any reallocation of funds within the Ministry of Military Affairs is necessary, I believe that this area would have the highest and first priority. I am sure that cooperation with insurance companies so far also has the potential to find some cooperation, because the good part of firefighters depends largely on the compensation of these insurance companies. Insurance companies are already involved, and I am sure that we can also find good cooperation in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The speaker, Ivan Grill, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I agree, Madam Minister, with your conclusion that some municipalities are really more careful about firefighting than others. Here, at times, there may be a greater favor for the municipal council, then even for the mayor himself, but there are circumstances that do not guarantee the desired share of the municipalities themselves. If it is a congregation with relatively low consumption, a large geographical dispersion, or a large congregation with scattered hamlets, and such cases, we face a number of firefighters and, of course, every firefighter society needs to be co-financed and, in such cases, there is a greater problem on the part of the congregation. This fear that you are expressing here is how to find a solution so that the municipalities will not abuse the funding of the country, if that is the case, of course, I am sure that there is a mechanism here that can be reimbursed. The municipality is the first to pay for these services and then to refer the application to the State, and then, on the basis of the amount already paid by the municipality, the State refunds it or, not least, that the firefighting companies directly through the Firehouse Association or otherwise enforce these requirements or, of course, requests. I think that's the kind of way I'd be able to find myself here. I do not understand myself if such a solution were to be taken to support voluntary firefighting, because here only the burden, the financial burden would be passed on to the country, all other forms of action could be the same, by ensuring or achieving more likely discounts in all those services that must now be paid. There is also one step towards rationalising these services. I also agree with you that, above all, in recent years, large amounts of funds have been reimbursed or co-financed to firefighting companies for their equipment. Last year, when your "budget" was actually put at a minimum in the coalition, there were fewer of these funds, I believe that even in 2010 it will not be, but it would probably be socially useful for the co-financing of equipment and for what firefighters need, to pay more attention. Oportunity [[?]] The costs incurred in the absence of firefighting would be some ten, if not several hundred times higher, depending on what they achieve and what they provide to firefighters or firefighters. And here I would also look for or propose solutions, especially for you, Madam Minister or Government, that insurance companies be more involved here, either in their taxes or in their premiums, to be more involved, in this funding, because, finally, insurance companies actually have many benefits here, especially when facilities or other material goods are insured, and because of the timely and good intervention of voluntary firefighters, they are less harmful and therefore have so much less cost. Here we can go to hundreds of millions of euros in the event of some major disasters, so that a solution should also be sought here. I would also comment here on one of the coalition MPs who notes that this law is unfair to other volunteers in Slovenia. I do not have any problems either, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, in order to adopt a system law where all voluntary societies operating in the field of culture, social, health, firefighting, etc. would otherwise be financed by the State. However, there should be some distinction or prioritisation, which could be of greater importance to society. Firefighting certainly tops the priority, saves other lives and, of course, exposes their own. Here, too, in this law, I don't think it would be unfair for other voluntary societies. Of course, I would also support it if such a solution or such a bill were adopted. And there's one more thing. I think it will be the most satisfying or most beneficial for all firefighters and firefighters if they don't accuse themselves here of what wasn't done. It hasn't been done in 10 years or even 20 years. I'm going to repeat the sentence that a long-standing professional firefighter said: All that you've written down here is the expectations of 10 years or more. Let us take this proposal of the law, as I have already mentioned, that these are expectations that this is a proposal for 100,000 and more firefighters and firefighters. They're the ones who'll have the most of it, not us. We wouldn't want that either as a privilege or as a populism. You don't have to understand that. Let us seek a solution in their behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. The proposer seeks to define the status of voluntary firefighting by means of his proposal and to provide greater financial security during the absence of work and until the damage suffered during the implementation of protection, rescue and assistance. The law fully regulates the rights of voluntary firefighters in greater detail so that the status of a volunteer firefighter with the proposed content does not improve in the part where he speaks to the employer. This is certainly to be supported, as the funding would have moved to the country, making the municipal budget considerably cumbersome. It is certainly important to consider paying them additional insurance. I believe that there is no need to discuss firefighters much, as we all know the purpose of their operation. We all know that these are people who sacrifice themselves for the good of people when they are threatened by floods, fires and natural disasters, traffic accidents, they also fill the leisure time of young people with education and so on. It is therefore right that the addition of the Fires Act is also supported and that the law is supplemented in those parts to which firefighters have been alerted for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister and co-workers. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. However, something has to be said about what was happening in the field of firefighting in the previous term, or it will look like you put this in today and that this has come today. It is no coincidence that the proposaler said that it is irrelevant what has happened so far. However, I think that, not to such a large extent, it is really irrelevant what the SDS did at the time, but it is important to point out some things, namely, the 2005 amendment tabled by Mr Aurelio Yuri the Government replied: "The care for the public service is within the competence of local communities and in comparable countries, neither in Austria nor in Germany, this competence has not been transferred to the country or country, so it is not possible to support the solutions with which these powers could be transferred to the state level in our country. This would have happened if the State had taken over the financing of the costs, health checks and the insurance of operational firefighters. This is one of the fundamental elements that the local community must provide". She said something else, but I don't think it makes sense to read it because you get it on the Internet yourself. In my opinion, we are in this House, I would say, a good debate on this matter. And if we really think about what happened now, and take one step forward, I don't think that firefighters can get in the way and that, of course, the problem of firefighters in Slovenia needs to be solved for the benefit of all of us who need firefighters. If we think only of the town of Koper, where I come from, where we have 1001 dangers in Luka, because we have another oil for all of Slovenia, oil derivatives, it is clear that firefighters are the guardians who watch over all these dangers night and day. As the minister said, in fact, she said almost everything about how the Government sees a solution to this problem, she said twice or three times even, I don't think we would repeat much. The fact is that this law needs to be amended differently than just two or three articles and saved by partials and firefighters, we are all happy. No, we won't do them a favor like that, because we're going to do something temporary, something partial again and we're going to have to change the law. Not only do I believe that it is not necessary to amend the Income Act, the Law on Income from Legal Persons, which the applicant has already talked about today, the Insurance Act and, of course, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, but something else. As this law changes, it will have to be amended to deal fully with rescue workers. Of course, firefighters are not just firefighters. If you look at the statistics in 2004, you find that we had 123 thousand 87 firefighters in Slovenia, 2008 - 133 thousand 65. Firefighters don't go down, firefighters don't go down, just like someone introduced. And while we also have 40,000 volunteer firefighters, I agree that the base is for later, often professional firefighters. In my opinion, the Government has made the right decision when it has decided to reach out to all these laws that I have listed to solve this problem, and that the firefighters will have some of the things that they really need from this law today. Of course, I won't support this marriage, clearly, because it doesn't define everything I've written down. Unfortunately, I don't want to paralyze it, but it's another similar law in a series of laws, with just one article, just the title, and now almost every day we get to the table of some kind of law, quickly. The closer local elections are coming, the more these laws are coming, and I hope that we will come to our senses slowly, and that we will start doing serious things, otherwise that we will do something together, not in such a way that we will rush and try to partially solve things, to see us on TV and that certain strong groups applaud us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. A colleague of the SD, who was now speaking, gave me a wonderful starting point when he said "clear that we will not support it". Of course not. But why would they do something concrete for voluntary firefighters who wear heads for sale, and who have been faced with more and more difficult tasks in recent years, even because of changing nature, due to global warming, due to increasing extreme weather events, when the SD needs money to finance deleted and all its other urgent matters. This is about something that you could actually do for all volunteer firefighters, perhaps in Ljubljana, because it is only obvious in this dimension that you think on the current coalition that you do not have so much work, but this is something that is still present outside the big cities, especially in the village where the voluntary firefighters are the first to intervene when it comes to accidents. They are the first to intervene, when it comes to all possible natural disasters, storms, even tornadoes, as we have recently had, for the huge floods we have experienced now several times. Now we will not soon talk about centuries of water, but as they show, 100 days, and then they are the first to wear their head for sale. But apparently, the current coalition doesn't touch anything. When the coalition wants to throw something out of the window in the last period, we hear that, we'll sort it out. We have also heard how they will comprehensively address the challenges of the current crisis in the ruling coalition, but only species at the Employment Institute and the horrendous debt of citizens and citizens who are now reaching the level of half of what the former Yugoslavia has achieved, and you have done so in one year. 6.3 billion euros, in case anyone in the coalition has forgotten how much you owe this poor Slovenia. You can't find the means to just take care of the firefighters. You know how it is in practice with volunteer firefighters in the village. One particular example, for when we talk about specific people, we tend to get more involved in the problem. In 2007, Gorenska experienced an extremely severe storm. At that time, you know that there was a flooded type of road, reported by all Slovenian media, repairing the consequences took a long time. Nevertheless, it was acknowledged at the time that so rapid and effective intervention by both the authorities and all the services had not yet taken place, which was recognized, but at the same time, unfortunately, many of the tragedies that had been mentioned at the time had been little, and they had apparently been forgotten. It's a specific case. In the Municipality of Cerklje is a young firefighter, he was only a few years old, helped to remove the water from the cellar which this water had watered, and due to some mistake the electricity had shaken this boy and the boy died. He had a family. Everyone was after him. He was the first to jump to the rescue because he felt what he wanted, he lived with it, he was a volunteer firefighter for a long time, that's what they had in the family. And you can only imagine what a tragedy it was for his family. Everyone who was at the funeral could see what it was. And what a problem, then, is that this country has not settled everything in such cases as it could. When it comes to achieving public interest, it is certainly worth considering that in these different difficult situations, when small municipalities, by the way, are running out of money, new and new tens of millions are pouring into Ljubljana, you know why, in such circumstances, there is certainly more than a legitimate proposal for the State to take at least the means to secure operational firefighters and the means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters. This isn't about not knowing what a huge expense it is. However, it is an important solution, which at least the worst consequences, some of them, of course all, are not possible, to some extent eliminates. It is also a recognition of these people, a gesture of recognition that the state is aware of the importance and nobility of the work of firefighters who are in modern times, I stress once again, certainly the first to face the dangers that help, which eliminate the consequences and, unfortunately, too often also wear the head for sale. When you vote on this law, keep these people in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Tom Mencinger has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The bill has four articles, of which it can be found that almost all are prescribed and are a copy of the 2005 amendment. What we have just heard is very interesting for client strategies and analysts, especially during the electoral year and this population we are talking about. This area needs to be regulated systematically, first in the roof law, this is the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Since 2006, the Commission has implemented certain credit ratings for rescue workers on the basis of the amendments. In 2009, the National Assembly endorsed the Resolution on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, which provided for the search for a solution to the status of rescue workers and the relationship between voluntary rescue workers and employers. Amendments that systematically regulate the status of volunteers also in relation to employers should be addressed in the following laws: Law on Community Financing, Law on Income, Law on Insurance, Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and Law on Firefighting, in particular Article 26, most likely in any of the other articles of this Act. All of us who are dealing with firefighters, whether they are professional units or voluntary firefighting companies and units, are aware of the importance of these services. We can say, as the commander has repeatedly pointed out, that they are the backbone of Civil Protection. In fact, at all of these events, either floods, fires, or even fires, they are the first to respond. In addition, we have heard this important note of volunteering several times today. I am convinced that there is a need to insist on this and to continue to care for it, because in fact firefighting societies and firehouses are some centres of social, social, as mentioned above, and social life, so these things need to be cared for and also helped to keep this thing at at least the level that it has so far. So I'm sure a few more laws will have to be changed and these things will be dealt with in the laws mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with co-workers, nice greeting! I'm going to say that when we talk about firefighters and firefighters, we can say a lot of nice and good after some big action has been completed, that is, after storms, fires and so on, when they've done their job. And unfortunately, I also have one sad experience, a story where over 100 different societies from all over Slovenia participated, and we know that these are voluntary firefighting societies and so on. But, you know, between these 130 thousand and, say, 40,000 operational members of a voluntary fire company, yes, you know, it's voluntary, it's voluntary to join society and it's voluntary to step out of society, but everything else is an obligation that you're also imposing when you're a member. However, I am sure that the state, the government, should still take a little more care of certain parts of this fire department. This proposal for a law proposed for operational firefighters and preventive health insurance funds seems to me to be a minimum of the minimum and compensation of employers for the day when it is in the position of protection, rescue, whatever the case, then for pension and disability insurance. Specifically, firefighter education. However, those societies that come from municipalities where so-called appropriate use do not have some other major own resources do, of course, have less resources available. Education in centres means a significantly higher cost for those municipal budgets. I'd like to draw your attention to something else: maintenance of technology. Today we don't really know how to imagine a fire company without breathing appliances. But maintaining this technique is professionally profitable, it's a market price. This could also be arranged at the state level to be a non-profit price. By doing this, we'd be helping to categorize, acquire vehicles and stuff again. I would suggest that the state do some kind of categorization, and say, to so many people, third class society, second class society, first class and then co-financing - in what way? We're not all the same. We're not all the same. The government accepts the threat index every year and, of course, it could also co-finance, not just 20% for VAT and so on, according to the threat index. In short, there are a few reserves that would help in this. I agree that there is something else to be added. I also hope that the law will go to a second reading, where we will be able to amend it, and the government, the coalition and so on, so that we can come -- let's agree, well, can we agree at one point, but that this should not be a prestigious political issue?Oh, my God! Can the coalition take this step?Oh, my God! Please. Not for himself, for the sake of security, for the sake of security in this country, for the quality of life in this country, for the sake of citizens and citizens. I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I think my forerunner actually gave me a good point, yet a few words before that. I didn't quite understand this term "supporting." Now, if that's what you mean by taking care of someone voluntarily, I don't know if it's supportive, but I didn't get it very well. [[...]] If we go to amend some other regulations, especially those on the primary sources of the congregation, it is a solution to me, certainly a solution. But, however, you have to say the following. We're only proposing four things that have 20 million. If that 20 million is not there right now, I'd say I understand. But then let us at least let this law be released, as my colleague Pukšič says, into the second reading or let it go on, not after who suggested something, who achieved something, who failed, coalition, opposition and so on. Let us take this step to make a second reading and then try to do in another reading what this country can contribute at this time can do in this area. However, even if it is only one step, but also if it is possible to arrange the budget when it is still possible, it is 2011 and not 2010. And why am I saying this? In my area, I've been following firefighters for quite a number of years, and everyone says that, including the Ministry of Defence, it's also necessary to say this in some way, taking care of them through those grants they can give them, for which they are in fact extremely grateful. But it is also true that when we compare firefighters with the context of other voluntary societies, it was said earlier that they should be levelled. Look, I wouldn't be exactly for that reason because tomorrow can be a voluntary society, and the Marjet Society will have the same status as firefighters who exist in the Slovenian space for 130, 140 years. After all, they are people, after all it is a voluntary organization that has survived Austria-Hungarianism, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Socialist Yugoslavia and today it is in Slovenia. It is an extremely long time when this organization lives on volunteering. And that's also true if you're listening to the firemen's reports. These days they have general assemblies, you can see that, in fact, there is very little classical fire-fighting activity when they put out fires, or in a small part, that everything else, at least in rural areas, is not possible to imagine any normal life, without their involvement, from where I don't know the celebration, the merryries, and especially what is called volunteerism, when people need them, it's a flood, an earthquake, which is, I don't know, a reptile or whatever it is. So I think we need to separate the firefighters from the other volunteers and move on. Just step forward. If this does not work, what we have proposed, then it is also acceptable to me that it is less, at least at the personal level I am speaking, it is acceptable. But if this law will experience a coalition "no", then I will say that the coalition is playing a game that is not honest and all those speeches that we hear from coalition Members, because mine was not like, I can't take seriously if the marriage didn't go to another reading. I expect that he will go to a second reading and that we will give in a second reading what this country can do at this time and what the budget can assure the Minister, because I believe that, beyond that, she cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. According to the proposalers, the basic objective of the amendment of the Firearms Act is to define more precisely the status of a voluntary firefighter and to provide greater motivation for working in voluntary firefighting companies and to further encourage employers to employ operational volunteer firefighters. In fact, the bill we have already heard today is a copy of the 2005 proposals of our fellow Member, Aurelio Yuri, which he submitted to the government's amendment to the Fire Action Act. In September 2005, the government coalition rejected the proposals made by the Social Democrats, arguing that the law of the operative firefighter does not define in terms of his employment and that the amendment does not at all fall within the context of this law and that these solutions should be incorporated into the Law on Community Financing and the Insurance and Tax System. The government doesn't support the law this time either. However, appropriate solutions will be proposed to improve the status of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers, in particular their relationship with employers, when amending tax, insurance and other sectoral regulations and the umbrella law on protection against natural and other disasters. This opposition law, or the largest opposition party to the SDS, is also part of a set of laws that are likeable, this time already pre-selectively coloured and without adequate funding in the budgets already adopted for 2010 and also for 2011. This law also changes the concept of voluntary fire-fighting and even supports it in some contradictory sense, which, on the other hand, means the end of volunteering and local responsibility. If we look at the text proposed by the SDS in article 1 of the novel, which reads: "The status of operational voluntary firefighting and firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter with which the employment of firefighters is stimulated, so that employers are reduced insurance premiums and have tax reliefs." This is, of course, a declaration provision which is not realistic in practice. Appropriate solutions will therefore have to be implemented in the rules governing the tax and insurance system, as already stated. Amendments will first have to be enforced in the roof law, which is in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. However, certain credit ratings solutions for rescue workers have been introduced by this law since the novel in 2006. It also regulates the relationship between employers - volunteers, volunteers, and professional members of the Civil Protection Service, is justified by absence from work, personal income refund, insurance. Last year, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters in 2009-2015. It is this document that obliges us to properly resolve the status of voluntary rescue workers, not just firefighters, and to regulate the relationship between voluntary rescue workers and employers. As it is said, a comprehensive regulation of this area requires a series of interventions to existing regulations and laws. In 2012, the appropriate consumption of municipalities should be increased and the Community Financing Act should be amended accordingly. Under the movement tax, it should provide for the deliberate use of the work of these fire safety measures. Under the Income Act, we should increase the percentage of funds that we can give to companies and other humanitarian organisations at our discretion. Thus, an additional 0.5% could be allocated exclusively to organisations operating in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. However, the fact is that the quota has not been fully used so far. Thus, from this title, not only for firefighting, but for the whole area, only €8 million is raised and €5 million is untapped. In addition, there are a number of amendments to the Insurance and Legislation Act which regulates tax reliefs. We therefore expect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will first come to the National Assembly in the spring with an appropriate amendment to the umbrella law on protection against natural and other disasters, which must be followed by changes to the remaining rules, which I mentioned earlier. Without voluntary firefighters, of course, we cannot imagine action in the face of all kinds of natural and other disasters. Voluntary firefighting must continue to be encouraged and supported. It is a joy to see that participation in voluntary societies continues to grow despite problems. In 2004, there were 123 thousand 78 of them, and in 2008 there were 133 thousand 65, while in 2008 there were about 40 thousand operational volunteer firefighters. On Saturday, I attended the general assembly of Idria's voluntary fire company. By the way, we've had archival resources since 1779. And this year, the company will celebrate the 120th anniversary of uninterrupted operation. In 2009 alone, nearly 10,000 voluntary hours were spent by members and members of this society, with eight other small - city associations operating in the congregation. Only the municipality of Idrija will contribute around EUR 360 000 to the scope of the civil protection and protection system against natural and other disasters this year in the municipal budget, mostly for firefighting activities. In the last few years, we have had a series of natural disasters in Slovenia. In 2007 the railways, Cerkno, were destroyed by Franja. The end of last year was floods, fortunately only in the Soča basin area. If we had such flows on Sava, Drava and Mura, the whole country would be underwater. Here too, the main burden was borne by voluntary firefighters and members of the Civil Protection Service. Regulation of the status of a voluntary firefighter is one of the fundamental preventive measures in the field of protection and rescue. For this reason, I propose to the Government that, in addition to intervention measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a programme of systematic preventive measures to prevent the consequences of natural disasters due to water conditions, floods, low-level watercourses and storms and erosion or reptiles, this is a Slovenian platform to protect against natural disasters, following the example of 56 countries in the world, which have already organised their own platform for disaster risk reduction, including our three neighbouring countries. So, I propose or expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry to prepare a comprehensive system for solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. It is necessary to react again to a number of observations mainly by coalition Members, because they are reading the populism, the unrealism of this proposal, that it is not realistic, that there is no means envisaged for the remaining legislation to be systematically regulated. Look, it's obvious, and I've warned you many times in my debate that you haven't read the law at all, the one you're the loudest right now. This law, if it were accidental, because it would not be adopted in such a form, would have entered into force 1. 1. 2012, which means almost two years would have had those laws to be amended. In fact, this would be some kind of pressure or, last but not least, an incentive for the Minister, or the resort, to get all those in charge of government services to look for solutions to this problem more quickly. You all agree that this is a problem to be solved, but there is no solution. Again and again, you're reading populism and so on. We, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, have also written these solutions, which I now propose, into our electoral programme in 2008 and would also implement them. And another thing that might be eloquent enough. When the Prime Minister of last year was Mr Pahor at these 104-year-old events, of course, he also received recognition, but this recognition was probably given with some expectation of the Firefighters' union or firefighters themselves. And that promise that this issue will be resolved systematically by 2013, I'm sorry, I think it's not real. 2013 this Prime Minister of the Government and you, the coalition, will no longer be far away in this role in which you are today. So be really constructive here and look for solutions. Above all, as I said, have this proposal for a proposal from firefighters and firefighters, not SDS, and we can also resign as a proposal here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary. It has been heard several times that in the previous term the Government has not done everything, including by not initiating a procedure to amend the Firearms Act, in a manner similar to that proposed by the SDS party today. DeSUS deplores at this point the fact that it consisted of the Government during that period, and that we did not, at that time, more upright and more swearingly represent the view that this matter, this content in the field of firefighting, really needs to change. But nothing's too late. We also welcome and respect, from this point of view, the proposers who propose amendments to this law, but all that has been said by the DeSUS Group is the argument that at this moment we do not support these solutions, that we trust the Minister's statement that we also trust the Government's statement that it will solve this area in a comprehensive manner in order to change the funding system, in the field of tax legislation, insurance and, finally, in the area of municipal financing legislation. In June today, the President of the National Assembly mentioned and pointed out that this is not a meeting of mayors and mayors who are rooting for firefighting, because this is probably the population that knows what firefighting in Slovenia means most at the moment, that the mayors and mayors in Slovenia are aware that this is an indispensable part of our protection and rescue, and of the part that we can always rely on, and also of the part that in certain places in the Slovenian space does not only mean protection and rescue, but it means a movement of some kind of development, progress, movement of some kind of pulse in these places. That is why we are particularly interested in mayors and mayors in regulating this area as it is set up and as it is specified. Indeed, what the Minister has pointed out and mentioned is that appropriate spending is not largely sufficient for all these fire brigades, which we have in a local community, to be able to provide them with equipment as they wish to be given money to maintain their firehouses. This is why we are always looking forward to the change envisaged in this sense that some money will also be needed to promote firefighting in all these areas. The important thing is, it's not just the fire department. It is important that it is also for all other voluntary paramedics, such as mountain paramedics, such as cave rescuers and divers, and so on, so that this complex intervention into this legislation will help to make things right. We also rightly expect today's vote, as I have said, against these separate changes that affect only the partial area. We expect that this year, and in the first half of this year, it will come to the table of all these comments, or amendments to the law, in order to ensure that firefighting is functioning normally. Allow me to do so because I come from such an area, there is also a need to consider road rescue concessions. We know that some of the institutions that are professional fire brigades are today under pressure and solely for the financing of municipalities, all these municipalities are unable to finance and maintain professional fire brigades. However, since we know that at the time of the concession they have larger resolution territories, for example, on the roads, in these cases the Ministry of Defence should also listen to such roles as they already exist, in order to grant road rescue concessions and in order to ensure a resolution standard and some security, which is certainly to the citizens and citizens of Slovenia. So, as has been said, the Group strongly supports all developments that will follow in all legislative changes, as already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. With the proposed additions to the Firearms Act, I agree and do not accept the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the status of a voluntary firefighter with the proposed solutions does not improve. Especially in relation to employers, which is also supposed to be a key problem, as I hear now in the debate. As we are already used to hearing, in this case the Government will also improve the status of voluntary firefighters in its own way, usually systematically undetermined in the far future. This time, I hear, tax, insurance and other sectoral regulations are changing. Among other things, the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. I will not discuss in broad terms the important role and importance of volunteer firefighters in the implementation of their tasks, protection, rescue and assistance in the fire protection and protection system against natural and other disasters, and finally this is a large number of brave, self-sacrifice, self-sacrifice people, about 130 000. Can you imagine? This is the true army of people whose work and sacrifice we must certainly respect, appreciate and even by our power in our way, it is here, through legislative procedures, to enable their work to be done safely and, of course, for the benefit of all of us. However, what is important in my view is also the importance of at least some of the local community's financial burden and the uniform arrangements for the provision of funds for the provision of operational firefighters, their health checks throughout the Republic of Slovenia. Depending on the financial capacity, the ability of each local community, because we also need to be aware that there are very different capabilities depending on the location of the local community. It is said that in some ways they are not in an equal position and this must be taken into account. Firefighters across Slovenia, for example, are not least attached to the proposed additions and changes, as I hear, to the Moroccan, Murishkobazoba and some other firefighters believe that a proposal to supplement, say, Article 5, is meaningful and necessary for regulating the status of firefighter, because this solution will stimulate the employer to hire and encourage workers to operate in firefighting. Even with the addition of Articles 8 and 26, the differences between firefighters will be resolved as a result of the financial situation, as mentioned earlier, of individual local communities. In this way, the legislator will ensure the uniform protection of health and compensation for all volunteer firefighters. Since these supplements provide, in fact, for a more appropriate status as a voluntary firefighter, we fully support these additions in the Slovenian National Party. I also propose that these solutions be introduced into the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in such a way that the status of all taxpayers, members of the system of protection and rescue will be regulated in a uniform manner. What I'm telling you now, these are actually comments from the field, from the fire companies themselves, and I think you need to take them, dear representatives of the government, very seriously, because you're here not least because of them. However, the possibility of regulating the obligation of citizens to act in the protection and resolution system should also be explored by putting them ahead of the obligation to work at the time of the implementation of the protection and resolution tasks arising from the laws in this area. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! We have before us a proposal for an amendment to the Firearms Act, which follows very closely the commitments made in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters between 2009 and 2015, which was adopted in July 2009. The fact that such commitments were made also appears in the Government’s opinion. And let me first read what we wrote down or what the government has written down, and we Members have completed it in that resolution. It says: "In supplementing the legislation, opportunities will be re-examined to adequately stimulate employers who employ voluntary paramedics, especially in insurance, social, tax and other areas." And then: "In order to improve the status of rescue workers, special emphasis will be given in particular to providing the necessary resources for health checks, sickness insurance or injury in the performance of protection, rescue and assistance tasks, as well as disability insurance in the event of disability in the performance of protection, rescue and assistance tasks." Finally, I have even suggested this: "It will be possible to re-examine the possibility that companies acting in the public interest in the field of protection and rescue will be able to benefit from the contributions from events organised to obtain additional funds for their activities." A well-written resolution, with important emphasis and, of course, both Members and Firefighters in Slovenia expected us to implement it. Madam Minister, the law before you, which we have written in our parliamentary group, which was written by people who are very active in firefighting, is helping the Government to achieve solutions for which we have all committed ourselves together in the resolution. I know that there are different opinions within the coalition on resolutions. On the Committee on Defence, colleague Anderlič said when we talked about the resolution and what the resolution on the fundamentals of development entails, i.e. the proposal for the Slovenian Army, "The resolution means nothing and is not important." And I hope that this coalition will not accept this opinion that the resolutions after adoption are to be placed in the table below and no longer taken into account. Such an attitude and such behaviour would be extremely impractical and unacceptable, as a result, I expect the government coalition to say that every law, every well-intentioned proposal that goes in this direction, as we have written down in the resolution, is grateful and will be taken seriously and supplemented, if necessary. I only expect that we will vote that this is a suitable basis, and then we will work together again - the government and parliament and the opposition to make such a law that will actually solve the problem of volunteer firefighter status. This is an acute problem - or a permanent problem - in Slovenia. Before that, my colleague said there was something behind this marriage. We are concerned and concerned about what will happen next, what is ahead for the perspective of firefighters, what is with this voluntary activity, that it will be preserved, that it will remain in such form, that we can be proud, as we have already expressed here many times today, of our voluntary firefighters, who have such an important role, even in the future, for the future. They should be commended for the fact that Slovenian firefighters were the first in the monarchy to be organised, as has been said here today, and that they have the greatest tradition in central Europe. Let us see that from all the positive things that have been done, we will also do something positive for the future. Madam Minister, I know you have a lot of problems within the coalition that you are under a lot of pressure. That colleague Anderlich wrote a letter to the Prime Minister of the Government, who is practically untrustworthy for you in the area of defence. That some circles, which are the most zealous supporters of the political option of the current government, have nevertheless come with the proposal that the Slovenian Army should be abolished, which is illogical. Those who fully support the Government in the second area of the Minister are mined. Madam Minister, I am aware of these problems of yours. But make an alliance with firefighters. That'll save you politically. If you make an alliance with firefighters and go to supplement the law that we are proposing, which is also imposed on you by the resolution that you have drawn up in your ministry, I know that, as I said, you are under pressure to write a wrong resolution that is no longer valid today, that it was meant to be in a drawer. I believe you, and I believed at that time that it was at the Ministry as a sincere productive contribution to the areas of firefighting written and protection and rescue, and we are going in this direction. Let us conclude this debate today by concluding that this is a suitable basis on which we will work together on all the solutions arising from the resolution as a binding document. However, if this assembly today confirms the position of colleague Anderlič of the Committee that resolutions do not mean that resolutions are only for the moment when they are politically adopted and waved with them and are seductive to the people, then let us take this additional decision that the resolution adopted in Slovenia does not apply. However, if these adopted resolutions are in force, then we must go in the direction of the law that we have written down on the paper going in this direction and the Slovenian firefighters, for the first time, support them, secondly solves the status that, after all their statements, after all their comments, according to all their views, I was at the 140th anniversary of the celebration of the Firehouse in Cankar's home, and it was reiterated there, it was reiterated that the firefighters expect the promises and commitments of the resolution to be divided into legislative solutions in the coming period into solutions that will save the status of the volunteer firefighter. And here I expect, comrades from the coalition, that you will not object to the fact that you, too, are under the magnifying glass of voluntary firefighters. There is almost no such municipality in Slovenia where this would not be the case. Of course, here in the field of Ljubljana some Members who have mandates can deny this because this function is largely performed by professional firefighters. However, those Members who have been elected in the field of Ljubljana must have a relationship to Slovenian tradition, to firefighting, which is an expression of patriotism and altruism, to help people in distress who need help, and these assistance will always be needed. We are faced with increasingly severe natural disasters that sometimes pass into an area of cataclysm. And if development, as we see it, in the world and even in us, when there are some aggressive storms that we have never witnessed before, then we will need volunteer firefighters even more. And we need to change legislation in the direction that, in their relationship, when they have problems with employers, they will feel in some way secure, health and status. And once again, when we adopted this resolution, you were all aware, we all unanimously supported it. It would be sad if today we would withdraw from this resolution and return to the law before you, which comes from this resolution and from the implementation of the solution and proposals we have adopted in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	Mr. Jerovšek, you didn't understand the evening, you've done something wrong. I was not talking today about the resolution on TRPs, but I was talking about the resolution against natural and other disasters that we adopted in the context of the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2009, which is due to be in force until 2015 and you were talking about TRPs, these are two purely other resolutions and TRPs that have no connection. And the other thing. This resolution provides that the programme of protection and rescue or protection against natural and other disasters will be an integral part of the defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia. And again, Mr Jerovšek, you kicked into the darkness, again you did not understand the letter I wrote to the President of the Government, and I will write, because that letter says exactly what is needed, as the resolution says, money, you are rooting for some kind of understatement and for some bad purposes of money and so on, and I am rooting for the observance of resolutions and for the purpose of making money for protection and rescue and helicopters instead of for Afghanistan. And last week, even though it was denied, last week, again without the powers of the National Assembly, without the decisions of the Government, I read in a newspaper or on national television recommending a journalist who was at Poček to prepare to go to Afghanistan in 2012 instead of training for protection and rescue in the Republic of Slovenia and to protect and rescue elsewhere. That's what I'll always be warning you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	Please, Mr Jerovšek, procedurally. It's just really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Mr President, it is your duty to remind Mr Anderlich that you will give him a warning! On the contrary, he said that I am rooting for some of the purposes and ill-meaning purposes by quoting the resolution that we have adopted as binding in the National Assembly. And these are evil and bad intentions! In doing so, you are obliged, Mr President, to respond and such a Member, who distorts my words, to warn and to warn. But we do have procedural institutes, and I'm asking you to use it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I will react immediately. You used the Institute of Procedural Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished Mr. Rich Guy and Mr. Balant. I was wondering if I would take part in this debate, because I am sure that next week if there were a local election, this debate would take more than ten hours and probably one of the candidates, including Mr Jerovšek, might even come in a fireman's uniform and cheer for firefighters. Unlike some, we do not need laws, but we need actions. And some, despite the fact that we have laws, we give in the local community significantly more than the law imposes on us for these firefighters, because we all know how we need them and what they mean for our country, Republic of Slovenia. Yes, Mr. Tanko, maybe you didn't make it, and maybe I did. Even when I walk on the committees of district firefighters, I have been given this privilege in some way, that I have recently done much for a firefighter’s organization, not just in the Radeče congregation. If anyone has done much for firefighters in the past, then surely Mr Rich and Team and Mr Balant, and not least, I believe that she will do much for firefighters in the future, too, Madam Minister. I don't want to read the magnetograms back from 2005, when you gentlemen were in the government and you had a diametrically different message than you have today. I trust this government, and I believe that the Firefighters Act or Firefighters Act will systematically save this government, and that we will also lead this story to the end of this mandate in the interests of voluntary firefighters and firefighters in this Slovenia. Not that every two months he withdraws from one marriage two, three articles and likes to get them into the media politically and then, I'll say, in a way, I'll point out how you're the only one who's fighting for some things in this Slovenia. I will not support this proposal made by the SDS, which is purely political. But I expect from the government, the Ministry of Defence and also from the Botaj team to prepare as soon as possible more firefighter laws and that in some way, once we have completed this mandate, we will also succeed in bringing this story to a successful conclusion. But I'm telling Mr. Grill not to be afraid of what will happen in 2012. That's what voters and voters will say most, not Mr. Grill himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Word yes. [[...]] Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	Of course, I must protest the contempt of the fire uniform, because in a distasteful sense it was said to be something bad. Mr. Han, I've been to many elections, I've got everything so far, but since I wasn't a fireman, I didn't show up in this uniform, but of course I have deep respect for firefighters and firefighters' uniforms, and if it's yours, if you don't get through this, don't make fun of firefighters. I ask this, for they do not deserve to be mocked, despised, nor to be despised, which was previously said to us by this law for purpose and purpose. So, because we're rooting for firefighters, they're mean and bad intentions. This is unheard of talk in the National Assembly, and it's not appropriate to go after firefighters. You respect their work, respect their past merits and respect this resolution. Madam Minister, the ministry has brought it with good intentions, we have confirmed it, we have completed it, and it is up to us to fulfil it. If you feel that the resolution has been in vain, say it out loud, but not that you are only against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that none of the Members and Members have anything against firefighters and they do not want to be insulted or discredited in any way, but on the contrary, we all want some positive changes, especially in order to come across the wishes of firefighters who are doing a lot of work every day. We are proud and happy that there is volunteering at such a large level in Slovenia. But the more I follow today's debate and the more I read the magnetograms of previous years, the more I think this meeting and it deals with these points is completely ridiculous and again a farce in terms of who is now more in favour of one group's interests, and today we have firefighters on the table. And here the biggest opposition party is making a stand for firefighters, so you're the one who understands them, and we don't understand all the other firefighters. But unfortunately that's not true. And what is most funny is that what you are proposing today has been said many times already today, has been proposed in the previous mandate and your explanation was that this is not a systemic solution and that this will be resolved differently. We believe you and trust your professional services when you were on the government, and we accepted that. And that argument is also on the table today. Since you, when you were in the government and when such amendments were proposed to save the Fires Act, said that it was not appropriate to put this into law and that it did not bring anything for firefighters, we understood it as well on your part and that it would try to arrange it in some other way, those are your words. And today we are in the National Assembly, where we have the same amendments, and today you are defending them because you are the opposition and because you want to convince the Slovenian public that you are the only one who understands firefighters and their sacrificial work. But it's not like that. It is true, however, that some steps have been taken in the right direction, and this must be taken for hire and recognized. Some positive changes have been made in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. Many articles in this law are new, if we are just talking about Article 28, and speak well of what we would like to achieve today or what we all are trying to achieve, and it is well written that injury or disease during training or the exercise of protection, rescue and assistance tasks is considered to be an injury to the work for which the paramedics are specifically insured. A lot of rights have already been established in this law, but if we are to achieve what you are proposing with these amendments today, we have to do differently, because these amendments will not solve this, unfortunately, and this is the opinion of the professional service today and it was the opinion of the professional service when you were in the government. It's beautifully written that we can solve this in five cases. You have taken some steps, but it is up to us to leave this opportunity and try to arrange it. And if we succeed, we will be able to boast if we do not, and you will have the opportunity to say that we failed. Five points say well where it can be arranged. The first is the appropriate consumption of municipalities, the increase of funds since 2012 onwards, because both budgets have already been adopted. Then there are possible services within the property tax. There are possible solutions in the Income Act, the Insurance Act, tax reliefs and so on. What is more important is what the Minister of Defence has already said today and has expressed some good will to continue to regulate this area. What is under the responsibility of the Minister, this is the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, is that it will be regulated in the future, at least this was assured, by the refund of the loss of earnings. Only compensation for loss of income is provided. One step in the direction of trying to make the situation easier for employers if they have employed firefighters, so that all the losses they would have in the absence of firefighters could be reimbursed. Do not say that we have here one who does not understand the fire and their activities, because the same proposal you have on the table has been murmuring before you from our side in the previous term. But your answer was identical to what we have on the table today and what it holds. We've accepted your argument that this is no way to solve things. But I don't understand why you're denying your own argument. Why do you today reject what you have replied to the Group of Social Democrats in the previous term? Tell us that. Tell the Slovenian public why the double criteria? Why, when you had this responsibility, you did not adopt the proposed laws, today you would gladly accept them and hand them over to Parliament to accept them, thus proving yourself in the light of those who understand the most and would like to resolve the situation in the country. A little more honesty. I believe that we are all trying to do so within the resolution, which has also been mentioned today by the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the resolution does not mean much, that it will not come to this side alone, that we do not think that the resolution does not mean much. This also came from your mouth that the resolution does not mean much. Of course not. Then the actions are important. But it's a nice starting point that tells directions. The direction of the Ministry of Defence is sincere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	Mr. Ivan Grill as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Apparently, coalition colleagues don't understand what law is and what the amendment is. Mr Levanic, we are considering a proposal to amend the law, we are not dealing with amendments. If you have not cleared up these matters, you will probably find this difficult to understand and even more difficult to comment on. I would like to point out once again that in the previous term, when this legislation was also addressed, it changed where it summed up many of the proposals of the Gasilian Union, societies, municipalities and so on, and so forth, such proposals were also indicated by the Gasilian Union, and you only then summarized them, you did not invent them, and you did not own them here, that you were the ones who then "conceived". Like now, look at this time of five years, look at the five years it's been, again all those unresolved problems are increasingly exposed and even firefighting societies, all those bigger ones are facing growing money problems. And it is true that every year we have more natural disasters, every year we need more operations, interventions by voluntary operatives to try to help them now, of course. And once again, whoever the proposer is, we go in support of this and all these pretty words, what the ministry is going to do, what we're going to change. [[...]] From this beauty of saying, believe me, our firefighters have absolutely nothing. It's really nothing. And here only the laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party try to despise, define, or be unprofessional in order to have no basis. Look, it just doesn't hold. If there's a willingness, good will, let's put this first reading through, let's make an amendment. Look, these articles that are in here that open up, there's a line on two or three sides, we can completely change things or we can touch them. There's a lot of this open if there's any good will. Again, I repeat, do not discuss this subject with those who are not familiar with it, for you are actually insulting our firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	Mr. Levanic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I think we all have to stop here together because no one here has insulted the firefighters, no one has spoken against the firefighters, and no one has said that your suggestions are unprofessional, Mr. Grill. On the contrary! No one even owned that these were the proposals of the Social Democrats in the previous term, thank God that these are proposals from the professional public, and then from whom the policy draws on professional arguments, if not from the professional public. And firefighters and the Firefighters Association are, in this case, the professional public and these proposals that are being summarized today, this was said by Comparative Mr Grill, comparatively proposed in the previous mandate. And your argument, the argument of the professional services has gone in the direction that this is not how it is handled. And the solutions you're proposing today won't fix what you want for firefighters. That's the point of today's debate. And you don't help firefighters by giving firefighters greater value in today's society. That's the point. These changes you propose to firefighters do not improve the situation. This needs to be made clear today. With other things, with other laws, with the Ministry of Defence's commitment, but with such matters, we can arrange what is proposed today and what we would like to settle. So let us stick to the arguments already made in the past. Let us not make the same proposals, which we already know the expert opinion, and the expert opinion says that we will not regulate the situation of firefighters in this way, and that we will not regulate their position, improve their position in this way. So let's try to stay on the content and not use the words that anyone is insulting firefighters to show you incompetence, etc. But I hope we're talking about the same thing, and if we're talking about the same thing, then today this proposal came to this basis, so that you can read the expert opinion that your government has written to you after all and told you that this is not being regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Mr. Grill, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. See that it is known to the public in particular; we do not have an expert opinion here when considering this proposal, because this is a general debate. Here we have an opinion of the Government, which we can take to be professional, can be political, whatever. However, if you are so sure, Mr Levanič, that this proposal does not solve what firefighters and the Firefighters are expecting, show goodwill, confirm today's law that there is a second debate where representatives of the Firefighters Association will also participate in the debate, and representatives of societies, and indeed the professional public, will be there to see whether we support such solutions or not. To me so far, any event, if I was with the firefighters, has been welcomed and, of course, confirmed by all such solutions. Give them a chance, and there'll be nothing lost. Nothing. A little goodwill, let's take a look in the mirror in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. You're giving up. Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is likely that the government will respond to this debate and repeat its position once again, because it seems that we do not hear or want to hear from this House. Here again, what has already been said is a proposal for amendments to the law, which was rejected years ago with the same argument as the proposed rejection this time. The point is that this does not resolve what is intended to be the purpose of the bill's proposer and that the matter should be seen more broadly. And if I have understood correctly and listened to the Minister in her debate, of course, even at the Ministry they think in this direction and bear responsibility for the overall resolution, for civil protection and will also prepare laws, i.e. systemically and comprehensively, where they will guarantee approximately the same rights for all those involved in these activities as firefighters do. I am a member of the firefighters myself, so that I understand very well the problems they face, especially those operatives who do many good things every day to ensure that the damage they create is not greater than it could be if the firefighters did not act. And let's just think about how to solve a traffic accident, maybe we're just talking about fires, in case of floods and anything else, natural disasters. But since a comprehensive approach is needed in the event of natural disasters, the status of those involved in the resolution should, of course, also be fully regulated when we need it. And once again, I say that the views of the government, whether former or current, do not change. Both the former and the present speak of the need for systemic regulation. However, in such proposals, we must acknowledge that they are also intended to show that we have an understanding in Parliament and that we are the ones who know how to do things better than others and we count them and then offer them for an evaluation. That this is one of such approaches, but of course the conclusions and final solutions are important. I am confident that we will take a step forward in this mandate, including in this area. The firefighters are likely to be respected by all who sit here in this hall, both by their work and, of course, by their self - sacrifice and, of course, by their unselfishness. Therefore, I ask you not to bet on who is favored by firefighters, who is not favored by firefighters, who is responsible for having more firefighters than they have today, and who is responsible for not having the firefighters arranged as they want. The common objective is therefore to make them more successful and therefore to properly regulate their operating conditions. I look forward to the next step of the Ministry of Defence in handling matters that are worth noting. It has been pointed out in the previous mandate, and also in this mandate, these unresolved issues or difficulties encountered by firefighters in the management of their work are simply to be resolved. It's a warning in place. I expect the Ministry to respond appropriately to this challenge.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. There are some things in this debate that need to be responded to. After all, you have also said what the Government's position is about all these proposals coming from different sides. Is it professional or political? I would say that at certain points concerning the issue of voluntary rescue workers, the Government is trying to be as consistent as possible, always trying to respond to all proposals coming from non-governmental organisations, from the public or from political circles, by having the same protection against natural and other disasters as can be done in a comprehensive way. Of course, we are all working together to move the status of volunteers slowly forward. We are for this, and the truth is that in recent years the status of these volunteers has not remained the same. He's changed. He's improved. Last but not least, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2006 regulated many of the proposed amendments from 2005 and were not adopted as amendments to the Firearms Act, but later we see that progress has been made right in the roof law governing the whole area of protection against natural and other disasters. I am sure that today's debate and even the work on the Fireextinguishment Act will help us to make things even better for our volunteers in the future. You have opened up some of the dilemmas that concern the financing of the budget, where we will get the funds to pay for the ideas that are being proposed here today. As a representative of the Government, I must say that in the 2009 budget, we have lost 90 million in full from the defence budget, which covers both the defence system and the defence and resolution system in terms of the planned funds. However, despite this loss, we have tried to maintain at the same level the means for adequate protection and rescue, especially at the point when it comes to co-financing all volunteer societies, which also means voluntary firefighting companies. Which means that we were concerned that this very part, this particular segment, on which we are so heavily dependent in the event of all natural disasters, will not be affected by the crisis in which the government budgeted. But we've given up investment and we've made this investment, we've moved it into a long-term future, and you all know that this kind of behavior can't be repaid in the long run. Some of you are proposing that the financing of the proposals that we are discussing today should go to the military budget and you are in favour of taking or somehow balancing the needs of protection and resolution with the military budget. I must say that the loss that occurred last year, which is also taking place this year, is mainly made in the defence budget to the detriment of the military budget. As far as the Slovenian Armed Forces is concerned, it is already in force under the Defence Act that one of the four key tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces is to participate in the protection and rescue system, to address the consequences of natural and other disasters. It is said that the Slovenian Army is already involved in the protection of rescue tasks, it is preparing for this and is also working when necessary and when our needs on the ground show this. I have to say, if we are to go in the direction of thinking to tackle the situation in firefighters, we will reach the point where I must also ask you whether you are seriously thinking about carrying out the tasks laid down in the Defence Act. Are we all serious about all the expectations we have regarding the tasks of the Slovenian Army and which we must carry out on a permanent basis? If we come to the table with such a proposal, is it not, in fact, another proposal that will take the military's operational resources or resources for its operational activities? Some of you are asking what it actually means when we say that the payment of some of these proposals would be taken over by the State to support this would mean that the State or Government, at the level of the Government, should monitor for 41,000 operational rescuers their checks, basic health insurance, health checks of all kinds and so on. Such types of bureaucracy are better off not creating any more and we don't want it, let us leave it to voluntary organisations, namely the Gasilian Connection and others, who regulate it, but also, according to their opinion, with the mayors and mayors, regulate the whole issue that has been given to them in the framework of the Community Financing Act, when it comes to determining what is involved in the area of appropriate spending. When we are talking about issues relating to integrity and systemicity, I would like to reiterate. We need to regulate the area of all operational rescuers and not just one group. We need to regulate the situation of volunteers in a number of different laws, but it is true that we must also write a law on volunteering in a way that takes into account some of the solutions that we feel today in this debate and many times more, which is why we face these dilemmas on the ground. But it is also necessary to manage income and expenditure in a comprehensive and systematic way. We cannot come up with new ideas about expenditure in the crisis we are in, but we have no idea how to fix the revenue side of the budget. One dilemma you've been opening all along should probably be resolved in some way. Indeed, it is a question of whether what we are talking about today can be resolved by one law or by more laws. The government's point of view is that we have to resolve the status of operational paramedics in a number of different laws. Because what you are trying to do today by saying that the Fires Act will already force the Government, we are still at the level of the Resolution on the National Programme of Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, which has forced the National Assembly, when it adopts it, to force the Government to react by regulating it to propose appropriate legislative changes and, of course, to act operationally in order to do everything we have adopted as a kind of platform for protecting against natural and other disasters. When we look at the articles of the law that you are proposing, and we come to Article 1, in which you talk about the fundamental problem when we talk about the relationship between a volunteer and an employer, by writing down in the Firearms Act that they should reduce the employers' insurance premiums and tax reliefs, I must tell you that we will not be able to resolve this with the Firearms Act. We can write this down, but we will have to arrange this for employers in the Income Act, the Law on corporate income tax and elsewhere, with the Insurance Act. I'm afraid we're not gonna be able to handle this with the Fire Act. We can only talk flatly about a problem and there will be no solution. When you say in Article 2, that it is necessary to provide for the insurance of operational firefighters and means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters, this is in fact exactly what was envisaged in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities in the framework of appropriate spending. When we look at how many congregations are fully committed to protecting against natural and other disasters, we see that there are some 45 million euros. Both of the proposals you are proposing under Article 2 will, according to our assessment, amount to approximately EUR 858 000. These are very small funds, compared with what municipalities provide for the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters. However, I must tell you that what we, as the Government, want to do in this regard, is that in the future, we will devote more time and attention to how municipalities implement their legal obligation to provide basic conditions for the work of voluntary firefighters. In Article 3, you propose that the State provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and, for each day, with additional pension insurance. You are well aware that additional pension insurance is based on the right arising from the employment relationship, which applies only to those who carry out a business. Therefore, this additional pension insurance applies to those who are professional firefighters, but cannot apply to volunteers because their working relationship is concluded elsewhere, if at all. However, when it comes to additional health insurance, I must tell you that this is worth about €11.7 million according to our calculations. At the moment, the Government does not have these resources in the 2010 and 2011 budget. Perhaps if things change in terms of raising a social product, they can change them in 2012, 2013 or in the future. Perhaps this government will not be able to handle it, perhaps the future government will do so, and so we have adopted a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, which applies from 2009 to 2015, because these are things that need to be systematically regulated for years and not just for one government - all governments must be subject to it. And finally, an apology to all those who may be offended by my previous debate on mayors and mayoral candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. One of the colleagues mentioned earlier an alliance with firefighters, probably the Ministry or Government, the State and the Firefighters. I am sure that this alliance exists and, above all, the alliance between municipalities or mayors and firefighters remains, not because of election or other promises and expectations, but mainly because the mayors or municipalities are in charge and responsible for the area of protection and rescue and in this regard also for firefighting. And I certainly don't know any congregation where this activity would be neglected. Even since, of course, we all come from these areas, where this problem is after solving all kinds, unfortunately also because of climate change and so on, not only because of possible fires. I think the fires are getting smaller in Slovenia, that this fire protection, fire prevention, is only getting better, but there are, of course, needs for other rescues. So, sometimes, when I'm listening now, sometimes it's like being at some general assembly of some fire-fighting society, where we're probably up to all, probably hard to find any of the Members or Members, from a colleague and colleagues who's never been to any general assembly, even if there's no firefighter or firefighter. This area is being dedicated to the state, i.e. the Ministry with a team at the Ministry and the municipalities and, of course, all those who need to take care of such activities on the ground. I expect that this law, after all the discussion that it is, will not receive support, but it is good that this debate is being debated, because it is a proposal to be made, and that it will also, after all, accelerate something in the preparation of appropriate amendments to the law. I, too, have asked the Minister of Public Administration a few months ago about the law on volunteering. I think that this is the area of protection and rescue or firefighting and the status of firefighters, and so on, it is proportionate, that is to say quite a bit related to the legislation in the field of volunteering, but these are two activities and firefighting is only a specific feature in the Slovenian space, even because of a tradition that is certainly different from that of Germany or, I don't know, which is not a Central European country, much longer. When I said earlier that, of course, the structure of natural disasters is changing, it certainly also changes the need for the equipment of operational units, the need for the education of operational units, and ultimately the organisation or resolution of the status of firefighter, as well as the need to review the categorisation of individual operational units or communities, and in this regard also to re-examine the standards to be met in these units. I am convinced that the congregations are extremely well cared for, as is the administration of the Ministry of Defence, to take good care of the field of fire. After all, as I initially said, it is the mayor who is responsible for the area of protection and rescue. Regardless of what fate it will be, I suppose that there will be no positive fate of this introduced law, I will be very pleased if we will soon witness the debate in the National Assembly and the team that is preparing it, and I have no doubt that in the debate all the dilemmas that are in the debate today, and which the Minister has also ordered, will be resolved in a satisfactory manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! It has been said several times already today that it has been felt that in this year's local elections will be a flood of amendments to laws that will appeal to people, voters, but firefighters are very simple, very labour-intensive, courageous and good people, and it is important that they are also very real and know each other at the most difficult and difficult times to keep calm and to the greatest extent possible to help those who need help. Even at this point. Yesterday, I talked to some of them, and they are aware that it was not exactly the right time for them to speak. On the one hand, we are talking about the crisis, we are saying that there is no money, on the other hand we would like to make changes. I will also support the changes when, also by the Minister and the Ministry and others, the Government has said that an item through which we can finance these necessary changes. However, at that time it is necessary to approach fully, amend all five necessary laws and not discriminate against other volunteers, but look at this in full, as it is necessary. Certainly, as a member of the oldest Slovenian fire company, Metlik, I would like to conclude today, as I am at the general assembly on Saturday, with a fire-fighting greeting for help.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! Unlike many, I believe that the proposal for a law or amendments and the addition of the Firearms Act is neither professionally prepared nor comprehensive. The legal system is inadequate and also inconsistent. Such a solution to the status of firefighters in our country, or even those involved in the protection and rescue system, should be regulated in the field legislation. With these words, I rejected in 2005 the solution proposed by the Social Democrats in the law you proposed, with these words. In me, there were high expectations that within three years the status of rescue workers in this country would be settled and not fulfilled. Today I believe this government, I believe the argument that the law is inadequately prepared and that this year the government will begin to regulate the status of rescue workers in our country. We are not doing anything good with this debate, not with firefighters, but with a system of protection and rescue. Expectations in some ways are great and solutions are inadequate. I wish when the government comes with a solution that we will regulate a complete system of protection and rescue as one of the important systems of our defence system and that we will regulate the status as appropriate. So for firefighters and firefighters, for mountain rescuers, cinemalogists, divers or anyone involved in this system of protection and rescue. And this needs to be regulated in a number of laws. You're talking about a law on community funding. It is true that there is also money for fire protection within the appropriate spending, but I say that the current law on community financing is bad, that the old law was better, which, through the guaranteed spending, also provided a share of the funds for fire protection and knew how these funds should be provided. These things need to be regulated primarily in the system law, which is in the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and in the legislation on tax policy and insurance. And you are doing something else - you are interfering with this law in the original jurisdiction of local communities. The organisation of the fire service is the original competence of the local communities and responsibility of the mayor, the municipal council and anyone else who cares about the safety of our citizens in the area of individual local communities. I don't think partial marriages can be affected that way. But if the congregation cannot guarantee its original authority, let us ask ourselves what congregations we have made. Let us ask ourselves what congregations we have made. We in Hrastnik are happy to provide such money for equipment, training, insurance, medical examinations and more. And we're proud of it, and we'll do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted by the Minister and the others! I will never forget when the young firefighter and rescuer after the rescue action said, "I am here to serve my people and people." Among other things, I think that we are here too, Members, to serve our people and nation. And our mission is to take care of everyone, all volunteers and all paramedics, so that none of them will be in a privileged or different position. In fact, the bill does not solve the matter properly, and I can only say that the bill does not change the provisions of the Firearms Act, in particular Article 11a, where the public service is defined and it is precisely stated how and how things are served, the control of the use of public funds, how and how public funds are used, how and how the 45 million euros are used, why only so much and so much money is allocated to other matters, for those you speak of in these fights four articles of the law to take care of firefighters and others. I don't know where everyone's allergies to an integrated, comprehensive or systemic solution to this law, or a solution to the volunteers and their status at all. Because volunteers are important and important are their actions that they do for us and for everyone here in the hall. That is why I think that much more attention will have to be paid in the future to the law on volunteering and not just to the laws we listed, the law on income, the law on insurance, etc. There were a lot of them already listed. I think we should actually pay attention to an integrated, integrated approach and, above all, to such an approach that volunteering is resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. He's not here. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Nicely greeted! Of course it is a pre-election period and flirting with various associations, today firefighters, tomorrow we will be with hunters, with athletes, etc. I also stress this assessment because I read the September 2005 magnetogram and it points me to it. I'm not going to repeat things that have already been said. At the same time, as mayor, I cannot give up my concern for the development of firefighting, give up my concerns about the integration of young firefighters into species, decide on technical teams on equipment and on many other matters. Here I read an e-mail from a lady who sends a message from Raven in Koroška saying, "We need firefighters more than an army." When peace and everyday life are true, but to give up the army, I don't think it's an option. He is right, however, to point out that Mayor Raven in Koroška wants to abolish professional firefighters. This is due to the fact that we have fragmented this local government into small municipalities that cannot afford these costs, but not every one of you has to have a fire company unless it is organised itself. But that the mayor is refusing to abolish professional firefighters, he is taking on an extraordinary responsibility. I would like to point out that we do not have only voluntary firefighters, we also have cavemen, mountain rescuers, divers and so on. In Goriška, at least mountain rescuers save paratroopers and the like every week. We cannot exclude certain structures from these concerns, which are very important for all of us as well. Let me also say that equipment is our great concern. If we let this go, we always say harshly, Ljubljana, or centralize it, then I don't know how the matter would go. However, we have strong connections between the municipalities, we have strong connections across borders, and we have great success in working with the relevant structures in Italy. We are even preparing projects together, and we are negotiating joint assistance when it is necessary to resolve them. Volunteering, of course, is of paramount importance, whether it is bloodstains, campers, or firefighters. But I will not give thanks to all these things, because those who know me already know what a positive view I have of these structures. We have forgotten the extremely useful and effective organisation of the inhabitants of the former South, called "Nothing can surprise us". All of us who come from the previous regime are well aware of this and know how to react. Young people today look away when they meet a purser and some other action on the street. I think that we should reintroduce these values, which we have with this action "Nothing should surprise us" among the people, among the youngest to the oldest, and have great success. It's over. Of course, legislation requires changes, updates, but in all areas, at all levels, not just firefighters, so of course we will wait for the Ministry's proposals, which will probably have to involve other government representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Honourable Fellow Members and Members. It would be interesting to hear the professional public or volunteer firefighters themselves, whether they support this law or not. Unfortunately, this debate, which takes place here in the National Assembly, is entirely ideologically colored, supported by the obvious why the previous government did not do so when the opposition proposed it, and so on. I believe that this is absolutely unnecessary and offensive to firefighting in Slovenia. It is only necessary to determine whether this amendment is necessary or not, to substantiate it with arguments, and finally to take a decision. That's what I think is art. Otherwise, voluntary fire companies are one of the oldest, if not the oldest form of organization and form of social life of the Slovenes and Slovenes. And it will remain that way, whether this amendment of the law or this amendment of the law will be adopted or not. We have Slovenians still, thank God, this sense of help and solidarity to a fellow man who is in distress and in need of help. Let me mention here only fires that occur from time to time only in the village, when the farmer is burned by an economic building, and until major accidents in industrial plants and natural disasters, as was the case before the flood in the railways, could also be mentioned. In the SDS Group with this proposal, we only want to give partial recognition to Slovenian firefighting and allow it to develop further and to increase the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of operational firefighting tasks, which we know is an integral part of protecting against natural and other disasters. And it is also true that the former government or the former government could have done so. The fact is that these changes are necessary and, in my opinion, these provisions can also be amended partially if you want. The coalition wants to solve this problem systematically and comprehensively. Today is the opportunity to take this first step, and I am sure that these proposed solutions will not become unnecessary in the future, so that these adopted provisions require amending the law. The proposal, which is the SDS Group of Members, sets out, among other things, the concepts in the field of firefighting more precisely in the proposal for a follow-up. It should be borne in mind that the operational firefighter is a volunteer and is carrying out challenging tasks in the event of fire and rescue in traffic and other natural disasters and that this is the cheapest form of assistance. There have also been a number of employers who, out loud or quietly, tend to slow down the employment of such a firefighter, as it is known that there is a possibility that he will often be absent from his job in order to carry out the firefighting tasks. However, we must be aware that the employment of skilled firefighters can also be useful for employers, as with their knowledge and skills, they can sometimes prevent or mitigate large fires in their industrial plants and thus prevent costs that can sometimes be measured at 100,000 euros. In addition, we propose that the State provide funds to provide for operational firefighters and means for preventive health checks of volunteer firefighters. On the other hand, we would like to encourage and reward the volunteer firefighter adequately in carrying out this demanding and extremely beneficial work. We therefore propose that each firefighter be provided with additional health and pension insurance for each day of the public fire service. And of course you have already and we have already asked ourselves about the financial consequences. There would be slightly greater expenditure from the budget to pay additional health insurance for these operational firefighters, but on the other hand, they could save enormously at the expense of this preventive action, especially in the event of natural disasters and fires, where it is true that voluntary firefighters help to reduce material damage, which is sometimes impossible to measure. In my opinion, this law is not self-indulgent and populist, as we listen to the evidence of the coalition, but in my opinion it is the answer to the problems that firefighters face. In my opinion, your claims and your calls by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are more populism to solve the problem systematically and comprehensively. This systemicness and integrity of problem-solving has been promised all the time in several areas where our Group proposes any changes to the rules. I will support this law because I believe that a step forward is towards regulating the status of voluntary firefighting. But I am convinced that every regulation, every law, every law is a living thing, and maybe if the coalition comes with some comprehensive and systematic solution to this area, we will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is valid for everyone in the Chamber, especially the Minister and Mr Bogataj, the Commander of Civil Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I have met him for more than 20 years as a professional and now as the first firefighter in the congregation. I must say, I am pleased that we have opened this debate in the National Assembly. And I don't mind at all that this is the electoral year in which the local elections will take place. The main and important thing is to talk about an important aspect of protection and rescue, such as the field of firefighting. We're going to have to do some of the work in this country. Here I mean when we compare the Slovenian Army, defence, and the area of protection, rescue. On the one hand, we have a professional army, we pay a reserve, and on the other hand, we have volunteers, firefighters, campers, the Red Cross, cavemen and many others, not to mention. We also need to provide a certain proportion of the funds for these. Without voluntary firefighters, we would never have had such a successful area of protection and rescue. This is probably what we all know in this hall. Especially the mayors of the municipalities who are most responsible in the field of their municipality. When there's no need in this area, then it's "holy" mayor. When the problem is in this area, however, it is a little more difficult, and only then do many people realize the importance of having a well-organized area of protection and rescue. Firefighters fire fires, participate in traffic accidents, spill dangerous substances, rescue from water and water. Many times or most of the time, they're the first on the scene of an accident and they're the last to leave. Caricosely said from one of our local community operatives that I come from: we come first, rescue the car crasher, cut him out, eventually clean the road and gloves that the doctor also threw away when he was involved in the rescue. And I believe them. They are general paramedics, decent and come there not to be paid, but they come because they have a sense of solidarity, responsibility, humanitarianism within them. And we need to understand and respect that in this country. Given that I have been following this area for so many years, I have already mentioned that as a professional for some time, I must say that no government, not even the first since Slovenia's independence, has saved this area. I do not consider as negative that this law, which we are considering today, has come into the national constituency procedure. He encouraged the debate. I am also positive about the proposal for a solution from the Minister, and I hope that this will also happen. Not only do we now have or are there likely to be new, many other laws, such as the Fire Protection Act, then the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, the Regulation on Organising, Equipment, etc., Rescue Units, then the rules of the Fire Service and other documents relating financially to this area need to be regulated. And that's not a small bite. Of course, in all this story, we must also take into account the revenue side of the budget. I am well aware of this, but the first steps will have to be taken. We must not forget that we have 1295 voluntary fire companies in Slovenia, 68 of them in the area of companies, 118 fire unions, 17 firefighter regions and 133,065 members, of whom I have been a member for more than 40 years personally. For this large organised force in the field of protection and rescue, we will indeed have to provide resources for education, insurance, medical attention, insurance in the event of injury or death. We will also have to regulate this relationship between the employer and the firefighter. In each case, it will also be necessary to consider providing additional health insurance and pension insurance to the firefighter on the day he performs these tasks. Madam Minister, I am sure that there is no need to be afraid or that the mayors will provide these funds to the municipalities after the primary use of the State. In any event, around 3% of these primary spending resources should be provided by municipalities for the operation of voluntary firefighting companies. I must say that we have provided almost 300 000 euros last year, representing 3.75% of this spending. And I am proud of the firefighters in the congregation, and not only in the congregation, even in the whole country. If assistance is needed in any area, firefighters are always there. And we must appreciate that, dear colleagues and colleagues. That is why we need to make a move in this area in the future. And if this is such a difficult situation, we have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I have no time, I will say, I am not a firefighter, but I am at home with the fire department and I know the problems and issues of firefighters and I agree with the proposals and solutions presented by the Minister, so I hope that we will solve some of these problems this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. Madam Minister, Mr Richtay, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that I am pleased and welcome that there has come a proposal for a bill to supplement the Fire Action Act on the parliamentary bench. I'm afraid he's not getting any support for further consideration today. However, if the government's established practice and coalitions continue, I am sure that in about a month, a month or a half, an initiative will come from your side to amend or supplement the law. And if you will then take into account some of our comments, which have been largely made today, we have taken a step forward in this area of voluntary firefighting. I would like to add that we are in Article 1, because fires and accidents have been increasing in recent years in industrial plants, and it would be good to encourage employers to establish voluntary industrial fire companies and to reduce the required number of employees to establish voluntary industrial fire companies. The case in Maribor, in former Tam and MPT Melje is now in the same location over 300 small companies that do not need fire protection, and fire threats are much greater in these locations. There are also several smaller companies in the area of Boris Kidrič who cannot agree on the costs of the fire brigade, and after 130 years the fire company has been shut down. For security purposes, everyone signs contracts with security companies, including fire safety, such as G7, Protect and so on. In the event of a fire or an accident, firefighters intervene in companies. Even in foreign-owned companies such as Henkel in Maribor, of course, the burden of the local community. With the public fire service, no or very few companies have signed contracts for protection, fire and rescue. Article 8 states: "...institute and ensure the operation of a fire school for the education and training of firefighting personnel." It is necessary to take too much of the influence of the Gasilian Connection of Slovenia. However, the school should become an independent educational and research institution that will monitor the world’s technological knowledge and pass it on to firefighters. The car industry is ahead of us here, and rescue education in case of traffic accidents is lagging behind, as is accidents with dangerous substances. There we also wrote "co-finance protection and rescue tasks which are of wider importance, especially in transport accidents, hazardous substances accidents, rescue on and off the water and rescue in motorway tunnels". I propose that the state finance interventions outside the local municipality. the case, as was the case in the Railways, the fire in Kras, the storms in Ptuj, the fire in Lovrence in the Drava field, the floods in Primorsk and so on. For permission, it is necessary to agree with the local community that the unit can intervene outside the municipality, but now it did not even know where the vehicles and people went, the refunds, the payment of absences from work went from and to the account of the local community. For example, pumps for floods of the voluntary fire company Dvorjane were in railways and in Pomour at the time of floods following the mandate of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue, and the service or repair was paid by the municipality of Duplek. In Article 8, we also wrote "ensures the conditions for the operation of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters". The State should also finance regional fire liaisons, since it is generally difficult for several municipalities to share the costs of connections. However, the municipal fire unions are financed by the congregation for which they are established. The State should co-finance the equipment covered by the State plan: pumps, flood bags, forest fire extinguishing techniques and so on. There's been a lot of talk today. I support further consideration of the proposal of the Firefighters Act, which will improve the status of voluntary firefighters in Slovenia and thus give them respect, affection and thanks for their voluntary, often life-threatening work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Madam Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I come from a local environment where things happened in 2007 when we first learned what a volunteer firefighter meant to us. And it was these floods in the Railways that changed this view of our volunteer firefighter. And then if I sum up when I visited the general assemblies in the congregation, somehow the common denominator was, "but the mayor of the great congregation gives for voluntary firefighting, but certain things are still missing". And this is exactly the status of a volunteer firefighter, I think, and I'm sure there's a law on the table in this proposal. And today's debate saddens me a little bit that it's split into two parts again, unfortunately, at the work of the coalition and the opposition. And it is this positive view of a volunteer firefighter based on volunteerism, on the free time of an individual, that I do not think this is going in this right direction. I'm sure we've got the key word for our experience today, Mayor. This is because we are the ones most responsible for the municipal budgets and also for the funds available for this purpose. Our proposal is to transfer medical checks and insurance to the country's burden. All other investments are still at the burden of the congregations, which we may or may not agree on. When there is a local area, it doesn't matter where in Slovenia, the help is needed, we know that firefighters are not important from where, the first to call, and lately more and more qualified for most of these most dangerous and specific tasks. I also have a proposal on investment acquisition, now that 20% of the tax is being considered, even if they did something in this direction. Additional voluntary insurance, however, is the part that is supposed to be one of the incentives for a voluntary firefighter. And also the word, Madam Minister, that we must resolve this in a number of laws, seems to me very much in place. However, I do not think that the Prime Minister's statement to regulate the status of the firefighter in 2013 is in place, and this certainly does not work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. We want to define more precisely the status of a volunteer firefighter by means of a bill, provide greater motivation for working in firefighting societies, even though we know that they do not have any serious problems with membership. In addition, we would encourage employers to employ firefighters. Some of your colleagues have objected to the law that this problem will be regulated by the law of volunteering. However, at the speed of this government, we do not know if we will ever, or if we will ever, await this law on volunteering, where it is not yet close, so that we keep talking about something being systematically regulated, and we never know when it will be, or if there are certain deadlines, then they are always in breach. We just wanted to solve a certain problem. As we have dealt with a problem so many times before, we do not deal with ten at a time because it is much more difficult to deal with. It has already been mentioned that Slovenians have a firefighting tradition. Those who say that we should prepare things differently, especially some mayors, are also in this National Assembly who know what and how they regulate the fire service in their congregation, perhaps we could find a common language, a common proposal, a joint amendment that would improve the matter if you didn’t think it was written as it should be. The government says in its opinion, when you list everything, why something can't be done, I always miss how things can be arranged, not looking for options, how they don't have to be arranged or how they can't be arranged, but let's leave it. Here on page 4 you say, "In this sense, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already ordered the Government to propose appropriate solutions in the resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters in 2009-2015..." And in this regard, I am interested in what the Government has done or with what results. Of course, I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It is very commendable that we have such a strong government presence at this point. This is not always the case in this term. And there are people who know each other well. It's just for starters and flashes. I would say that this is a law for all: both for active participants, those who help, firefighters specifically in this case, and those who need help. However, I am disturbed by the answer that we always hear in the opposition when we propose a law, perhaps if someone admits that the law is well thought to be prescribed by the current ruling coalition, but is inadequate. That is to say, if it is prescribed by you from the previous term, but it is inadequate, then I am asked why you proposed such a law in the previous term, which is now inadequate. But then you proposed it as very good, and now you're saying that we copied it, but it's inappropriate because we copied it, and we proposed it. There's something not going on here right now. There is always a rejection in the sense that the Government is preparing a new law that will be comprehensive, modern, complex and similar, so this proposal is not good. The fact is that it is time to acknowledge to the firefighters that their work is being evaluated. But I'm sure it'll have to be done gradually. Those of you who think you're going to solve this whole thing in full, percentages, that you're going to cover everything in the marriage that's coming, that's the same thing as if you wanted to jump from the floor to the tenth floor. Dear fellows, this is not going to work! This will have to be settled gradually, down the stairs. If we're going to jump, and we're going to take one step up, then we're going to end up with a complex and comprehensive solution. Now that you say that this government is going to propose a comprehensive and complex law that will solve everything, I already know in advance that this is not possible. Just remember how the Ministry of Defence and the ministers tighten the budget. And I think, I'm sorry she can be pleased if she doesn't have any more cleavage. I hope that this civil work will not be at the expense of it, even, unfortunately, if it goes to any other account. But these are objective facts. That's right, and that's why it's already prejudged the whole thing and it's all going to be solved. It's not possible. We'll be able to get to the tenth floor gradually. We're just suggesting, I don't know, maybe it's already two floors. We'll come to the 10th floor on the floor. The fact is, once everything's off in the field, it's normal to call the fire department. It's perfectly normal, it's like it's daylight. That's because firefighting has rich roots in us. But it is true that this is the commitment of firefighters to be set up at the present time. Sometimes it was enough to give firefighters as much equipment as they could and they were satisfied. But today is a different time, there are different requirements, and these standards need to be upgraded. I'm still saying, gradually we'll come up with some kind of solution that we want. It is just that in Slovenia it is normal when we need help to call 112. This is perfectly normal for us. And I would also say that this marriage is not populism. This is taken from reality. Perhaps it is not the best written, best written, and therefore the legal procedure in Parliament is to supplement it, to complement it, to perfect it, to grind the law, to add it, so that it would not be unusual, even if this law, of course, had been confirmed for further procedure, been further refined and added to what you think is necessary and what is a reality given in this mandate. In addition, issues need to be placed within the framework of climate change. Climate change is here, natural disasters are here, we don't want them, but it is. Unfortunately, we can't decide whether or not the storm is coming. They are here and will therefore need funds, equipment will be needed and the human potential that we have - good - must be preserved voluntarily as long as we can. Since it was mentioned earlier that we would like to support the fire service with this law, I don't think that's true. I thought I would read this law to you because at the beginning it showed that some of you have not read it, but now the last discussions indicate that some of you have read the law and in this sense you are also discussing it, so I will not read it to you, because this law just complements some things. The State already has certain obligations to firefighters and firefighters. We're just adding something here, not to support something. And this is also one of the advantages of Slovenian organisation of firefighters that we did not in the past possess to build as much on professionalism as our neighbouring country from the south or the east, however you wish. And that's when we kept this volunteering. Me and my client say that as long as we can hold this, we have to hold it. This is also recognized by those who have a possible longer fire tradition, and volunteering has already deteriorated there and they are thrilled to see how this works for us. However, we must also go forward and upgrade the system. And once again, only gradually will we be able to come to a final solution. But if we're going to try to save a whole and complex situation with just one law at a time, I'm sure I'm afraid we're not going to make it. But if such a law comes through the government, then you can trust me to personally support it. Only after the experience of working with the Ministry of Defence funds by the Government, I fear that a gradual path will have to be taken. Of course, I support such a law and will vote in favour of continuing the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There is very little possibility that this law would be given a green light for a second reading, thus touching one statement or what we have heard today. They say the young firefighter said, "I serve the people and the people." That's why he joined the fire department. Look, if he has this pattern in companies, in those companies where they don't leave volunteers to activate, he probably won't feel this kind of membership for long. For this reason, I would like to say below, let us pay as much attention as possible to showing the public how important these volunteer firefighters are to the Slovenian state, that we will not lose what we have because of the behaviour of some people, as if they did not need people in the factory who would be qualified for this matter. On the other hand, when we see firefighters going from door to door, there are people who make a lot of contributions to this fire department. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] That everyone will need this help once and for all. [[...]] I could still talk. I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everything, including the minister and her associates. I think we need to address the content that comes into the National Assembly in a way that we can absorb it. If we now have a new piece of the Firearms Act ahead of us, then it is only right that we focus on this subject. Given that we have taken an important step in this area in the previous mandate, let us take a further step, it is right to move forward gradually, as some colleagues have pointed out. In 2005 it was also a pre-election year, and then you also proposed some solutions to the law, you supported these solutions, here I have copies of the votes of the current coalition members, then you were in the opposition, and the amendments you proposed at the time were your amendments that you supported: Mr Gantar, Anderlič, Kontič, Kumer, Potrč, Saiovic. At that time, the solutions we are talking about today were completely acceptable, but somehow there was no support or sufficient support in the coalition at that time, especially because we have already taken a significant step forward with that law. Today, when you accuse us, you condemn us to sum up your solutions, that is to say that we are proposing the solutions that you have proposed in the previous term, and you are saying that this matter is not acceptable, it is not necessary. That's what you're saying. Mr President, I propose that you remind your colleague Kontić, who is the leader of the largest parliamentary group, that he does not disturb the interlocutors. He didn't get in the way. We deserve it, too. At that time there may have been some problems on our part, especially because we have taken an important step, as I said. Now that you have the opportunity to stand by your words with credibility when you no longer have 10 Members, as you did then, but you have almost 30 of them, you are now opposed to this solution, even though you have raised the expenditure side of the budget by a billion and a half euros, given your previous mandate, to the best year of your previous mandate. Even though this leap is so large on the expenditure side of the budget, you are unable to cover your amendments, your claims under the previous mandate. We've been waiting for six months, September 2009, now it's February, it's been half a year longer in your mandate than in ours, and in this period you haven't proposed anything. This is due to the fact that the current coalition does not even implement the solutions it has proposed in the previous term. Then I understand, you had no potential, you had no power. Now you've got it all. You have a budget, you've raised spending by a billion and a half, and you have a voting machine behind you. And don't stand by your words. In fact, we can also be sure of this duality and credibility in this case. It was then reasoned that this should be done. Now that you've got it all, you can't do it anymore. There is also a statement by government representatives when they want to address this problem in a systematic, comprehensive way, but in 2013. So, in the next government. Much is said of what is being done and how it is planned to regulate this area. As in many other areas, do not take advantage of your opportunity and potential in this area. You convicted us of being a populism law. What was he like in 2005? Wasn't he populist back then? At the time, the solutions weren't populist? They were real, they were professional, they were substantive. Now that the roles have changed, you're talking about populism. Every law we have proposed in this mandate has this characteristic: populist. I would like to remind you that, in this mandate, you have found a lot of strength to solve, with various sectoral laws, the problems of some who have been erased, the problems of some people, and somehow you are not able to actually solve those problems that are possible and resolutionable in this mandate and concern people who care and protect and save our assets when necessary. It is not a problem to find €700,000 for a water cannon at the Ministry of the Interior. However, it is difficult to provide other things in this area. It will obviously be necessary to wait primarily for the amendment of the Government Act, where certain powers will be transferred again, water cannon equipment is already part of the firefighting equipment you need to intervene in certain areas, and now we are just waiting for you to come up with a proposal to purchase water pistols and similar matters in order to maintain an appropriate situation in some areas preventively. It is obvious that in some areas there is no problem of going into superstandard solutions, of purchasing equipment that we do not need, because the water cannon at the Ministry of the Interior does not put out fires or, perhaps, depending on how you define yourself. Where, in fact, we need certain solutions, especially in the areas of security, insurance and the like, this is not actually possible. I propose that you seriously consider this proposal before voting. Take seriously the opportunity to upgrade the vote you carried out in 2005, which I think was September 20th, today by voting on this law as suitable for further consideration and thus allow us to come up with partial solutions. This time it's our turn to firemen. When you bring in the next law on volunteer work, we will save other services when you give, say, a law on what third activity, we will save that, etc. No problem. But waiting for something to happen to us to come up with a systemic solution will probably be too long. In view of how excited you were in your previous mandate for these solutions, I see that there is actually no problem. The debaters of your kind have also said today that the solution we are proposing is not unprofessional. On the contrary, said young Member Levanič, she is an expert, but what is then an obstacle to the fact that the vote for or words for this law cannot be obtained. If it's not a professional issue, then the problem is with the proposaler. This is said, in what, after one and a half years of waiting for this mandate, something in this area will happen, proposes the solutions that you have said and indicated and perhaps even proposed in the previous mandate. And we voted for them. It is likely that the decision on whether to support or not such a proposal should not be too difficult. And it was also said in the debate that, despite the fact that this is a professional solution, that it is an expert proposal, one of the discussers on your side said that we are not helping the firefighters with these proposals. By allowing firefighters to be paid by the State to pay them additional health insurance, we harm the firefighters. If we do not help them with these proposals, then we harm them. I doubt that's true. Above all, it would be good to listen to what the debaters say, and especially to understand what you say. This is a matter of professional solutions; it is a matter of upgrading solutions that improve the situation in this area; it is a matter that has been discussed for years, not just this year and not just now, but for years. In fact, I think that, in all these expenditure upgrades that you have made in this mandate, it is possible to get a few million euros to cover these urgent issues in the field of firefighting. I don't think that this should be a complete dilemma, absolutely no problem. Not because of populism. This is because, at this time, in these circumstances, at this stage of the development of society is urgently and urgently necessary. We all know how much volunteer fire can help and how much it actually helps, not only how much it can, but how much it actually helps. There is no situation, almost no case when we are talking about elementary and other accidents, when voluntary firefighters and other firefighters are not involved. There's almost no case in local communities. And it is quite interesting that it is extremely difficult to take this step in order to enable them to also in this area a standard that is more or less for all others, in other areas, not in voluntary but also in other areas, in fact self-evident. I expect the Ministry of Defence to change its position on this bill. I think it would be the most normal thing to change it, because we probably all work in the same interest, we all work with the same budget, we all know how to read numbers, we all know what's going on in other areas. And for a few people like, say, deleted, we now have a third marriage, these are people who don't even live in Slovenia, there is no problem in preparing a special law, special solutions and dealing with all the huge financial consequences, and here for their people who save and protect property, we cannot find a few million euros to ensure that. This is not going to be a tenth of that, or much less than a tenth of what is to be erased. There won't be a tenth of that, and yet there goes a coalition with perfect euphoria to the full, dead cold over the voting process. We have a law that has a lot of amendments. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] Probably not prepared in sufficient quality, but we probably have a very simple law here that solves domestic problems and there is no minimum support in the coalition. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. He wants the word "government"? Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Thank you for the kind of warnings that are important for the further work of the Government. We are aware that there is something from history. And if history is a teacher of wisdom, then I hope that, as in history, we will be able to solve the area of protection against natural and other disasters, we will also be given to make things better in the coming months and years. If indeed in 2005 there was some proposal to amend the Firearms Act and it was rejected, and then in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, those things that were proposed at the time were already somehow included and have substantially changed the status of voluntary firefighters, as regards their basic status and their relationship with employers, then I hope that we will also be able to regulate in the future the status or relationship of operational rescuers with their employers and also the status of operational rescuers for the better. Our aim is to prepare a new law on protection against natural and other disasters before the summer, in which we would like to say that the area needs to be resolved gradually, with small steps, that it cannot be saved at once in all laws and that when laws such as the Income Act, the Property Tax Act, the Voluntary Act, we will always have our own area somehow regulated at that time. But what we can do as the Ministry of Defence and what we can propose, expecting coordination within the various departments, is to take care of all the paramedics in our umbrella law. We do not want to discriminate between different types of paramedics, but we want to tell everyone that they mean a lot to us and we want to tell the firefighters that there are forty thousand of those we are fighting for among these operatives we are talking about. In this way, we will first arrange for employers with operational firefighters and rescue workers in general to receive the share of the profits they lose because their operational paramedics are going to intervene and are reimbursed. For the time being, the relevant law provides for reimbursement of the costs arising from the salary. What we want to do is get, as it were, a share of the lost profits. Secondly, in the case of the paramedics' injuries, we know that there is a question of who pays the hospital's absence at a time when the paramedic is injured at the intervention. Our proposal will go in the direction that the hospital's refund will be paid by the one who called the paramedics. If this is the municipality, then the refund is on the part of the municipality, if it is a State or Government, then the refund is on the part of the Government. As far as supplementary voluntary insurance is concerned, I have to say the same thing that I did before. It is 11 million euro that we would need for a new one. We are aware that we do not have this money in the budget for the two years ahead. We hope that we may be able to resolve this with 2012 and beyond. And in the end, let me say, we are aware that the area needs to be regulated in its entirety, but this does not mean that it is in one law alone. It will be necessary to change a number of laws and to supplement them, but this is also actually the magic of regulating the area. We will never be satisfied, nor will our rescuers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] & Load [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Does he want another word from the motioner? Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Let me point out once again that the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the end of its previous term in the preparation of a new programme of the electoral programme and also the party's programme, wanted to precisely regulate the status of voluntary firefighting and has also written this down in its programmes. That we were serious at the time, we prepared this proposal for a law that, to a large extent, tried to implement what was written at the time. Unfortunately, in a coalition of listening to this support, we do not detect what we regret in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I believe in tens of thousands of voluntary firefighters. I am pleased, and again in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reiterate that this has been recognised as one of the priorities of the Minister, who also lists here some suitable hands where there will be attempts through different laws to seek similar goals or similar solutions. Regardless of whether it was good will, it would have no effect, for the law would have entered into force. 1. 2012, this means two years from now, if it were really good will in the coalition, everything the Government wants to prepare could be prepared, and even those new laws could easily record that this law no longer exists. When the Minister said that the resources in the 2010-2011 budget for the additional health insurance provided by the operational firefighters do not have to be provided. We were aware of that too, so we gave the 2012 anniversary to make 1. 1. The law entered into force in 2012. Until then, I believe that funds should be found, because, with their work, voluntary firefighters will save society, the country hundreds of millions of euros, not the cost of 11 million euros, which is also a cost, but it must not be too much for the country. This would motivate people, make them even more self-sacrificeful and even more successful. If you are in the government, this is not in your department, Madam Minister, and you are not able to report on some loss, but that at the Ministry of the Interior there are luxury spaces that cost millions and a half a year to ensure to the anti-corruption commission that the luxury spaces of €500,000 per year are provided, I think this is an irrational spending of money and it would be much, much more useful for the Government to you [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] commits these funds to channel them through a subsidy of fire-fighting equipment or a subsidy from fire-fighting companies and would thereby do much more for this society and our firefighters. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet run out, we have about 20 minutes to go. I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. I see reports. Please sign up for the debate. Five panellists have been reported. Three and a half minutes each debater has one and a half minutes. Here you go. The first is Mr Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that in this debate we have only come a little further to clarify what is positive, what is not positive. However, I would also like to say to some of the obvious about what happened in the previous term and what did not happen, that you must be aware that Minister Erjavec was prepared, and that he would have been willing to do much more, but he did not have the impression at the base of his client at the time. You know that both MPs did not vote with that government, so he was unable to rely on his party's base and was a weak Minister of Defence. Otherwise, the current ministers, who do not have support within the coalition, often go against it. These realities need to be accounted for. I must say that it has been possible to agree with Minister Erjavac that he has been ready to move in favour of some general positive approaches. So, for example, for a Makolo gym in a demographicly threatened area from educational resources, we redistributed some of the resources to a really positive project on which they started building a gym there because those children did not have a gym. If we go further with this law to be finalized, I am not saying that this is something similar to a bun in baking, that it is such and nothing different, that it is to be transformed, to go forward, to do something for firefighters, then it is possible to compromise within this on the sum of money and compromise solutions, on these insurance and all that, because this cost of 11 million is something else, of course, a cost. Given what firefighters save and rescue, it is a small cost, but if we reduce it, it will come to that sum, for example, when Mrs Orazem said that it was 6 million for Ultra. If there's money for a coalition of 6 million pees, why don't we find it for firefighters if it's a pee-pee million. I think that firefighters, their actions, should be treated in such a way as to ensure that that money is given priority and that it actually respects legality in some other areas where these peevey 6 million - according to her peeing - have escaped from some means. This is how we move forward, and it seems to me that some of the solutions will also be approached through today's debate. Firefighters, as stated in the resolution, need to be regulated. If, as I say, it will be a good will, we can regulate it in the following aspects of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Dear Vice President! I am convinced that the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is a law that seeks to improve the situation in this area. There have been many such and other untruths that have been said today by the coalition and some that have disturbed me, including by the minister himself. First, it was said that this law was a copy of some of the past proposed solutions by the SD. It was then said, inter alia, that this law is still part of those pre-election activities of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Among other things, it was said that this law would result in the end of volunteering. It was also said that this law only selects certain groups to include the resolution of local communities. I think that this is absurd, as we have heard here today, and dear colleagues and colleagues, all of you who are still here from the coalition, would have to imagine, before you said such statements here in the National Assembly, for the reasons that I said in the introductions. This law is certainly a law that seeks to improve the situation in the area of voluntary firefighting. This law also has extremely clearly stated objectives which I will stress once again: that the State provides funds for the provision of operational firefighters insurance, provides funds for preventive health checks of operational firefighters, the State provides voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance, the State provides operational volunteer firefighters with additional pension insurance and tax relief for those who employ such firefighters for each day of the public fire service operation. I think these are solutions that are still important for voluntary firefighting. There is certainly no way inside of these solutions to be seen that they would try to destroy volunteerism by means of this law, as has been said here today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am sure, once again, that this law is absolutely well-intentioned, written on the skin of voluntary firefighters and solves this issue in such a way as to improve their status. At the same time, I am convinced that all colleagues and colleagues here in the National Assembly are hampered by the fact that this law is intended for those who are the first to come to the defense and help with natural disasters and to solve very complex and problematic situations where they also expose their lives. And if you were aware of that, of course, at least what you would expect of everyone who is in the hall to establish this law. There can be no question of those few million, but it is important that we provide basic quality conditions for voluntary firefighters in carrying out their still important human tasks. I can say that I have one very important experience myself. In the previous year, in the environment from which I come, the Kungota municipalities, there were three floods that were very problematic, and I was one of those who helped firefighters lay sand bags, etc., and I saw how important these voluntary firefighters in our company are, therefore, I think it is very important that we all step together and find the right solution to improve their voluntary firefighting status. This allows for the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! If I summarize today's debate, I can find that in fact we all want something like this, but somehow we cannot figure out how and in what way and in which way the law would be optimal, in order to effectively comprehensively and comprehensively solve the problem of rewarding and regulating all other cases involving voluntary rescuers, including, of course, firefighters. We must not forget, however, that these voluntary paramedics include mountain rescuers, divers and lobsters, and all others who do this work voluntarily or otherwise and do very useful and important work for society, the country and Slovenia in general. Once again, I will repeat the words of the young firefighter, the lifeguard who said he was serving his people and people, and he is proud to do so. If, in fact, I were to repeat the exercise because the works of the master are being practiced, those who have proposed amendments and amendments to the law have come up with the idea of actually solving these matters comprehensively, they would open paragraph 11a. Article 11a actually opens up all the dilemmas that have been raised in this debate today. A comprehensive solution to the problem involves a comprehensive implementation of the objectives strategy and, last but not least, control. How and how the funds are used, because we have identified and I have also stated in the previous debate how much of these funds allocated for equipment are available for all other matters allowing this activity to be carried out, would find that there is actually a minimum percentage, zero whole and a few percent, 00 per cent for the compensation for these paramedics. If we really want to work systematically, professionally, comprehensively and if we are going to cover a wide spectrum, we will actually have to go to the law on volunteering and not just the law on income for legal persons, the law on income, the law on real estate, the law on insurance, the law on the financing of municipalities, as we have stated, because a number of these laws touch on this work in one way, but we will actually have to do things systematically. Systematic means to set things straight. Also, the way these paramedics are educated, because I think that lifeguard education is very important and innovation with all these equipment issues. Also buying this equipment. Are we buying optimal equipment, the most modern or any equipment? There's a lot of dilemmas that open up. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and to the coworkers. Earlier, it was said that the Minister had no support for the coalition. It certainly has all the support, all the trust and concrete action we will now attach to this reflection. I am glad that our firefighters and firefighters have the support of this National Assembly of Slovenk and the Slovenians. I must say, however, that firefighters and firefighters are best served by policies that deal least with them and provide adequate material conditions, and they will take care of the rest on their own. What does that look like in practice? On Saturday, I attended the general assembly of our central unit, where the "amateurs" themselves are in narration, and the export time for intervention is some 3 minutes, 52 interventions a year, some 10 of them, over 4,000 voluntary working hours, with fund-raising and money-gathering actions, raised more than 10,000 euros. Such firefighters and firefighters, and in the municipality we have 9 companies, including the municipal council, the municipality and the mayor help. Money is never, and it's never a question. However, such discussions, which are important, necessary and useful, may be necessary in order to resolve some dilemmas. The law you proposed should only enter into force in 2012. I am confident that by that time, we will have better, more comprehensive, upgraded solutions, which will include mountain rescuers, divers, cave rescuers and perhaps other rescuers who are also involved in the rescue process, with the help of this government and this year's ministers. The problem of employers has opened up. Of course, employers pressure many times, but they forget that when our volunteers fire them, they do so for free. If they have an employed firefighter, in 10, 15 seconds he will capture the first fire extinguisher and professionally and act with knowledge as necessary. When employers speak, think about it. Dilemma: professional and voluntary firefighters, one or the other. I guarantee both. In the case of mass natural disasters, professional firefighters are not enough, although they have the best technique. When the last storm took place in Gorenjska, we had two professional units, but we needed firemen in hundreds of places and volunteers are indispensable. Where can we help them? Fire trucks and equipment are being auctioned off incredibly, including VAT is appropriate, there is one aid field, another is that when money is being collected at various equipment events, for vehicles, then contributions such as SAZAS are certainly unnecessary and it is possible that SAZAS is in good will to cancel this donation when it comes to events organised by such paramedics and similar organisations. However, I am pleased to say that Slovenian firefighters and firefighters have the support of the Government and the entire Parliament, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] left as the right-hand side, and that we will all be united in a law that is foretold and prepared by the Ministry, which will be complete, with joy and unanimity. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers! Today, when we hear four hours about what would be good, what wouldn't change, and when we solve the same problems that were in 2005, I didn't hear from the proponents' mouth why they rejected these proposals in 2005. Mr Pojbic must be told that Article 2 was equally rejected on the Committee, so that it was not possible for him to come to the debate at the National Assembly. Article 1 was not only substantively the same but identical by word of mouth, it was rejected. And all those who spoke today about how important it was and how important it was to accept it then refused: Tanko and Grims and Grill's proponent and all those who sat in the previous term in the National Assembly then rejected these proposals, and today they did not say what was better or more urgent to accept it. And it really is something else that we have changed some things or changed at that time. The Minister in the previous government, Mr Erjavec, has followed the Law on the Protection against Natural Disasters from his field and has greatly changed and improved the status of both voluntary firefighters and all rescue workers operating in the rescue system, whether or not this has been recorded in the law. If it were written down, I can even estimate that it would not be as well solved as it is now. Why don't we support our 2005 proposals today?Oh, my God! Because we know and trust and support this coalition government, and also that we can, not only after 2012, but by 2012, change these things, whether they are written in this law or not. Just because it's written in the law doesn't change anything. No article gives either a cent or a euro for someone to do something or to do something. It's all in money and in thought. I believe and believe that this proposal is dishonest, but this is because you associate this proposal with the deleted, as Mr Grims and Mr Tanko said, that it is due to compensation and that we do not hope now and that it is comparable and so on. He has nothing to do with it. 12 or 20 million for this country at this point, if this needs to be resolved, must not be a problem, but must be systemic and must be known where and how. Like it won't be a problem if someone's entitled to compensation has to be paid. The second is when we associate this with the debt of a billion and a half this year or a deficit or whatever. However, you did not say anything about the debt, the total indebtedness of this country in 2004 and 2008, when it was in debt for 24 billion, i.e. 6 billion a year. Now we're talking about a billion total debt. Nothing about that. And within that, we could look for such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also the meeting of the National Assembly. We will continue the vote at 6.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on the necessary majority for the ratification of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: The proposal for a law on the necessary majority to ratify the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not suitable for further consideration. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? I'm going to make an application, so you don't come forward later. Here's who wants to sign up. Mr Branko Grimes on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Your Honor! Certainly, if we carefully read the Slovenian Constitution, there are many arguments that the 2/3 majority is reasonable, necessary, legally justified and stems from the text of the Slovenian Constitution itself. That is why the law that has been tabled is, in fact, just a summary of the purpose of those who have formed the Slovenian Constitution, because I would remind you that when we decide on this agreement, in fact, we do not just decide on our borders, even at this moment on the borders of the European Union as a whole. Many arguments for the two-thirds majority have also been presented by some of the most prominent constitutional experts, including the former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Čebul, who have also written extensively in professional journals. You've all received these arguments, you can accept them, you can't. In the SDS Group, however, we are convinced that there are many more reasons for it than there are any legitimate concerns. However, as far as these concerns are concerned, it is extremely interesting that a person who, while preparing an arbitration agreement such as it is, disputed for Slovenia is poor, a special contract with the Ministry, and was directly engaged for payment, then for payment publishes again an article in which the Constitutional Court further qualifies, if anything is said about the two-thirds majority, in which case he has a bad fig in his pocket. This is interesting from this point of view, since we have heard here many times in the National Assembly, when we talk about the judicial judgments that have been published, it is the pressure on the Constitutional Court. Of course, it's not pressure. This is the basis of democracy that an act that has been completed can also be expressed. But if you're talking about the matter that's under way, and you're pre-qualified, what's the outcome, and that's the pressure, ladies and gentlemen. This is obvious and clear pressure for everyone. Therefore, the question arises why so much nervousness, why it does not agree to a two-thirds majority, which is justified, which is meaningful and which would lead to the search for consensus, just as they sought consensus in the time of our government and as our neighbours seek it, and are therefore much more successful in their efforts. Unfortunately, however, you have subordinated foreign policy to internal political interests, and you obviously want to take it all to the end. But you work to the detriment of the country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Radovan Žerjav will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Arbitration Agreement in its Article 3 gives the arbitrators the power to determine the course of the border on land and to establish the boundary at sea. The Arbitration Agreement is an international treaty on the basis of which the decision of the arbitral tribunal will be adopted, complementing the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter by establishing a maritime boundary. The border at sea has never been established in the history of Slovenia and otherwise has not been established. This determination will therefore complement the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter. In this case, there is no doubt that the exercise of the work of sovereign rights is transferred to an entity outside our national jurisdiction. Thus, in this point, the Arbitration Agreement intervenes in the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in the second section, as I said, of the Basic Constitutional Charter. All these are strong arguments that the ratification of the arbitration agreement should take place by a two-thirds majority already under the existing provision of Article 3A of the Constitution. Nevertheless, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that, due to the importance of this issue, Members should consciously decide that we are deciding on such an important issue by a two-thirds majority, so we will vote against this decision, which is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President! I will personally vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Seven. 12. In 1990, the congregation gained so much wisdom in the country that it passed a law on plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, the congregation appointed Members and Members of Parliament, or delegates, to a high, extremely high standard. Article 3 of this Act states that the decision to make the Republic of Slovenia an independent and independent State has been taken if it has been pronounced by the majority of all the voting beneficiaries. Most of all voting beneficiaries mean 50% plus 1 of all those who were on the full-year referendum day. So the majority of all voting beneficiaries. Article 4 stated that the Republic of Slovenia would take over the exercise of sovereign rights. Today, colleagues and colleagues, when adopting this law, where the Slovenian People's Party requires a two-thirds majority of MEPs and Members, because, as long as the arbitration agreement is adopted, we are definitely cancelling some of the sovereign rights exercised by the Republic of Slovenia today. The fact is, we gave them up when we allowed us to usurp and more than 15 unilateral decisions to the Republic of Croatia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is therefore unfair to citizens and citizens, so I will oppose such a decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will vote against the decision to destroy the two-thirds majority in this House. I know this proposal will fall. I am also not surprised that this proposal will fall because the coalition has decided strongly to hand over Slovenia to Croatia, which is also evidenced by the new candidate for Environment and Space Minister, Mr Žarnic, who is a Croatian citizen. I think it appears to be Mr. Pahor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	Mr. Jelinčič, please stay with the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	asked Mrs Kosorje and in accordance with this agreement with Mrs Kosorje, the coalition will certainly take the view that the two-thirds majority is not necessary. [[....]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. I give the opinion: The proposal for a law on the necessary majority to ratify the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 in attendance, 47 Members and Members voted against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. Thus, the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not suitable for further consideration. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the delegation? Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There are 44 regional courts in Slovenia. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts would obtain another District Court, 45th, which is at Ravna in Koroška. Koroška today has one district court and one district court, both at Ravna in Koroška, I apologize, in Slovenj Gradc. I wish at least one of these would be at the Ravna in Koroška. The Mežiška Valley and the administrative unit Ravne na Koroškem is the largest administrative unit in the Koroška region, of course much larger than Slovenj Gradc, where all the judiciary is concentrated. Until recently we had two notaries in Koroška, both of them were in Slovenj Gradc, thank God that during the government Janez Janša the Notary network was expanded and one notary was later also in Ravna and one notary in Radljah ob Drava. And it is right to think about decentralisation also in the field of justice, and not only about decentralisation on the route Ljubljana - the rest of Slovenia, but also within individual regions. The District Court in Ravna, if you confirm and vote in favour of this decision today, there would be six judges. There would still be 9 or 10 of them left at the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. See, there are a lot of courts in Slovenia that are smaller than the potential court in Ravna, Koroška. The Sovnica has 4 judges, Lithuania has 3 judges, Trebnje employs 4 judges, Črnomelj 6 judges, Tolmin employs 3 judges, Ljutomer employs 5 judges and could also list. There'd be at least six judges on the Ravna. In the debate, the Secretary of State said that these courts, which I have just mentioned, did not indicate that we could not abolish them. On the other hand, he says we can't set up new courts. And for the District Court in Ravna, there are also rooms, so that the obvious, that the matter would get irritated in this way, is really superfluous. It is true, however, that these premises have been empty for five, six years and that the country has lost at least EUR 300,000 in these empty spaces at this time. With this court in Ravna, Koroška, judicial protection would be brought closer to Korosci, it would definitely reduce backlogs and, above all, evenly and equally redistribute courts [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We turn to a vote on the decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Firearms Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on additions to the Firearms Act is suitable for further consideration. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 68 Members and Members voted against 6. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against six.]] Thus, the law has been adopted and we are thus also concluding this item on the agenda. We're moving on to the 31st item of the agenda. This is the continuation of the 31st item by addressing the motion for a resolution on the national proposal for the development of civil aviation of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. 76 Members and Members are present. 73 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act is suitable for further consideration. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? I'm giving you time to report. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Daniel Krivec will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act in the parliamentary group. Under the current law, the possibility of implementing urban transport to a very limited extent, only within one municipality, but only in exceptional cases, with discretion and agreement of the Directorate. Such a practice-based regime hampers the development of public passenger transport and unnecessarily restricts it. The practice so far has shown that in the existing system of certain municipalities, this topic is also shared. With the proposal we are making in the procedure, we are in some way legalising this situation, which has actually been put into practice. Our marriage is very clear in two articles and solves this problem. In fact, Article 1 only extends the possibility of applying this line transport so that more municipalities can use it and not just one municipality. Thus, we exclude the discretion written in this law, and this goes also in the context of reducing bureaucratic barriers in this area. However, the second Article also clearly defines the conditions for the organisation and manner in which line transport is carried out in urban transport, as prescribed by the Minister responsible for transport, by means of a specific regulation. In this respect, it is considered that the Regulation for the whole country should lay down uniform criteria and criteria, in particular in terms of ensuring accessibility to urban transport and the identification of migration areas. This means that each tenderer does not negotiate with each municipality individually, but that the rules are clear, not as they are now, in practice, the principle that individual municipalities decide or do not decide to cooperate with neighbouring municipalities, that certain lines are introduced on the principle of not the best service for citizens, for line users, but on the principle of agreement between the directorate, the mayor and the ministry representatives. In summary, our law actually legalises the situation that is already taking place in our system and in some way allows individual municipalities to link themselves in a corrective manner in improving public line traffic, not to perform an external article as an arbitrator in this case, in this case a director or a minister, and this is clearly defined in the law. This gives an opportunity for individual municipalities to agree among themselves on how to improve the service for their citizens. I therefore propose that you also support the proposal of this law, which in no way prejudges anything and leaves open opportunities for all to define in agreement the best solution for public line transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Krivec. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of the 15th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the draft law on the construction of priority sections of railway lines in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of railways in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Mr. Marinic, please. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess that it is necessary, when we talk about modes of transport, to give a priority to certain sections of the track in the Republic of Slovenia concerning rail transport. With the content of this Law on Priority Railway Construction in the Republic of Slovenia, we have defined deadlines for their completion, method of obtaining documentation and sources of funding. It is mainly those sections of the railway line that are on the so-called fifth or tenth corridor. In view of the fact that the coalition partners in their coalition agreement have also committed themselves to particular attention in the handling of rail transport, they also stated that within one year they should take care to restore 50 km of railway lines, the fact that some of the content of the laws which would provide for this would already be adopted in the National Assembly is a fact. We are therefore of the opinion that in the next debate, if you believe that it is necessary to amend or amend these 12 articles of the bill, you could turn on the green light for further consideration and thus help to make a real step forward when we talk about railways and rail transport, because railways are technologically lagging behind. If we do not have sufficient infrastructure, i.e. railway lines and tracks, then we do not expect to be able to negotiate and discuss equally for access to public rail infrastructure by all those Member States, the EU that wish to do so. There is nothing to help us if we have modern locomotives, which were necessary and which the railways had to obtain with the consent and the State’s guarantee, but there is nothing to help us if these locomotives today can only drive on certain stretches of traffic. We are confident that, with the addition of this proposal for a law on priority railway construction in the Republic of Slovenia, we would take a step forward, so we propose that you vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Mr Marinič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. Also in the field of regulating certain important sections, when we talk about roads in the Republic of Slovenia, we have felt in the Slovenian Democratic Party that, given the devastating situation of certain state roads, sections should be moved forward and some sections proposed in Article 2 should be dealt with as a priority. This is a series of systemic solutions that would have been preceded by tragedies on some road sections, but priority needs to be given. It seems to us that when we find the causes of serious traffic accidents on Slovenian roads, we forget that for many reasons there is a bad road. Whether it's inappropriate curves or other elements on the road itself, so at least some road sections should be cut off with investment, because when we do [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	I'm asking you for a little hearing in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	We regret that even the right response to the content of this proposal, when we are talking about priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, even in the treatment, on Friday, when we discussed it, was not the right response, although we have estimated that the content of this proposal of the law is not so bad that it does not deserve at least some thorough treatment. However, in the course of the examination, it might be appropriate to confirm the proposal of this law at a price if it had to be added to certain substantive points or individual articles. We suggest that you support the proposal and that we may also help avoid any accidents on Slovenian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm giving you time to sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	Politics should always be based on values. And surely development and security are the values that should be crucial when we decide what are the priority sections of Slovenian roads. Yesterday we were with the SDS Group in Gorenjska. Not a single meeting with the mayors alone has it been highlighted how vital it is for the further development of the border with Austria and Koroška, with our minority in Koroška, which is also of strategic importance, for the development of tourism in Jezerska, for the development of tourism in Predvor, Churches, how important it is to complete the construction of the road between Kranje and the border crossing of Jezersko, in particular the section of Hotemaže-Britof, which you suspended in the budgets for several years. And on the other hand, when we talked about development, there was no interlocutor, regardless of political colour, in any municipality, who would not stress how important it is to complete the project of road connection between the highway and the airport of Dr Jožet Pučnik, including all the circles, for safety, flow and that the road is moved so that further economic development of the project, which is also a government act, is possible in all the acts of the State of Slovenia, is defined as a strategically important act. And yet, when we deal with this law, we face ridicule, rejection, but it is a fundamental issue: the question of development and the question of security. And remember, by building an infrastructure that enables faster economic development [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , profited by the state, profited by all of us. [[...]] Businesses with created money then return money to the budget through taxes, which ensures the quality of life of all citizens and countries [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Paul Gantar? [[No, no, ……]] I'm re-applying for explanations of vote, and I'm asking everyone who's going to sign up to do it without doing it in a few circles! Please report. Mr. Jože Tanko in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law not only because it brings in an additional 8 other sections as a priority section of Unec - Žlebič and Kočevje - Novo mesto and Kočevje - Črnommelje, but also because it brings with it 8 other sections, namely: Kranjska Gora - Bovec with the tunnel Vršič, second tube of the highway tunnel Karavanka, then the link between Kranj - Jezersko - the border with Austria, Jožet Pučnik airport and the connection to Kranj-East, then the eastern and western suburbs of New Town, then the very important link between Čatež and Slovenska Bistrica via the Observer, then the section Ljubljana-Litija-Zidani bridge, connecting to the third developmental axis, thus solving the problem of Savlja and also the motorway A1 through Kamnik, Gorenje Gra, Mozir and connecting to the third development axis. These are priority sections that would help to speed up the development of these areas, which are among the more difficult-acting areas, among the demographically threatened areas. This would significantly improve accessibility and reduce travel time. This would also allow for fundamental conditions for the development of economic activity and, in some cases, tourism. I am sure that all those who have supported this law would also give an appropriate basis for us to come to a more consistent development of the Republic of Slovenia. It's some kind of systemic approach. Many mayors sign various petitions and proposals to resolve matters in a partial manner, but I suggest that we do this systematically, not like Separat Bela Krajina or Separat Pomurje and so on. In short, he deserves support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I conclude my explanation of vote. We move to a vote on the decision: The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S ON A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE STATUS OF THE INTERNATIONAL RENEWAL ENERGY AGENCY (IRENA). The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. [[Mr. Tanko, please, if we are disciplined, the session will be over soon. But don't talk during the session.]] There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on the amendment of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on scientific and technical cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly, and the draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. This is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Centre for the Promotion of Enterprises on the amendment of the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Centre for Enterprise in the Social Property in the Regions, submitted by the Government in the course of its consideration of the Council. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - This is for the defence proposal of the Law on the Ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the strategic impact assessment of the environmental impact on the environment of the Convention on the transboundary impact assessment. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 71 present is a Member and Members, 70 voted against by no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Protocol Ratification of Release Registers and Transfers Act The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 71 present is a Member and Members, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 38. PERFORMANCE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE ADJUSTMENT Tax. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the following decision: The text of the Value Added Tax Act is officially revised. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that Act and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 39. It's a day's work, man-loving stuff. Under this item, the National Assembly will first consider the proposal for a decision appointing a President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and then take note of the resignation of the member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board. We turn first to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kontic will not present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The NEK decommissioning fund is a special fund. This is a fund set up by Parliament, and this is not a classic fund, where it is actually the founder of the Government and where all scissors and canvas are in the hands of the Government. Why? Because it's a special fund that's supposed to raise money for decommissioning a nuke. This decommissioning will require enormous resources. That this fund is financially neutral in some way and that the government cannot cut down on its money, it was established by a special law. Members have a very important role to play in policy-making and, last but not least, in the bodies of this Fund. The Fund shall have an Administrative Board and a Supervisory Board and shall appoint key representatives of the National Assembly and not the Government to both bodies. This is very important and this is the specificity of this fund to the visa of all other funds so that no government would ever divert money from this fund and turn this money into other purposes. This government has already expressed its ambition and desire for this money. In its 2010 and 2011 strategic adjustments, she announced that the money from this fund could also be earmarked for, I don't know, the energy efficiency of buildings and similar ideas were overtaken by ministers of this government. The National Assembly has always played a relatively important role, and it also deals with reports, so any intervention by the Government into this fund is actually an intervention by the Government within Parliament. This government has also done so several times, even in this case it wants to amend the statute of this fund, by which the Director would no longer be proposed by the Management Board of the Government for appointment, but would be proposed by the Director of the Directorate at the Ministry of the Economy. Therefore, more than obvious ambition, especially for the parties of Really, to even catch up on this, today about 140 to 150 million heavy funds, therefore wants governance, wants to be closer to this money and also wants an important role in the functions of this fund. The Fund's function will not only be to manage this money, but also to build a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste, as the Government confirmed the location in Krske last year. This is an important institution, financially strong, and it is no wonder that politics cannot resist it, especially the ruling one. Before and after the elections, we listened to stories about Slovenia, which could be better managed, about a new paradigm, about a new human rights policy, about a more equitable time frame for human resources and so on. And look what happened when we call or appoint a supervisory committee today. Of the 10 representatives on the Supervisory Committee, 9 members and one president, 7 are members of the coalition and 3 are members of the opposition. This does not in any way reflect the weight and relationship of political forces and forces. And coalition representatives smile today because they're going to say, "Yes, you did, because it's been like this in the past." But you have promised a new human resources policy, a new paradigm - Slovenia can lead better, but you can't, in fact, from some old patterns that are also your shackles and shackles in all of this. More. Look at the absurdities: of the ten representatives of Parliament on this Supervisory Committee, three of them are, with the President, from the largest coalition party, one of the biggest opposition parties, although you know that they are roughly the same by political power. So much for your human resources paradigm. And it would be wise to leave, for example, if you want to behave differently than you have done so far, control over this fund to the opposition and that a coalition would sit on the board of directors as it was. However, you can not resist temptations and do not do anything else to make it possible from past bad practices to actually implement this new human resources paradigm and sentence so that Slovenia can lead better. I think it is, but you're not demonstrating it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, who will explain the position on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be balanced and, above all, we will support an expertly based proposal. Discussions such as these show that the coalition is aware of the weight and importance of the supervisors in this context and that it is primarily the functions where experts must be in places, not that the fund, as in the past, was clearly the target and greed of politics. More important than who's in this fund, what kind of education he has, what kind of expertise. At the parliamentary club, we are pleased that representatives of all parliamentary parties are represented, but we are even more proud of the fact that this fund was established during the time of the governments we led in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that we have laid the right foundations, the right content that money must be spent years before recovery and closure is made for the rehabilitation of environmental investments and projects. And if it were not for this long-term wise decision then today, too, part of Slovenian politics would not go after membership or city in this supervisory fund. But it is certainly a fund that has been able to operate and manage even better than it is in these years, especially in the last two, when the recession and the crisis is. That's what this is all about. We wish all supervisors a happy, successful professional work and, above all, good decisions and the best management of trust funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this, as has already been said twice today, an expertly sound proposal. It's not about any power within this supervisory committee. Both the opposition and the position have proposed, according to my credible candidates, which we will elect today on this supervisory committee. And both the position and the opposition will be able to perform, if they want, the role of control over these supervisors. It is true, however, that we will break one of the previous practices that has been in place within this Fund, namely that the former Minister of Economic Affairs had a direct red line with the management of this Fund, which was finally confirmed in one of the discussions. I believe that the current economic minister with such a team and in this way, once structured, will no longer have this red line, and that the fund will be able to function on its own, without the influence of the Government and the best former ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal. First of all, it's not because all these words about expertise don't hold up. We have proposed two Doctors of Science for this Supervisory Board. One of these doctors was not selected as a member of the Fund's Supervisory Board. They were chosen candidates with much lower vocational education, which is said to have prevailed over politics and not the profession. Dr. Andrej Persic was the candidate who wasn't elected. We proposed it in the parliamentary group and unfortunately the coalition decided on other criteria. So, part of the paradigm is falling. The second thing is that several times in these debates were said, "you have made similar decisions in the previous term." Yeah. But for a new term of office, the current Prime Minister, the current potential candidate for prime minister, said that if he was elected Prime Minister, he would work differently in the new term. The country can run better. However, in this particular case, you have not made any changes. You have not yet reduced the opposition's number of members, nor have you reduced the members of the largest party, nor have you improved. That's what they say. We can't talk about any progress here. We can't talk about stagnation. And the next thing that's very problematic, I'm very afraid that this fund will work in the same way as the fate of a gas tolar. We had some dedicated source, in the case of a gas toll for the construction of a highway network, and most of this money has disappeared in an integrated budget for purely other purposes, as was the law and as was the purpose of this. Mr. Anderlich, who was in charge of this machinery at the National Assembly at the time, knows this very well. The fate of this decommissioning fund is very similar, as the ambitions of the government coalition are such that there will be no dedicated consumption and purposeful, I will say, nobility of funds collected in a special account for the purposes of the fund and for the purposes of building for the storage of low and medium-sized radioactive waste, but will be for other energy purposes, meaning that the current coalition will re-use what it has already done, and in the case of the highway programme. It's the exact same approach. And the exact same people are among the same coalitions, which means that some legislation is adopted in the National Assembly at a time when a sufficient purchase is collected and another approach, another policy, and a second dedicated use of funds, is launched. The whole change that will take place in this area is actually going in this direction and is also the basis for changes in this area for unintended uses. I'm sorry, but the fact is. All those politicisations that will continue to take place when the other bodies of the Fund are named or some have even abolished, and perhaps some other powers may change and postpone, will lead to a huge amount of funds, 100, 150, 200 million Euros being collected here for the purposes of the SD, LDS and Zerez coalition, but will remain silent observers. Instead of dealing with nobility, instead of the government dealing with whether Croatia will also provide a partnership part in time and in sufficient quantity, this government coalition will only deal with what is being gathered, distribute, distribute and "split" into a variety of accounts, then perhaps on some networks, etc. It is probably not a long time when we will also deal with these things, and I regret that the concept of work in this area is that the concept also works in the introduction of the budget in general goes in this direction of redistribution and in particular these coalition interests of individual groups. Instead of dedicated matters, there are some new stories that will be gathered in other ways over the years, when it will actually be necessary to approach the construction of low- and medium-level radioactive waste storage. Just like the highways.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Apparently, some SD MPs can't do it without red phones to call the boss when it's necessary to think because they're used to the instructions. I find it difficult to land and understand the involvement of politicians and officials in the work of financial institutions, such as the Fund, in a way that interferes with some autonomous decisions of these institutions. More than once, it has happened that they are particularly within the mandate of this government, or that this was the custom of the same people in the previous term, telephoned and ordered fund managers to do what they should do and where they should invest money and through which brokerage houses. This has happened many times and is also happening in the mandate of this government. And if someone who knows it's illegal, that it's wrong, that it's harmful, that says it's a sin. A sin that needs to be condemned and not evaluated, but is assessed how this action came out at all, how it came out of how someone hoped, despite the power of power, to cut down and report this thing. That's what bothers me, and here I see that it's a problem. Therefore, it is necessary to remove all who dare to speak and to declare irregularities. That's why this fund has been targeted by these human resources clearances lately. First, he was on the headmaster's wallpaper. It was obvious to him that his portfolio was a fund, the real value of his investments fell during the economic crisis. Interestingly, it fell by 13 or 1%, while the Slovenian stock exchange index fell by 60. This was unheard of, it should be removed immediately. Since there were soft arguments that the experts had laughed at these arguments, this was what we saw at the Commission's meetings to oversee public finances, you went to the other board of directors. It is necessary to shoot Mrs Romano Jordan Cizelj's doctor of nuclear science, because if you are a politician, you are infected, regardless of whether you are an expert in some profession and, of course, you also need to be politically disciplined and removed from the supervisory board of this fund. That you have a direct ambition for money, you said. The government has adopted strategic adjustments 2010 and 2011. This is a document adopted by the Government, in which you stated that you would like to use the funds from this fund for entirely other purposes than those of purpose [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u224	Dear Members, I am really embarrassed, just believe that it should be more unpleasant for you who do not listen to the one who speaks, but who disturbs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u225	President, that's no problem if they don't listen. Even if they did, they wouldn't get caught. That's how I don't make trouble. Thanks for the intervention, though. Of course, the money of this fund has always been interesting. In fact, this fund is also established by law, and therefore Parliament has a key role to play and I ask you, Members of the Coalition, do not give anything to the vampirised individuals who are taking their claws from the money of this fund to do so. It's your responsibility. If you wanted some more effective control over what would have been easier for you, then at least a fraction of this new human resources paradigm would have been fulfilled and perhaps some more of the opposition would have been appointed to this supervisory committee. However, you will not, and then you can vote in such a supervisory committee and you know who has 7 to 3, you actually have a two-thirds majority. I personally cannot support this proposal in any way. I believe that neither does the SDS Group. And another of the said Flossules, which will never and will never take effect, is this new human resources paradigm, better staffing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u227	I can't believe what I heard in this debate, but good. A few words will have to be said. If this is the failed Pahor's paradigm, this supervisory council, appointment today, then I deeply apologize to you for acting on yours or Janš's in this case. You have established such a relationship in the previous term. We've only replaced people on the supervisory board. Exactly. The opposition has exactly as much as it has now, a coalition exactly as it now has after this proposal. In this proposal, I particularly like the fact that the Supervisory Committee represents all the parties sitting in Parliament who will be able to exercise control over this fund. How much understanding for opposition control when you land in the opposition, as that is probably understandable. But I would ask you not to conclude in the way that I have heard today that you judge others by yourself - it is not good! You were talking about vampirized individuals. This is probably not enough, and it will have to be said who it is and how it was vamped and what it means for us in Slovenia. As I said, the relationship is exactly as it was in the previous term. However, as far as the profession is concerned, as you are concerned when you are running out of political power, this means that we have proposed to the chair of the Supervisory Board of this Fund, and I hope that today it will be confirmed, Master of Science. So far, this fund has been run by a construction technician. It's probably a very good comparison, and it endures, of course, if we look at it with your eyes. If we look at it with the usual ones, it won't stand any comparisons. We took your prescription. If you're judging that he's not good, of course, that's your business. As you proposed in the previous term, we have proposed in this mandate. And in the Group of Social Democrats we will also support this proposal. With regard to the President of the Management Board, there is now a debate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission on how to resolve it on a proposal. And in doing so, let me just modestly inform you that this President has already resigned once in 2008, and then resigned in 2008. So within a period of time, she realized that this was incompatible and then miraculously reconsidered, perhaps using the advice of one of you. We will certainly support this proposal, which is professional and in which all the political parties in this House are represented, in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to fund the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant as Chairman. Mark Mavec, and as members they are called: Matjaž Engel, mag. Sanja Goranovich, Bojan Horvat, Maximilian Lavrinc, Anton Mustar, mag. Franc Probs, mag. Miran Stanko, Dr. Igor Shalamun and Natasha Šterban Bezjak. We're voting. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? I give an explanation for the vote for the application on behalf of the Group of Members. Dear ladies and gentlemen, explanations of vote can be made in any vote, whether I am well-willed or not. Here you go. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u229	In the Slovenian People's Party and ourselves, we are aware of how important the institution and the Supervisory Committee we are voting on today. The debates that have now taken place have been political controversy again and there has been talk about the human rights paradigm, and it is essentially a financial institution on which it depends whether radioactive waste originating in Slovenia will be properly stored or not. As I have already said, I myself come from the municipality where these wastes are stored, from a municipality where it has recently been adopted and issued a positive opinion that the landfill of radioactive waste can be built, it is very important for us that such a fund also has this basic function, which it performs and that policy also allows resources to be used strictly on purpose. I have also attended a number of institutes within the European Commission, where we were envied that we have a fund in Slovenia by the country and that this is actually significantly better than that of companies and that business money is spinning and that in the end, we do not know who will clean up radioactive waste or store this radioactive waste. This is a very important rule for the generation to pay, which is also reaping the benefits of this production of nuclear energy. Therefore, from this point of view, I appeal to all those who are responsible both in the supervisory committee and within the framework of the policy in this area, so that these mistakes, which have already occurred in the past and also the mistakes or forecasts we have heard in this mandate, should not be a source of energy efficiency and similar matters. It is a strictly purposeful resource, which is deliberately paid from collected electricity, produced electricity. I think that money will really be the best used and that it will justify its purpose when the landfill is built. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this proposal, which is proposed. We think it is right that such an important fund is called a Supervisory Committee. However, it is the responsibility of all those who will be appointed to this Supervisory Committee, regardless of which political key or otherwise named, to our future generations. Therefore, I hope that this topic will not be a topic where we can count on who comes from, but it is a topic where we will be responsible to us and to our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the vote on the draft decision I read earlier. We're voting. 53 Members and Members voted in favour, against 16. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision on the composition of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to an introduction to the resignation of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. By letter dated 21 December 2009, RTV member Slovenia Igor Vidmar informed the National Assembly that he had resigned from the function of member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and had asked the National Assembly to begin the discharge procedure with that function. The proposal for a decision was presented to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Reported for discussion. The mandate-election commission presented the following decision to the assembly: The National Assembly notes that Igor Vidmar resigned from the function of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed under the sixth indent of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, and therefore, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, terminates his mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, established in 2010. The term of office shall expire on the date of adoption of this Decision. I note that the assembly took note of this decision and I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 38th A DOT OF THE DAY - continuation of the interrupted point with the title of the proposal for the discharge of the Ministry of the Environment and the space of CARL VICTOR ERJAVC. Since we were informed in writing on 27 January 2010 of the resignation of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Karl Viktor Erjavac by the Prime Minister Borut Pahor of the resignation of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Karl Viktor Erjavac, we cannot proceed on the basis of the above-mentioned consideration of the Government's proposal for his discharge. That's why I'm closing my proposal for the release of Karl Viktor Erjavac. However, in line with the work of the National Assembly, we always deal with all the Optional Affairs that have reached the end of the meeting on the agenda, and I propose that the assembly proceed to the hearing of the President of the Government's notice of the resignation of Karl Viktor Erjavac from the post of Minister of Environment and Space. The President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Karl Viktor Erjavec had resigned as Minister of Environment and Space. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavec, has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister from the date of the meeting. Until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, he shall carry out ongoing operations. Let me, on your behalf and on my behalf, thank Karl Viktor Erjavac for his work as a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also for his cooperation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and to wish him well on his way of life. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] This also concludes this item of the agenda and at the same time the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
