ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Miro Petek, Joško Godec, Janez Ribič, Guido Kres, Miran Jerič, from 3 p.m. on, mag. Borut Saiovic, 11:30. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and ministers to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 20th item of the agenda, the representative of the Omanotere, the Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development, to the 25th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 27th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 7. 12. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by considering a proposal for a decision on the level of funds belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2011. Does the representative of the proposaler of enlargement, the representative of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice want to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider the proposal for a decision as the 23rd item of the agenda on Wednesday 15. 12. 2010 We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as proposed by the reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEISURE AND INVIDENTIAL SURVEILLANCE PROPOSAL, RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Each, yet so complex, question has its own essence. In the case of the pension system, we consider this to be the following. The life expectancy in Slovenia is extended by three months each year, which of course we can especially look forward to. But life must be not only longer, but also quality and safety. The elderly should therefore be provided with adequate pension and social security. Although the existing pension system works in the right direction, there is no longer a process of prolonging life. The deficit in the pension register is increasing, as well as supplementary funding from the budget, and pensions are falling in terms of salaries. To address these issues, we have therefore come up with a proposal for a new pension system. His effects will be as follows. Initial pensions will increase from 5 to 19%, the lowest-income population. The reconciliation of pensions will ensure their real growth. The working people of Slovenia will gradually work up to three years longer, but due to the benefits of parenting and compulsory military service they will rarely work until the age of 65. Workers who have begun to work young will be able to retire after the age of 60 if women are 41 years old and men are 43 years old. Under the conditions met for early retirement, we will receive up to 65 years at the expense of 20% of our pension. However, we will be able to partially retire and receive an additional 5% higher partial pension on a partial salary. We will pay our contributions from all forms of work, the minimum contributions will be higher and we will all pay them without delay. Over the next 10 to 15 years, we will be able to ensure the safe and stable payment of pensions, without intervention interventions into the system. And in order to ensure a safe age, it will not be necessary to impose additional burdens on the working population, i.e. the younger and the middle generation, either with additional debts or with additional contributions. Dear Members and Members! In the second reading, you voted on the amendments with discretion, so that they remain at the heart of the set objectives. The exception was the amendment to take into account the service of military service during the retirement period. This would seriously jeopardise the objective of the stability of the pension fund, as the projected costs at the annual level amount to around €60 million, and even higher are the unforeseeable costs that such a solution could entail. That's why the government is proposing to delete it. In today's vote on the amendments, I ask you for the same degree of prudence. I also ask you to support the final text of the law, as any vote against this law would support the further decline in pensions and the threat to the social security of pensioners, support for interventions in pension rights, such as intervention laws, support for lowering the confidence of the population in the pension system, support for much sharper and less gradual measures to be taken at a later stage, and support for lowering the confidence of the international community in the readiness and management of fundamental development issues in Slovenia, which would reflect the fall of the country's credit rating and consequently make it more difficult to access international funds and at much higher debt repayment costs. I believe that no one wants to impose such a burden on the inhabitants of Slovenia and that you will therefore vote in favour of the new law on pension and disability insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Group has approached the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance constructively and with the principle of support for measures in the belief that reform is necessary, so we have already made some comments and added to the law at the stage of the public hearing and in the Committee and the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that one of the major structural reforms in Slovenia is indeed pensionable, as it is more obvious that the financial situation of the pension fund has long been unsustainable and the forecasts are even more bleak. It would therefore be necessary to create order, to regulate a number of laws that regulate pensions in a special way, and in particular to regulate the records of the pension institution. The first question is whether we want to pour pure wine in this pension reform. We are likely to retire under the most favourable conditions in Europe, but we have an average life expectancy of the highest in Europe. Of course, that's good, as the Minister has said before. But our productivity, unfortunately, is not among the highest. We live longer, and we want normal pensions, we can't tax work any more, we can't print money on our own. We need sobriety, as we can do at home when we find out we have too little money in a month. We can go to the referendum and we're all against it. But the money's gonna run out. Then what are we gonna do? And that's not even the last pension law. Other countries have significantly poorer conditions, and they are further exacerbated, raising the retirement age. Ask young people today how they feel about their pension. If they never saw her, they would think so, because their predecessors had poured the money from the pension register into various artificially recognized rights even to people who had barely, for example, completed some even 40 years or would not even have belonged to them under the general pension law. At the same time, we always point out in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we should not do any new wrongs when considering the new law. We have taken a thorough approach, as I have already said, to the analysis of the proposed law, both the first drafts and the subsequent government proposal. And if you'll allow me, I'll give you some comparisons or our thoughts of what we've achieved with these proposals and where we haven't come across the right understanding. First of all, the abolition of parental bonuses – a bonus to mothers at 8 months of age for each child under 58 years of age, I must say that all these treatments have been fully taken into account. Furthermore, recognition of retirement age for workers who do not have paid contributions. Here, too, we have encountered a favourable response and the pension period is also recognised by workers who have not been paid or paid contributions by companies. Furthermore, we thought it was important to take into account pension benefits, i.e. all overtimees, Christmases, prizes with paid contributions and so on. This is where we came across understanding. We further commented on the gradual tightening of the pension conditions, which was also taken into account during the debate and amendment phase of the law. One of the important issues, more technically, is electronic access to data from the PSI. Here we have received information or an opinion that this cannot be implemented immediately, but a gradual application of this, and some measures in this area will also go in this direction. We continued to believe that the retirement age of 65 for a full pension was too high. Here too the government comes in second treatment with intermediate options or a combination of retirement age and age. Furthermore, one important matter seemed to us, and it had already been mentioned earlier by Mr Minister, the abolition of bonuses for the military era or the payment of pensions. Let us remember that our amendment was adopted in the context of the second reading, but that the Government proposes to delete this already adopted amendment. Furthermore, in these discussions we have always proposed a reduction in the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for older workers. Here the Government has taken this proposal into account with partial solutions. The Government or the proposer or coalition did not take into account malus in early pensions for all ages up to 65. Our proposal was that young people in early retirement should be accounted for only for the missing period until the conditions for full pension and not for the entire period of up to 65 years. Equally, early pensioners should be recognised for the bonuses they have reached, as far as parenting, military, and so on. Our proposal, with the second reading amendment, was to take into account the apprenticeship. We think that this is an extremely important category for many people. It is a matter of taking into account the part of the apprenticeship that the student or apprentice has spent at work in which of the working organisations or independent entrepreneurs. We have also made a proposal, and we often listen on the ground among people that independent entrepreneurs, unlike employees, cannot continue their activities after retirement. Unfortunately, the government has not listened to our proposal. Next. One of the most important things where we have spent the most effort and time — time is not a problem, nor is it a problem if it were paid — is the issue of a state pension. This is a national pension introduced by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the period 1999-2000 when the law was adopted at the time. It's about 15,000 users of this state pension right now. These are people who are less and less for biological reasons and are practically no longer coming to new ones. It is those who, after the regulations in force at the time, were not even allowed to be protected under any regulation. To all of those, the law of the year, I don't know, 1999 or 2000 has granted a so-called state pension, which currently amounts to just under 200 euros. We have also put forward a compromise proposal to keep state pensions for all those who have or will eventually receive appropriate decisions by enforcing this law. Furthermore, such cases are being dealt with in accordance with the Law on Social Transfers, which we have adopted, I believe that in July this year in the National Assembly. It is mainly for older women in most cases, widows of all possible professions, farmers, craftsmen, especially these two categories, will certainly not empty this woman's pension allowance. I did a brief review of what was taken into account, what was not. For the third hearing, which is on the table today, we have tabled two amendments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The first to save a state pension, I stress, to those who already receive it or already have decisions. New ones would be dealt with under the Social Transfers Act. Second, the enforcement, taking into account the mandatory service period of the military period, namely the progressive enforcement, after quarter of each year. This is a compromise proposal, and I therefore expect the National Assembly to take these two constructive proposals into account in this third reading. Of course, voting on these two amendments will ultimately also depend on our decision on support or non-support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the minister and a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS delegation has never, however, refused to accept the necessity of adopting the pension reform under consideration, but at the very beginning we made it conditional on the harmonisation of pensions. As representatives, the rights advocates not only of the current pension generation, but also of the future pensioners, who are today, will be tomorrow and for many years still workers, we have closely monitored the design of the package of measures that this reform will bring and are, in our firm belief, essential for balancing the demographic situation of our society and the financing system of the first pension pillar. It is true that our comments have to some extent been taken into account and that the accompanying socio-economic situation dictates the need to adapt and thus change the pension system as a public and primary pillar, whose mission is to ensure the well-deserved safety and dignity of every human being. However, in the DeSUS Group, we fear that solutions that are supposed to achieve these goals remain open, firmly wrapped into the unknown. There is great doubt that, such as they are, they will produce satisfactory results because measures of any pension reform cannot in themselves deliver sufficient results without the necessary measures in another area to improve the pension system or reform. We have no doubt, however, that the results will be fair, righteous to the pensioners, to the present and to the future. The integrity of the system of solutions, which is supposed to maintain a decent level with the work of earned pensions, will not be realized due to the intervention freezes on the coordination of pensions, which have been in line for the second year in a row and are becoming worse. Also with the last text of this law, which postpones the formula for coordination [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Retirement for three years. At the same time, we must say again that the move of the Government, by insisting on the almost complete freezing of the reconciliation of pensions, has reached gravely into the completely legitimate and also deserving rights of pensioners. The former social property, which is used in the tenth to cover the needs of clean pensions, is today, when wages grow poorly, quite sufficient that pensions can be reconciled as prescribed by law. Half-coordination already means only about a third of what the Capital Society has made available today for the needs of pensioners. At the end of the last month, 100 million were earmarked for PIZ and 32 million would be needed for half-coordination of pensions. To cover what will the difference between these assets be used? In order to cover the budget deficit, to patch up the gaps in the pension register, which were also caused by a reduction in the rates for employers to build in this way on the competitiveness of the economy and, with differences, to maintain an adequate number of jobs. What jobs? Today, 103 thousand 831 people are missing! As a member of the European Union, we are following the others, but we remain the only case in this respect between European countries with a half-lower contribution from the employer to the pension fund than the worker's. This was also the reason why the budget took on such large liabilities and deficits in the pension register. The efforts of these generations, which in the years of hard and honest work have earned old pensions, have been eradicated. 160,000 pensioners receive a full pension under the poverty threshold. Around 350 000 beneficiaries of all pensions are under the amount of EUR 562. The source of the funds paid to the pension fund by the Capital Society is the source of the payment of the contribution thus made by the pensioners to the state by means of their work. This cannot and must not be a source for the payment of social transfers and pensions that are not based on work and contributions. It is the responsibility of the State to cover these matters only from budgetary resources and not to take them from where they should not be. The pension system, based on intergenerational solidarity, offers a fair solution for both the good and the working man, of course, if it is a pure pension system and a net pension allowance. The first pillar’s credit system should be sufficient to cover work-based pensions through contributions. On the basis of the calculations, the unions estimated that the reduction in the rate of contribution to employers had resulted in a total of 8 billion fewer funding for all years since 1997. At the same time, it is important not to forget the manoeuvring in the pension and health register and in the budget also on the subject of black work and the performance of work beyond the labour law. What is the share of the grey economy we cannot even precisely assess, we can only say about 25% of GDP. According to foreign researchers, the grey economy represents 27%, representing €10 billion of deficits per year. The question is whether we can support pension reform. At the same time, if not earlier, it could also cover areas that have a much more negative impact on the general public’s financial situation than on the need for a pension allowance. Is it possible for a government policy that does not do enough at the revenue level of the budget to expect that pensions will ever normally be fully valorized? Let us not forget that many of our pensioners today are more than just themselves. Those who can do so also help their children, grandchildren who have no work or livelihoods with the remnant of their pension. Is this how we should understand intergenerational solidarity on which the pension system should be based? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u8	Good morning! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At home, a 72 - year - old grandmother and a 17 - year - old granddaughter playing on a computer chats on the phone. Grandma says, "Oh, my granddaughter, when I was so old, I've been working, you know." The granddaughter says, "When I'm as old as you are, I'll work. More." This is a kind way of telling one intention of this pension law. It is true that there are 428 pages or articles that I will not think of, an extensive law that probably required a lot of effort in your ministry. True, he had well - meaning goals set. True, he expresses great concern for the pension fund, as it will be in a short time. True, in his opening part, he expresses his desire for a safe old age, for a higher pension. But it is true that there are beautiful events and desires in different fairy tales as much as you want. It is true, though, that those who were more or less involved in this law had to look at the medal and turn it to the other side. All assumptions or most assumptions, first of all, have no basis, because the Government and no one knows how many people will work longer if this law is passed. That's not the answer. Secondly, there is no answer as to the financial impact if this law is adopted. Nor is there any real and honest information that can be trusted, for each one with his own experts, the union side on one side, government on the other, claims otherwise. The government claims that pensions will be higher, trade unions with their experts prove that pensions will be lower. It is true that only a projection of the demographic structure was made, which assumes that by 2060 the number of people aged between 55 and 65 would have increased to almost 600 000. These are calculations and predictions. However, there are no calculations as to how many students are envisaged on the basis of which they can be calculated, when they will be finished and when the work will take place and how long they will work, what will be the educational structure, what will be the economic development of this country and how many new jobs are clearly crucial for the filling of the pension allowance. And if we go any further. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves, probably all of us, regardless of the political colours and affiliation, how many unpaid contributions to the pension register have been in the last 10 years, not to say 20 years. Where is this calculation? The number would be terrible if they had it. And where is this money that should have been paid into the pension register, it wasn't paid. Except that it is at least 60% to 70% in pockets – in pockets of capitalist Slovenian managers or in current savings and other accounts from Austria through Switzerland to the Cayman Islands. It is true that no one in this country has done anything to keep an accurate register of inflows into the pension register. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves and ask for an answer that we are not and we will never get it, where is the money from the pension fund from when the ratio of payments was 3 to 1 and 2.5 to 1, which means that we should have in normal conditions today, if one part for one pensioner, still 1.5, if not twice as much money as this country needs to pay for pensions. Where is this money from 1985 onward until 1995? Where is he?Oh, my God! Let this country say it! Is it right, we asked the Slovenian National Party that we are talking about retirement? It's not right! It's not right! It has been proven that the key condition for full-time pensions is working time. You've been working 40 years, you've been paying 40 years, and that's the criteria for paying your pension. It is not right that this law does not clearly and accurately define that there are structures of people, that are only mentioned — but that these structures exist — and that there are structures of people who, in both physical and mental terms or health terms, however you wish, will not be able and will not be able to achieve the conditions for a full pension. Many will not be able to and will be able to work until the age of 65. I personally take the bus driver to Spain for a football game that will be 67 years old, but I don't want to drive. No offense, with all due respect. Even less so, I imagine maybe my wife or my kids at 60, but at 65, they're standing behind running strips and moaning all the time, or that my son's a blacksmith by profession, so I don't say anything worse if they're bricklayers. Be old and imagine, now those who are 55 and more, let's go out in the snow and at minus 11 let's work all day, let's move our whole lives into bricks and irons – if we can. They'll be rare, but most of them won't. Eight hours, they're working 16 hours and more today. It is not right to seek or draw close to the Swiss way where we would somehow equalize the reconciliation of pensions by half with wages by half with the growth of living costs. I am immediately in favour of having wages such as the Swiss, the economy at the level of Switzerland, and the cost of living such as the Swiss, from tomorrow to tomorrow, and then I am immediately in favour. Pensions must, at least for those who have earned them, approach the cost of living fairly and pay. Even occupational pensions are defined in such a way that, despite being placed due to specific conditions at a certain time, they will increase. When I was young, I read a lot, and sometimes I didn't pay so much attention to the stories and events that Charles Dickens wrote during the period of rotten English capitalism, where, I have to say, almost no one worked until the age of 65 because they all died before. And it reminds me of this story that there's another ugly, hidden way, and I'm not saying it's intentional, but there is. When raising a retirement pension, the pension will also save a lot of money for all those who die earlier. I'd like them all to live 100 years, but they won't. Somebody's gonna be working until they're 65, average male mortality, I think, but now it's 71 years old; I think it's, uh, fix me if it's not. Which means, for four years, a man who worked 43 years old and 65 years old will be able to enjoy a pension. That's great! The army. I was forced to go into the army. I was forced to break up a working relationship where I'd rather stay. Forced! I was forced to work 24 hours a day for a year! Not only is this supposed to belong to me, not just that, okay, but if it's wrong, I'll buy it. Justice should be such that this should be recognised automatically. And not just three times because we've been working all day, we've been protecting the country all day. That's what was said, and that's what we had to do. But where I wanted to work, I couldn't because they forced me to serve the army. And now, none of that. What do we care what you went into the army for? Yeah, I had to. But I didn't want to. Cash sustainability. Of course there's a black and gray job. There's a lot of him. Eight, nine, ten years in the National Assembly, how black and gray work must be suspended, sanctioned. We haven't done anything in nine, ten years. A lot of money is already pouring back into his pockets instead of his pension box. The taxation of luxury, indeed luxury, we are talking about the entire mandate of this government. Did we do something? Nothing! One of the four state cash registers could also be filled out of this. No, you don't. And a new reform will soon be needed. And for a simple reason, because we don't know if it's going to be adopted or if it's going to be sustainable. Then why are we doing this? Why? In disregard of all the normal human content that I'm sure I've just counted. No politicisation and no popularity, no unions, one or the other. The facts are what they are. With all these facts that I have listed, all the questions that remain completely unanswered, I will not go to the market and buy something that is not there. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not and cannot confirm such a law that leaves a number of open questions, but gives some very clear answers about things that are not, of course, attainable, impossible, at least as far as the old pension is concerned, that I do not talk about it, and once again I say that the only fair criterion for calculation and payment would be working time. I believe that this coalition is "burned," as I have already seen in Article 27, how it goes that you will adopt this law. All I can say is, whoever you say "yes," one day you'll be 65, 66, and so will your kids, and then we'll see. I'm done, just like I started. In the old days, a bakery bakery at a meeting of the working council said, "We'll have better wages, we'll raise the price of bread, who's up for it?" They all were. This same oven went to the store this afternoon, and he bought bread, and they said, today, bread is more expensive for half a dinar, and he was pounding from store to house, but who the hell invented that even the bread was being teased. That's the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In 1999, we adopted the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we now call the PPIZ-1, which is currently in force, has been supplemented and amended in the meantime. The 2000 reform, as analysis shows, and also due to the financial economic crisis, is no longer sufficient. If we are to provide a pension scheme, which will meet the obligations of its insurers in a way that there will be no further fall in pensions, I would like to stress in particular that there will be no further fall in pensions, while at the same time being fiscally sustainable, there is a need for additional measures, which we are also expected to take today. In the LDS, we support both objectives, especially the solutions, that people who have worked their whole lives are entitled to a decent pension even in the coming years without fear. A decent pension can be provided by an individual from various pillars. Each of these pillars has a role to play. The main message of the modernisation of the pension system is that both the State and the individual are responsible for maintaining and improving economic and social security. The overall cross-border objective of modernising the pension system complements the set of specific specific modernisation objectives on the basis of which the proposals for individual measures are defined, namely to increase the proportion of active insured persons by extending their work and raising their actual retirement age, to maintain solidarity in the pension scheme, to establish greater transparency and transparency of the system in the way that the pension scheme is in the function of age insurance, and to exclude all institutions, so-called social transfers, which do not fall within the compulsory pension scheme and to inform the individual of the amount of funds collected and the expected pension. To provide decent pensions in the future, it is unfortunately necessary to face an increase in the retirement age. In doing so, we strongly advocate gradualness in the Liberal Democracy, since we do not have to expect such a long working time from older workers working in different situations. It is precisely because of a wide range of poorer working conditions that we will have to do more in addition to pension changes, including improving and adapting jobs, giving more support to education, improving technologies, more worrying about improving the conditions for workers' health, implementing measures to speed up the entry of young people into the labour market and many other measures. At the LDS, we have always advocated the view that in such important social issues as the regulation of pensions, it is necessary to seek the best possible solution from the perspective of all generations. That is why we see this law as a search for a balance between the interests of young people who come to the labour market, the middle generation who bear the greatest burden of pensions, and those who are close to retirement, and those who already enjoy a well-deserved pension. The main problem with the current pension system is that the expenditure from its treasury is increasing and the income is decreasing. Predicts for the future, which are particularly poor due to demographic characteristics of population ageing, require certain measures. Therefore, if we say that the current system is sufficient, but the trends suggest otherwise, then we agree that pension bills will only last until 2020, when they already spend 11.2 % of the GDP on pension expenditure, and the money in it to cover all costs will not be sufficient, but will have to cover the state budget in a substantially higher amount than now. The pension reform continues to strengthen intergenerational solidarity and the balance of responsibility and contributions between outgoing and upcoming generations, which is of paramount importance for the LDS. Intergenerational solidarity, which applies to the first pillar of compulsory pension and disability insurance, is based on the flow of the system. Those who work pay contributions for those who are already retired. These two fields are indisputably linked and dependent, so if one part is weakened, the other part cannot expect pensions. It is therefore essential to find a balance between the existing and the coming. Slovenia has a marked problem with the late integration of young people into the labour market and, on the other hand, the rapid abandonment of the labour market. As we keep reminding the LDS of this problem that we are experiencing, we also expect appropriate measures at this point to build on the pension reform proposal ahead of us. It's about ensuring intergenerational solidarity, because if you don't, we're not going to talk about how high the pensions are, but whether we're going to have them. The biggest problem for the stability of the existing pension system is demographic trends, i.e. population ageing as a result of longer life, reduced fertility and a smaller number of people working. All this data shows that we will have an ever younger and medium-sized population who will pay for the pension fund. That the proposed changes to the pension system would not be so drastic, with experts reminding us that pension reform is losing its original goal, and that we are maintaining both the basic objectives and the principle of intergenerational solidarity and reciprocity, we have advocated in the LDS for certain different solutions – despite warnings about the reduction and questionability of achieving the basic objectives. As I have already mentioned, the main objective of the changes is to stop the fall in pensions or to provide decent pensions. Therefore, together with the coalition, we have proposed and adopted measures that include a smaller number of years during the period of the establishment of the pension base than was proposed in the draft, namely 30 consecutive years, and a solution has been adopted to eliminate the 3 worst years of these 30 years. This is particularly important in the younger and medium-sized population, as it is not necessary that in today's labour market situation every next job and year is better. Supplements have also been adopted allowing exceptions to pension recognition, the period of parental protection for all children and the reduction of the age limit for compulsory military service in full, with the possibility of acquiring this period by a reduced base. In the area of accounting and payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance in the LDS Business Club, we strongly support the prohibition of delaying the payment of contributions. The previous solution in the law, which allowed this, had a good and noble purpose, but in practice, it was born. The biggest problem that we have already pointed out is the fact that someone in a foreign name and without knowledge has approved the postponement of payments of contributions which constitute an integral part of the salary and which also derives from individual rights. If the one who approved the applications on behalf and at the expense of the one who deprived him also bore responsibility, there would be no problem. As in a number of cases, we have been saddened to learn that individuals have not even been informed. However, as we are also aware in the LDS that the economy must and is in the same way that it has certain exits in force in order to properly implement the mechanisms to be adopted in the tax area. In this case, the State will, on its own behalf and for its own account, propose solutions without fear to interfere with the acquired rights of the individual who has acquired them and obtained them by work. Such a decision and responsibility and the related consequences should be borne by the State itself. The bill follows closely and defines measures in all pension pillars to achieve the two main objectives that we stress once again are the financial sustainability of the pension system and the provision of decent pensions. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, based on all analyses, studies and projections of the state of the pension system, we estimate that we need a pension reform. Based on the demographic indicators of which we are prisoners, delaying change only leads us to an unstable future, where even more painful measures can be followed, such as reducing wages and social transfers, although none of us certainly want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Solidarity Group discussed the solutions to the proposed pension reform thoroughly and repeatedly. We are aware that demographic conditions are forcing us to extend our working time, and we are also aware that the problem is that there are fewer and fewer employees, compared with the number of pensioners, that wages are generally too low and there are too few contributions from them to provide long-term pensions under this heading. We have agreed that pension reform is necessary. In the framework of the finalisation of the law, we have tabled several amendments without any final effect. We are not sure whether individual solutions are necessary, such as 30 years of retirement or 65 years of age or young people. We believe that the same final effects could also be achieved by extending the number of years per base at this time, for example, to 25 years, the necessary age at 63 years, and after five and six years, depending on the situation or effects, it is said that they would seek to ensure the liquidity of the pension fund more gradually than is now stipulated in the law, thereby avoiding the threats of trade unions by referendum and perhaps reaching a minimum of consensus with them today. The question is what is better – this question has always been objectively asked in our parliamentary group: whether the law falls or whether the law will not be broken by the referendum promised by the unionists. We are aware that we have more in saving the pension allowance, but they are all mostly unkind, options. At this point, it would probably be the worst to increase the employers' contribution rate, which is not already competitive at this relatively low level. The next option is to reduce rights, which are modest anyway, which is why it is out of the question. In fact, we are left with this opportunity to extend our working hours as the only one that is at least bad, and at the same time this solution is triggering the biggest opposition from trade unions, which are, after all, those who will have to pay our and future pensions. We must fully conclude that at the time of the hearing, however, there has been some improvement in the final solutions, such as child-regarding, military service, retirement before 65 for those who have reached a full working age without having any small children, halting the drop in the replacement rate, which now remains at 80%, the increase in the lowest pensions, which are of course a social issue already today. However, we still believe that the maluses are relatively high and the bonuses are among the poorest compared to the solutions in similar systems shown in the introduction of the law. Last but not least, at the time of the negotiations by the proposer, at least half a year of meaningless and unsuccessful time was lost by those who oppose this final law today, rather than making a greater effort to reach a minimum agreement with the unions that does not exist and makes us a gray hair if we spend again four million for the referendum, instead of giving it to all those who have very small pensions or who are otherwise poor. In doing so, the most significant is the fact that since early spring the Association of Retired Slovenians has continued to support the solutions of the proposer, and no one – not the proposer or the ZDUS – has been able to tell the Slovenian public. In such a situation of concealing the consent of the largest pension society, I can say that some have shouted that they are fighting for pensioners, gathering political points, and as a party of pensioners oppose those who are in favour of the adoption of pension reform. Understand who can. Of course, I do not accept that, and I do not agree with that. For the sake of all of this, we have taken into account the position of the Slovenian Retired Union, which represents more than 250,000 pensioners, because of its support for these changes, and this is important enough for us to have the majority support of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, director of the Directorate, colleagues and colleagues! We Social Democrats have already been aware that pension reform is one of the key issues of the current mandate. That is why we adopted the position of the conference this April on the modernisation of the pension system. We agreed that the changes to the existing law were necessary and that we would ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension register under the conditions of the changed demographic relations, and that the conditions of retirement were also levelled for new generations only with the change that was necessary because and must remain intergenerational solidarity the foundation of our pension system. The key reason for pension reform, and if we move around like that, is population ageing. On the one hand, the extension of life expectancy, on the other hand, the fact that Slovenians have one of the lowest births in Europe. This presents for Slovenia one of the biggest economic and social challenges of the future and the related question of how we will maintain solidarity between generations and ensure a safe age for all. As a result of population ageing, the proportion of pensioners in the overall population is increasing, and this is not followed by the number of active people who pay for pensions against their contributions, that is, the evidence system. Demographic trends show that the ratio between active population and pensioners will continue to decline rapidly in the coming years and we will soon be in a situation where one employee will have to maintain one pensioner; today this ratio is 1.66 : 1. Such a situation also raises questions about the financial sustainability of the pension scheme in the future and the stability of our country's overall public finances. We must be aware that the retirement age is slowly following demographic changes, but if the new pension reform raises the retirement age, the relationship between pensioners and the working population will stabilise, contributing to the sustainability of the pension scheme. If we do not adapt the pension system to an unfavourable demographic and public finances situation, we risk that future generations, among us just a few, we are also talking about reforms that will affect them, that may not have pensions or that will be so low that they will not be able to provide basic social security with them. And that destroys the foundations of intergenerational solidarity on which our pension system is based. In fact, we had only three alternatives ahead of us: an increase in the contribution rate and thus the burden on the active population, particularly young people who are still entering the labour market, a further reduction in pensions, in which case it is necessary to say that they are already gradually falling under the applicable law of ZPIZ-1. The pension reform in 2000 was agreed by all social partners, both trade unions and pensioners, and they agreed to compromise that retirement age would rise slower and very slowly and that pensions would fall. We are thus faced today with a 15% reduction in pensions due to this compromise. However, the third and long-term most realistic option is to extend the pension period to obtain the right to an old-age pension. The fact that we cannot avoid reforming the pension system has already been realized in other countries of the European Union. Thus, most Member States of the European Union have already raised retirement age to 65 years, and some have decided that retirement age will gradually rise to 67 years, and nowhere has it been received with enthusiasm. We believe that the people of Slovenia and the people of Slovenia must be united as soon as possible on how we will achieve the objectives of the reform, and we must conclude the necessary compromises that will bring us all together. Compromise is needed for the sake of continuing to ensure the social security of future generations. We need to be aware that as soon as we adopt a new pension reform, less consequences will be felt by all — those who are just before retirement, and in particular young generations. In the debate on amending the 2011 budget and supplementing the 2012 budget, the Social Democrats also drew attention to the necessity of pension reform from the point of view of public finances. For the first time, because pension reform is one of the fundamental structural reforms we need to implement in order to mitigate public debt payments, to accelerate economic recovery and to stop the further deterioration of the social situation of our citizens and citizens. Secondly, failure to implement pension reform means that Slovenia would maintain a high risk of public finances, which means reducing the country's credit rating, a higher interest rate, increasing interest costs and further pressure on the economy and jobs. The proposal for a pension reform is based on three essential measures that have triggered the most controversy in the public, the shedding of half-truths and, in many cases, misleading interpretations. It is as follows: the gradual extension of the conditions for obtaining the right to old age pension, the extension will be very gradual, it will take ten or fifteen years for women; the extension of the period for the dose of the pension base and the modification of the formula for the coordination of pensions. In the course of the consideration of the draft law in the National Assembly, we have adopted, in a constructive debate, some compromise solutions in order to reach the broadest possible agreement between the public and the groups of individuals we are most concerned with with the proposed measures. Let me just mention some. For those who have started early, the required age and retirement period will gradually be extended by four months per year, not for six months as originally proposed. Until the time bonus for parenting, insured persons will be eligible for each child for 8 months and not only for three children as originally envisaged. However, the age condition in women may decrease to 58 years after the transition period and in men to 60 years after the expiry of the transitional period. For men who were in compulsory military service, the age limit should be reduced by a favourable purchase for the entire duration of military service. The next important compromise we have adopted in the second reading of the bill is a reduction in the period for calculating the pension base. The calculated period has been reduced from the initial proposed 34 most favourable years to the 30 most favourable consecutive years, by excluding three for insured persons of the least favourable years, which in practice means the 27 most favourable years. Taking into account the remuneration resulting from the rules governing labour relations, the labour market, parenthood, health rehabilitation such as hospital, the pension is based on the whole of the insured’s salary or base, not only on the actual compensation as originally envisaged. We have made special efforts to do so by the Social Democrats. We've also reached that after 1. 1. In 2011, all legally-accounted contributions are still considered as insurance since we believe that the recovery of their payment is the responsibility of the supervisory authorities and not the responsibility of workers. Social Democrats are aware that changes to the pension system cannot be accepted without a broad consensus. Therefore, in the course of the long public debate and in the course of the consideration of the draft law in the National Assembly, we have focused on seeking compromises that would be acceptable to the majority. With certain solutions already included in the bill, coalition parties wanted to listen to civil society, social partners, the opposition and other interested public. In the second reading, we took into account 15% of the opposition's proposals, 9% of the proposals made on the union proposal and nearly half of those proposed by the opposition were accepted by the Committee's amendments. We have therefore jointly complemented the proposal for a law with as much as a third of the proposals drawn up on the basis of the search for consensus. I would like to see you show me the law that was adopted in this way in the National Assembly. It should also be noted that there is little room for manoeuvre to further soften the legal measures. On the basis of the calculations made at the Ljubljana Faculty of Economics, it follows that the compromises adopted have already reduced the impact of the reform from one quarter to one third. If we continue to soften the reform, the impact of pension reform will be halved and a new reform will have to be prepared soon. Can experts convince us of the necessity of pension reform? According to Dr Tinet Stannik, who is the largest expert on European pension systems, the proposed pension reform ensures sufficient fairness while at least ensuring public financial sustainability over the medium term. A positive element of the new pension reform is that it is envisaged that the retirement of pensions will be halted, or the reduction of pensions, as they would say at home. The pension/net salary ratio will be stabilised at 60% for 40 years in men and 38 years in women. According to the old law, the pension/net salary ratio would have dropped to 56% and pensions would have continued to decline. The current reform increases the level of solidarity. Those with low salaries will receive a higher pension than their calculated pension on the basis of net work contributions, as it will start automatically to operate the basis that is designed at the level of the lowest pension base. This is an extremely important element of solidarity, especially for women. The study of the Faculty of Economics has already shown that this protective measure will raise pensions for three decades of women who receive the lowest pension. In addition, the study showed that the new way of calculating pensions would increase from 8% to 18% compared to the current calculation of pensions. For Obama, the version of the Health Care Act was also a great success. For Slovenia, however, the version of the pension law would be a huge waste of opportunity. We will support the proposal for pension reform by the Social Democrats, and we will also support the amendments proposed by the Government and also by members of the coalition. We are aware of our responsibility, because if we do not accept pension reform, it will be like a toothache. We all know that when we get toothache, we have to go to the dentist. The longer we delay, the more pain and the deeper the procedure. Therefore, I really ask that the level of populism be reduced in the debate on such an important issue that we take responsibility and do what is necessary. All the other comments that have been made and are justified and are not directly related to pension reform, and I have said for the last time that the Social Democrats support them and they need to be implemented as soon as possible, and we are building as a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! For the last time, we will meet on the subject of the law on pension and disability insurance. It is also, in our view, an important, very sensitive law, sensitive because it concerns the fate of each of us, of all citizens, taxpayers. It also represents the process itself, how it is being addressed, shows how we are able to address and coordinate such sensitive topics and seek a national solution. It must be said that we were already surprised at the beginning of this mandate by the fact that this government will undergo drastic changes in pension-disability legislation. Surprisingly, the previous law, which was adopted 10 years ago, has not actually come to life. The previous law of 10 years ago also predicted 65 years of age as the limit at which everyone can retire if at least a certain number of years of insurance age and 63 years of age in women. The current law has also not yet reached its goal in the transitional periods, which it has introduced as a very gradual period in increasing pension requirements. It is only in 2013, 2014 in certain provisions that this law now in force will finally come into force. We still believe that the current law solves the problem, so there is no need to solve it in such drastic changes. Well, now we have the Disability Pension Insurance Act under number two, the new law. The main issue is, of course, the retirement age, the number of years a woman or a man should have picked up at that time, now calls this marriage a retirement period in order to somehow have the right to a full pension, a man 43 years old, a woman 41 years old. At the same time, the law also sets age 65 for both men and women. Here is the first question of how to achieve these conditions: 65 years of age and 43 years of working age. For example, a man who served in the military studied for five years, at 65 years of age, he would get a maximum of 40 years of work and not 43 years. Where do you get those three years? The conditions laid down by the law as a condition must be realistic and must be such that they can be fulfilled with all due care and commitment by the citizen. This was also realized by the previous law 10 years ago, which knew that, for example, a man with a college education could not acquire such a working age by the age of 65 and introduced an added age, a recognised added age for study. Of course, gradually, one month a year. The following year, after the current law, 10 months of work per year would be recognised, according to a five-year study, that is to say a regular study with an added year, would mean 50 months, that is four years. And this was precisely because of the fact that a certain category of residents who, under a basic article, cannot meet the conditions for the law to allow them to still meet the conditions for full retirement. Thus, the current law recognized the added age for military service. We know that this generation, which will continue to enter the pension age or pension for the next 20 years, has served as an army during the previous Yugoslavia, and this has been at least one year of compulsory service in recent years. No one asked you whether you were going with pleasure or not, the state was not paying contributions to compulsory insurance, and now the minister is saying that the unpaid period cannot be included in the retirement period. Very nice, very fair, actually fair, but the state was in violation, did not pay the pension age or pension insurance for compulsory service of military service. And given that military service did not last normally – 40 hours a week but lasted 168 hours a week, 4 times more. In fact, one year after this key, we should recognize four years of retirement, from morning to evening or from morning to morning, as night work, guards, and the like. Or at least a beneficial time. No, no, no. Good. Let's drop it. It's a year. However, in those who studied, it means that, following the current law, they would be recognised, as I said, 10 months a year for a five-year study of 4 years. So those who, under the old law next year, meet the conditions for retirement will be added at 4 years of work at 4 years of age. And instead of the following year in February, for example, they will not be able to retire until 4 years later, that is 4 years later, or by extending working hours even 6 months a year only after 6 years. Six years, because at the same time a threshold for working age is also raised, namely 6 months a year after this law. This is said to be because they will not be admitted to their studies and because they will be extended their work-life requirement, they will not retire until six years from next year. Of course, here is the question of how it will be for the generation, when no one will retire from those jobs that require higher education, what this means for young graduates, for young graduates, six years will not be able to release these jobs. It is a question of whether this is a good way of rationalising. The law also dealt with the issue of how to give early retirement an opportunity in early retirement in an innovative way. It's possible to retire early, like, a year, two years, and so forth, but with a heavy malus. That, due to early retirement, 3% per year would be lower, of course, until 3% lower, for each year of early retirement, and at the same time, of course, there was not much to talk about, but that early retirement would not take into account the accumulated time. What does that mean? The accumulated time will not be taken into account and for each year the shorter working hours will be again less than 2 %. That is to say, for each year, you will have a five percent lower pension for the generous possibility of early retirement until your death. Of course, this is not a welcome offer for all those who will be overworked, who will be exhausted and retired early, which is an offer that is desirable, since at two years of age such an unfortunate person will have a 10% lower pension until death. Very interesting these so-called, callous, generous offers. Of course, it is also possible to reach a working age of up to 5 years, and you will be able to pay as much as you would have to pay with the current salary. I don't know if anyone's going to be so stupid that they're going to buy up this period that they're offering, because instead of getting 10,000 euros a year, they're going to bond and save, and they're going to get three to four times as much from this address as they did from their pension. Here is one of the following traps or very poor solutions, payment or the lowest pension base for those who pay themselves: for craftsmen, for independent entrepreneurs, they will have to pay as much as the tax administration determines their income or registers their income, but at least 60% of the average wage. That is to say, all those on minimum wages or even lower wages, such as minimum wages, will have to pay contributions as if they had 60% of the average wage. Last year, before last year, when we were solving the issue of the unemployed and when the government was somehow afraid of these high numbers of unemployed, an offer was made that by some means an individual could decide on a separate activity. And there were quite a few thousand cases like this, according to some data, about 15,000 who decided to do their own work. For a certain time, the government or the budget will pay them a minimum contribution, or some sum, which would be an incentive for independent activity. According to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, there are only a few cases that have actually succeeded or started their own activity. In fact, everyone else considered this time to be a time of survival, and also those with no income or minimum income will have to pay a contribution of 60% of the average wage. 60% of the average wage, if the average salary is EUR 1 000 480, is EUR 888 and the minimum wage is EUR 734. This is said to be 20% higher than the minimum wage. They're more taxed. It seems to us constitutionally controversial. We didn't make it with the amendments. Again, we have failed, and here we are gathering negative points about our attitude towards this law. The European Parliament resolution of October this year says that the minimum wage should be at least 60% of the average wage, but we wish it wasn't. We have 50% of the average wage. If this resolution had been implemented and the minimum wage had been fixed as at least 60% of the average wage, then the matter would have been resolved. But it's not, and it won't be for long, like that. The next thing that really bothers us is that our insurers still have no permanent ability to determine whether their employers are paying or not paying contributions. Attempts are made to find out through the Tax Administration, but all cases fail. In fact, there are very few cases where they find that their contributions have not been paid for months and months or for a year. For this reason, we are also looking at the amount of contributions to the pension fund from the individual insured and how much an account insurer can and when he can count on being able to retire, what kind of pension he is supposed to be, in order to interest the insurers, in order to raise working hours to actually count on taking advantage of this option of the country, where the State has to offer a favourable and inviting offer, we have proposed the establishment of an information personal account or an individual pension account which should be at least electronically accessible to every insurer. We have received an answer that this can be done quickly under the current technology and current conditions. But it's not like that. There's going to be some kind of birth certificate, but this isn't what we've suggested yet. Of course, we must note that there will gradually be a major problem with the employment of the elderly when the age of retirement is extended. The law provides for some incentives for those employers who will be willing to continue to employ older workers or even to re-employ those who lose their jobs during these years. However, we drew attention to the situation of young people and wanted to create incentives for employers to hire young people for an indefinite period of time. Otherwise, we have proposed for two years, and this is an important offer, because the employer is just turning around and acting as he thinks he will succeed in his business strategy as much as possible, and the incentive must also be appropriate. Also in the case of Revoz in New Town, the state has paid or promised to pay a few years of contributions for workers. And so Revoz came to New Town and now it works well. That's a good investment. For the employment of young people, we have proposed that in the first year of work, the budget would pay the employer's full contributions, which is 100%, in the second year 50%. Then the coalition reduced this to half, 50%-30%, which also states that it is not seductive, is not attractive, as the fixed-term employment also relieves the employer of other costs, particularly in that this burden, which the government or the budget would allow in the event of an indefinite period of employment, does not outweigh. In the case of fixed-term employment, the employer is not only free to forgive a worker without problems at any time or to extend his employment for a certain period of time, but there are also many other things that he is interested in being burdened with paying. Thus, this incentive is likely to be ineffective. However, I must say that the problem of temporary employment in Slovenia is great. Compared to 24 years of age, the proportion of these employees in Slovenia and the proportion in other countries in Europe: in the European Union, the average is 40%, which is high on average, 40% of young people in Europe are employed for a certain period of time, i.e. those who are employed; in Slovenia, this percentage is 66.6% and we are at the top. The second behind us is Poland with 62% and then rapidly falling percentages. Gentlemen, this is a serious problem. Not only will there be no job vacancy when it comes to the employment of students for six years, but there will be no serious incentive to work indefinitely. We also have the Small Work Act, and I don't know if we're still a social state. Finally, let me mention the question or comment of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has already drawn attention to the resolution on normative activities at first reading or on the working body. This resolution has been adopted by this Government. We were pleased that this resolution was adopted last year. This resolution says that in such laws as this one, there is a need to reach as broad a consensus as possible on social need and solutions. Of course, this was not, at least we did not notice, about the social partners. It also points to retroactive action and, in particular, by means of a resolution, the Legislative and Legal Service draws attention to the particularly sensitive issue of acquired and expected rights, which, for example, we are alerting under individual legal provisions, such as occupational pensions. With regard to studies and non-recognition of time for studies, the expected rights are drastically reduced, disregarded, and I think the Legislative and Legal Service has given a very strong warning on these matters. I hope that if the law is passed, people will find this matter quickly, which will be brought before the Constitutional Court, because that is not how we can go. Here the Law-Legal Service warns of the expected rights under this title that all those who calculated that they would be able to retire next year or the following years, given the added age for studies, were accounted for, believed in the law that was in force, believed in the rule of law, and now suddenly the cut-off state says, "No, because we were only joking". This is not in accordance with the rule of law. Legal and legal services also point to professional pensions. Ten years ago, savings were introduced for a professional pension instead of the so-called beneficiary period. This law also introduces or builds that, in fact, for those jobs where there are such high burdens that it is not possible to expect a worker to work in this job by 65 years of age, the employer must pay a certain contribution to the Occupational Pensions Fund and then, after a certain period, the worker has the right to retire until the occurrence of a regular retirement pension. We did not oppose this solution, but it is one of the systems that is supposed to be sustainable for such cases. In doing so, we have had a number of suggestions on how to better resolve this, how to define a list of hard jobs that have not been updated, and still have large jobs that are considered unjustifiablely to be difficult jobs. Many technologies have changed. Some jobs are also such that they should be recognised. It is a list that needs to be updated every year and every few years. These amendments of ours have not been accepted. It's the next question. The law provides in respect of this benified age or occupational pension that if the funds collected in the insured person’s personal account are sufficient to pay the occupational pension, then the occupational pension may be retired, then only then will he receive a professional pension. Once again: once he has fulfilled all the legal conditions, when he has worked for so many and many years in this so-called beneficiary job, a difficult job, he will be able to retire if the funds raised in his personal account are sufficient to pay his professional pension. Gentlemen, what does a worker know is whether the employer pays his pension bill for what he pays. Does the worker decide at what rate of contribution it is necessary to pay to his personal account for a professional pension in order to be able to receive this occupational pension? Does he decide? Can an employee decide? That's up to the state. And 10 years ago, the state set up a half-indecent contribution. And these people who have been in this account for 10 years, they certainly don't have enough money! And it's another Larry Fari. It's not gonna happen. And it's not the employee's decision, it's the state. And if the State determines that such a contribution and such a contribution must be paid by the employer if the State has made a mistake, if it has deliberately said too little, then the State must correct its error! This relationship, the attitude towards insurers at all levels, all of our comments can be concluded, is an unfair attitude towards certain categories of insurers. And there aren't many. It's not just about raising working age and age limits. This is an unfair approach to certain categories. On the issue of righteousness and injustice, of course, it must also be said that such a law, if it remains so, and obviously will, of course, we will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Zares Group – a new third-reading policy would not want to pay a debt on the importance of the adoption of this law on pension and disability insurance. It is one of the reforms that this coalition has committed itself to adopting and implementing in this mandate, not because this reform would be so desirable, but because it is so necessary. At least with regard to this urgency, at least sometimes in the debates when this law was passed, we agreed by all the debaters. In the light of the current cooperation and adoption of proposals or the proposal of this law in all previous proceedings in this assembly, it may be naive to expect that this law could be constructively supported by opposition parties and certain social partners. This would certainly be very good for the future of this country. Those whose more visible representatives have talked tirelessly and still say that this government is always dealing with itself, rather than taking measures in the light of the crisis that will ensure that this country is as sustainable a transition through this difficult period, and would also listen to the well-intentioned advice of all, might know that, in the case of this law, it is in fact what they wanted, even though I see that the objections are still great. This bill is a good proof that the Government knows exactly which things to do, that this country will better follow the rhythm of the global economy and development in general, and that there are many greater things like our internal political divisiveness, and that it depends on these things, too, on how some of our internal political divisiveness could be stopped and could be directed together towards the efforts of all of us, so that we can all be better and that, if you want, we can later have better quality back to the internal policy when we have at least the basic things "respected". We have adopted a lot of good proposals in this law. We have extended transitional periods, according to previous treatments, we have given up on parenthood, the male lobby, as my colleague would say, regarding military service. This law clearly sets out the employer's obligation to pay the social contributions of workers, which so far has been a cancer wound, such as Slovenian capitalism and another set of such things. Unfortunately, even today this law has been criticized, which not only misleads the Slovenian public, in fact threatens the existence of a system of Slovenian social model based on intergenerational solidarity. Just so that we can maintain intergenerational solidarity as the foundation of social cohesion in this country, the adoption of this law on pension and disability insurance is essential. In addition to the crisis, its urgency is highlighted by demographic indicators, social changes in the labour market, both globally and in Europe in particular, with an emphasis on highly worrying data for our country. The competent ministry has therefore courageously entered the reform, with a view at least 30 years ahead. Regrettably, in smoothing the edges and seeking compromises and consensus, we have achieved that a new debate on reform and a new reform will probably be necessary, even if some believe that radical reform will be adopted within 10 to 15 years. And any postponement of changes, and precisely as proposed by this novel of the pension law, precisely such changes – difficult and unloved but urgent, will be so much more difficult for all future generations of pensioners, politicians and citizens in general. At the first reading of this law, my fellow Member, the distinguished President of the National Assembly, Dr Gantar, said that the current change was for today and for the future. The fact is that there are global changes in the direction of ending the three-part learning age in youth, active years in the mature years of the 25th to 60th years, followed by a safe age. In modern society, things are intertwining, lifelong learning, which, at the end of the day, lead us to a safe and active age. It is probably clear to us all that the global economy is a game, and with this reform we are making the rules of this competition, at least for our competitors, and in this case we are all part of the same team, we are making these rules fair, as are the other teams we are playing with. If that's not the case, I'm sure our team's best players will rather go play another team because there are rules that are clearer, fairer, more decent. Without good players, the team can beautified by such a group spirit that our team is likely to have, at least if we judge by politics, we cannot be attributed. In short, even with this group spirit, it is not possible to make up for everything, so it is essential that we take this responsible step and adopt a reform that will evenly shift the burdens of this society and enable those who want, who are able to create, and that they will create at home and that we will all have something of it. Responsibility is not only on the coalition, but also on the opposition to adopt or approve this law. There is no room here for political calculations anymore, it is simply a responsibility that we have towards citizens and citizens and courage that goes beyond political and other divisions, because these political calculations that we have witnessed are based on demagost populism statements without arguments. These statements are more lukewarm than Swiss cheese, since we were already at the Swiss model. I know that the law is extensive that it has more than 400 articles, that it can therefore be difficult to read, that it is therefore difficult to understand among ourselves complementary articles that regulate such and other specific, sometimes even isolated, case, but it is unacceptable that after three readings of this law we can still hear of this speaker lying that this law will extend the working time of a person for six years at the time of its adoption, and this is repeated as if this law did not contain transitional periods as if it did not contain such and other reliefs. I claim that the team at the Ministry has prepared it well and effectively, that even when we received it in all three proceedings, we have participated constructively and fruitfully, which of the speakers for this speech has also been acknowledged by God, and that the law, as it is now in the third reading before us, is the best compromise that this society can accept. However, it must be accepted because the current system or pension reform of 2000 can no longer guarantee the sustainability of the system, it cannot stop the decline in the level of pensions, as it puts many pensioners at the threshold of poverty today, and it must be added that poverty is not defined today, in my opinion, by income, but by ownership, housing or immovable. And in some cases it is both that people have no real estate and no housing and no income, in their case of pensions, fall. With this change, we want to introduce more solidarity between generations. For example, the proposal provides for the payment of contributions from each work carried out. And I hope that today, whether we are members of this or that generation or this or that political option, we will be able to be so brave and responsible that we will confirm this content of the law and thus ensure further intergenerational solidarity in this country and society. If this is not the case, intergenerational solidarity and, as a result, within the country's generational non-solidarity will be only an institution of succession. So it will be a country that will allow only and only some, not all, and those who will be able to do so will not necessarily be the most capable, even if they are able, as has already been said, to go and prove it to others, because it will be more appreciated there. This is an irreparable damage that this society and this country cannot afford. In the absence of a reform that, as I said, will evenly divide the burdens, at least the active part of this company will stop trying to create and if the active part does not create anything, then there will be nothing left to share. Today we can discuss in a long and broad way how unfair the sharing of goods in this society is, if we do not go in the direction that this reform also points out, then after 10, 15, 20, 30 years we will no longer have to discuss injustice of any kind of division, because nothing will be shared, everything will be divided, but it will not be created, but who will be able to enjoy what rarely has anyone. Anthropology is aware of the example of a Masai society, which has been highly gerontologically hierarchically organised. The old men had the power to make decisions in it, but the young fell cows and fought. Up to 30. For 40 years a man could only be a warrior, then he could marry, of course, more women, because the woman was in abundance, the whole generation of men had no partners, because they were not allowed to have them, and life was beautiful and beautiful for this generation since the 40th. After a certain period of time, the younger generation, as it were, made a film and placed things in their places. That's cruel. What's next? It follows that certain knowledge, economic and other, from the older generation to the younger generation has not been transferred and that the whole society has deteriorated as a result. I don't want anything like this to happen in our society. I want knowledge to be passed on from generation to generation and that, after all, every next generation will also be allowed to assume the responsibility it must take on time. And I understand that today some say that the retired generation is even more under pressure today, because it must also care for all other generations. Maybe she doesn't have to. Maybe we should give all generations a chance to get on their feet, and even later we could trust all future generations to care for older generations when they can't. At that time, when you decided on your own way to the plebiscite by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, you were also addressed to this decision by a poster on which two palms were drawn. where there were two baby legs. And it said, "There is nothing to be afraid of for four million workers. In the debate on this pension reform, I doubt that all these hands are really that good, and I doubt they know who they are doing it for, what they're doing. If they do this for those little kids' feet that they've also talked them into taking the path they've decided to take, then I doubt they're trying in the right direction. Those scissors are now 20 years old, at least if not anymore, and it is necessary to ask what this world offers them and what burdens await them, whether these scissors should be given anywhere or not, on whose behalf and for whom, at that time, the full-year citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have decided on the way you are, and for which we are all here today. In this light, it seems good for us all to make responsible decisions together on the solutions that this pension law brings, that we are not only thinking in the short term, but in the long term, because it is one of the laws that is certainly one of the longer-term ones that we will adopt in this mandate. I would very much like him to be supported by a large majority of parliament, like the Really New Policy Group of the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Get the Flower of Zalokar Orazem ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! If I am discussing pension reform in the third place, I have to ask myself why I will vote for it. I am shaping my position on the basis of the behaviour that failure to implement the pension reform or the adoption of DeSUS's proposal will result in a country's credit rating decline, which will require higher taxes and contributions. And if I add to that an invitation to stop paying taxes, then I don't even know where we're going to be taking the money. The fall in Slovenia's ratings will result in a more expensive debt for new loans with higher interest rates for the country, municipalities, businesses and people. And that is also why lower wages, higher unemployment, lower economic growth and consequently lower pensions. It is said that rational reasoning is one that speaks in favour of the idea that pension reform must be adopted. That the proposed pension reform is aimed at ensuring decent pensions and ensuring the financial sustainability of the pension system, it is also true, and I think that this is already a widely accepted opinion in our society. Although I think it might be better not to accept some of our favorite conditions in order to achieve our objectives, it seems to me that the social consensus is the one that requires us to accept what we have adopted before this third reading and what some amendments will also change. Of course, I only predict support for those amendments that are coalitionly coordinated. As I watched the predictions of the population movement, perhaps someone my age seems to be very far away from 2050. But let's think, someone born in 2000 will have perhaps 30 years of working time behind him, and what will happen then will be very important to him. We therefore decide for a large part of the population on very, very decisive matters. If we look at the age dependency ratio, the population dependency between the ages of 15 and 64 and the age of 64 is now 24%. In 2050 it will be almost 60%. It is said that the current 70% of the active population will then be able to be set against only 55% of the active population. These are the numbers that must concern everyone who wants to think about where pension reform is taking us and whether it is possible to sit on all the populist claims and stories – indeed some of the stories that we have heard here were just stories – to convince and justify their rejection and not taking responsibility for pension reform. I think that no matter what part of the political option or the political spectrum we are on, we should take responsibility for what lies ahead. I will not deal with the things that have been said so many times and are related to age and working age and to the consideration of pensions, but I want to say that this proposal of the law has essentially saved what is the difference between the age pension at 65 and the conditions for retirement for those who entered into work early, this is settled. Then it must be said that this law takes into account the following: 1. 2011 all legally calculated contributions during the insurance period. This is the elimination of this problem that we are facing. If someone is afraid that because the employer has not paid, it will not be counted during the insurance period, this is resolved by this proposal of the law. It is also a matter of taking into account the remuneration resulting from the rules. They are counted as having a full wage at that time by an individual. It is also those measures that encourage employers to work indefinitely for young people, while at the same time it must be said that they are stimulated by older workers. In just two moments, I proved how the law was gradually changed and how those things that were most frequently mentioned as a problem were taken into account. There is more than one way to improve the proposed law. I think it is a great responsibility for us to support this law, but at the same time I hope that the State Council will also accept its part of the responsibility, and I hope that at least in this case we can avoid the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u21	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin by saying that I myself personally realize that pension reform is urgently needed at this time and now for the current generation of pensioners as well as for the future. However, we must understand that some political parties are more committed to a particular group of citizens. This is not the case with DeSUS that we are representatives of pensioners, as some say. Today, it is difficult to identify and say that you are a representative of someone, especially in larger groups such as retirement. I must say that we do not have a clear decision in our parliamentary group on how we will vote today. It is more likely that we will be against this law primarily for reasons — of course, if something important and big does not happen — because we have our own programme and it clearly and concretely states what we are going to do. At the very beginning, we have committed the adoption of the law to the coordination of pensions. It was not until the last time we held a fig in our pocket, but at the beginning, when we started discussing the matter, it clearly and loudly stated what we wanted or how we wanted the law to be adopted and the pensions to be reconciled. Pensioners already contributed in 2009 and 2010. We demand that coordination remain at 50%. The government has offered one quarter. If we had 50% of pension coordination, the country would need €32 million. She's going to spend 10 million euros on a single ticket. I don't think it's a question that, despite this difficult situation in the country, we wouldn't find this money, but it's a bigger problem in the agreement that this government has agreed with the Struckle Union to coordinate public sector wages as well as pensions. However, we all know that the country needs 300 million to coordinate public sector wages. And that's the key question. In this matter, we must not forget that in the public sector, there is an average salary of EUR 1000 220 and that this is not realistic compared to pensions of EUR 576 on average. Up to €500, 254 pensioners are receiving pensions with us, which is 35.6%. The poverty threshold is calculated in Slovenia at EUR 562. And who, then, lives below the threshold of poverty? I think the answer is in the palm of your hand. The former social property, which we have talked about, has been strictly designed in 10% for the coordination of pensions. You know, it doesn't have to go far back when we talked about this law in coalition coordination, and apparently, in Article 6, if I'm not mistaken, things are defined. We all argued at the time that this money would be used to coordinate pensions. No one in that sitting room spoke differently — not once, but repeatedly. The funds were donated by Kad in the amount of 100 million. We would have spent 32 million on coordination for one year. We know there's no money in the country, but if you strictly intend to harmonise it with the law, then that money has to stay and not be used for other purposes. I'm not going to talk about coordinating and rewinding the new formula 40 : 60 and 60 : 40 without our presence. The move that happened back then wasn't a good one. That's not how politics can be built. There must be mutual trust between coalition partners. But it wasn't like that, and I'm judging her personally. It's a gem supplement. Yes and no. The State must ensure that those on the verge of survival who do not have the means of subsistence for their basic living needs are provided. But they're not just pensioners. There are also social threats and many other workers have low incomes. Your Honor, there is still a possibility. The DeSUS Group tabled article 429 of the amendment law, which amends the intervention law. Instead of 25%, we propose that the seventh paragraph of Article 430 should be deleted, which is the formula I mentioned earlier, 60:40 not to be valid or not in force until 2015, but that the formula 70:30 should be in force as of 2011. Then the Members of the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of this law. Otherwise, because of the already mentioned views of the parliamentary group as well as the DeSUS parties, we will not be able to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u23	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We all agree in some way that pension reform is necessary, but most also agree that it must be acceptable for everyone, both for those who will work tomorrow, for those who want to retire within a month or a year and live a decent life, and for those who are already retired. Reform offers a longer working and old age, allows early retirement and the possibility of acquiring military, as this generously offers us a gentler sex, up to two-thirds of the ransom. This right, I must say, has already been possible, so we are not now offered an improved option. It is offered to take account of the study and to deduct military service from age. A deduction and consideration of children is offered and in some ways there is also a small job involved in the content, which is intended to save both the pensioner, the student and the unemployed from poverty and to make it possible for employers to benefit from it. All this and more offers pension reform, but it does not agree with the whole opposition, part of the coalition, unions, workers, young people and pensioners. For whom, then, is reform acceptable? Apparently only the Slovenian government, which says that we have been doing well so far, but apparently they do not know that most residents barely spend a month and that they are getting more expensive from day to day. So I wonder where we'll be when the government finds out people are going bad. If we want the reform to be good, we need to listen to everyone. It is too small to be adopted in Parliament by a simple majority, as it will then experience an epilogue at the referendum, which should not be the practice of a government that is not willing to negotiate. A two-thirds majority in Parliament would seal such an important act that reform is good and acceptable; everything else is just an irresponsible work of the Government and Parliament. The non-payment of contributions to the pension fund and the systematic dismissal of workers and the abolition of jobs are obviously not for the benefit of the pension fund and the full reform. I believe that it is imperative to regulate laws that are financially linked to both the pension fund and the entire budget, in particular to regulate payment non-discipline. There have been many discussions both on the reform proposal and on the amendments tabled, so that we will not hear anything new today, but will be convinced and repeated in a non-productive manner, we will probably not harmonise. Persuading a certain person does not seem to be an appropriate time if we already know that the story will not end in the National Assembly. We can no longer plead for recession, but it will be necessary to recognise the inability to save the country from the crisis of those who have accepted this responsibility. While pension reform is necessary and necessary for the sustainability of the pension fund, it is fueled exclusively by paid contributions from all employees. There will be more employees, fewer problems with the payment and the level of pensions that are expected to rise with wage increases. Therefore, all policies must be built on employment, i.e. reducing unemployment and intergenerational solidarity. Economists are skeptical about reforms and point out that there is too little to look at results and that the summit itself is too focused on populism, which brings nothing good to citizens and that it is only political marketing that will not have a serious impact. The excessive public consumption and the inability to meet the economic constraints facing the Slovenian economy, the fall in GDP in last year by 8.1% should sober up the government facing reality, but the government is not aware of this. However, the intervention law interferes with the most vulnerable social groups, which mainly affect pensioners and recipients of social transfers and generally all those who are at a minimum for survival. The applicant is also building on pension reform if measures are not taken, as proposed, financial inefficiencies and the extent of the rights of insurers will occur and will have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. An extension of the retirement age and an increase in effective working hours is certainly not going to work for young people who are not getting a job right now. It only works for those who are looking for work after 30 years of age. And why then? Because the system forced them to fill the time they waited for the job with a study. Surely, such ones will never work 40 years or more as envisaged in the reform, but will retire old age. We are already finding that people on average retire at 33 years of effective working age and that their working hours are increased by 10 years by a clearer law. What do you need this for? Or is it just because of the smallpox that the state is going to make a profit? It is certainly not the workers who are responsible for the impoverished pension funds, but the system that allowed the cash payments to be made in the last 15 years to be less than €6 billion. In 1996, the Government agreed to reduce employers' contributions from 15.5% to 8.85%. There were never any employees of these exemptions, as they still had to pay 15% of their salary. This resulted in the filling of employers’ pockets and the poverty of the pension fund. Thus, between 1995 and 2008, workers paid €16.4 billion for their pensions and only €10 billion for their employers. It is obvious that the reform has taken place precisely because of this reckless move of the country, which will now have to be paid back by workers and pensioners, which is another proof that capital is forcing the country, but also blindly following it. The country has left up to €8.2 billion to economists, from managers' acquisitions, where banks participated for up to €1.6 billion and €186 million, which companies owe to unpaid contributions and the already mentioned €6 billion, totalling €8.2 billion. Where did this money end up? It's in the directors' pockets. Who are these people? Old socialist directors and politicians who have become new capitalists overnight who have never been able to manage businesses, not before and not today. But they always knew how to take care of their pocket and the friends who made it possible for them to do so. Therefore, as proposed, I cannot accept the reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u25	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Mr. Ivan Grill's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u26	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. Unfortunately, I cannot support pension reform as designed. My colleague Franz Žnidaršič properly presented the dilemmas, including our discussions and reflections on the vote itself. We have been quite united here with regard to our concerns and comments, and we will not be united in the vote itself. I'm sorry, I'm saying. The reform did not go in the right direction and even in the last period we did not approach the amendments because we have found that we cannot fundamentally change this concept with the amendments. This concept is based on the little ones, and this is the wrong approach. Based on sanctions for those who may not be able to work after 40 years and somehow force them to work longer than three, four, five, or even more, or, as a result, to retire prematurely. Analyses already say today that the number of workers who will retire early shows the events of the last months at the Department of Pension and Disability Insurance counter, compared to last year's period, significantly higher. There will be more who want to retire before this law is passed. Well, early retirement will be increasing. This means that the level of pension income for people will continue to decline and decrease. All the coordination models submitted so far have been calculated, sometimes hard to calculate. The actual real drop in pensions for the average wage was calculated. Of course, we are aware that we are all aware that we cannot have a high pension in difficult situations, but that some kind of commitment is needed. We cannot agree to any such or alone, I speak for myself, on such a model of coordination, which will increase the gap between the average wage and the average pension. Pensions have come to a level where we can no longer reduce them when we have to fix this ratio between the average wage and the pension. My main comment on the law is that we must not sanction those who are under today's conditions, for example, for a man of 40 years of retirement and 60 years of age, that we should not sanction them, but that we should stimulate those who can work to actually step up and actually work actively in the coming years. It's the only right approach. With some changes to this existing law in the bonus segment, the desired effects could be achieved in financial terms, although not sufficient, but with other parallel measures that would take place, they could actually fill in the missing funds in the pension register. I'll just count a few of these measures. Look. Social security contributions, much has already been said, are not paid as they should after two years of warning. That's one segment. The second segment is insufficient measures in black employment, persecution of black employment. Measures against the grey economy, we've done too little here. All of us today, so some of us before me, have been talking about the late entry into pension insurance. They're not very rare 30-year-olds and 30-year-olds who don't have a retirement age or a couple of years of that. We've also heard what it's like to work for an indefinite period of time, we're really at the top here. At the summit in terms of fixed-term employment and the state does not find appropriate measures, although labour legislation is extremely strict when it comes to fixed-term employment. This would be an exception if all the criteria in the Labour Relations Act were met. This exception is violated in such a mass way that it becomes a rule. Late integration into the working relationship. If only in this segment the country had been successful, it could solve a number of the problems that we are talking about today. I could do the same, and I'll leave some time with my colleagues, other areas. Today, professional pensions have also been mentioned, and working hours have been earned. Why did we go to this parole system? If there's money, if there's funds, it'll be, if there's not, it won't be. This is the right that should be guaranteed. In all these reforms, even in the Small Work Act, I am increasingly impressed by the feeling that small countries are really not sovereign. The pressures of the OECD International Financial Fund, for example, on small work, which recommends to these transition countries the form of short-term flexible employment, employment, which is also highly acceptable to employers. These are the instructions we receive abroad, and we follow them faithfully. They're not just dispatches. There are clear documents that follow them, which ultimately go to the detriment of workers, employees and even employees. I really wonder how much more sovereign we are in this pursuit and how many countries are really protecting those who are already on the brink of existence. And I'm going to get the label of some social radical or demagogue again, but that's what statistics say. Pensions should not be reduced and reduced. And these measures are, I am also aware that, in the absence of a pension reform, the situation of pensioners could also deteriorate. That is true, but let us move on in a different way, and if there is a possible rejection of this reform, let us consider on different grounds how to actually prolong people's work without punishing those who cannot work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u27	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Mr. Franco Juri will be next. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Earlier, one of the coalition members said in his debate that the adoption of this law, this pension reform, is also the responsibility of the opposition. I agree that the opposition here too would contribute its voice if it were a modern law, a just law that would bring exactly those expected goals in order to stabilise this treasury so that it would not do any new injustices and that this would be a future perspective. Unfortunately, none of this law does. We share many fine words that it is a law that has intergenerational solidarity, that it is a law that will stabilise the pension register, that will even raise pensions and even finesse. If we expose these nice words, we can find out simple things. This law will cause new injustices. We will work longer, and we will have smaller pensions, of course those we will or will await. That's what it's all about. Talk about intergenerational solidarity. Yeah, how long can we talk about this?Oh, my God! At this point, this intergenerational solidarity means – those who are now active in the labour market will work longer so that those who enjoy or earn a pension will receive it at all. But I'm afraid that in five years' time, at the latest 10 years from now, we'll be witnessing the new marriage again of new intergenerational solidarity. It means that work time will have to be renewed, even for smaller pensions and so on. Until when, a respected coalition, a respected government, do you expect people, young people, to be willing to listen and even be prepared to support intergenerational solidarity, always to their detriment? I'm afraid it won't be that long. As I said, this marriage only takes, causes new injustices and gives absolutely nothing. The term "reform" is an interesting expression, but under reform, we people imagine that something improves to update something, and in particular that we can expect some improvements on the basis of some reforms. But in this marriage, this reform actually doesn't bring any of it. I would expect this law to slightly rationalise the functioning of the pension fund, so that the processes of the employees, which certainly represent a good part of the costs of the pension fund, in which the active population contributes in order to rationalise in this way. I would expect that with such a package of laws, not only by trying to secure a greater flow of money into the pension register. It means that those of those who are now evading in our holed legislation avoid paying contributions, those who are working in black – I am appalled at the fact that today we have almost €10 billion in the black market or those who are working in black, that is, as much as the state budget – we do not know how to collect the money that lies there. But we obviously move around, look through our fingers, and have no will, or have no will, knowledge, or interest to collect money where it is. I would expect that this law will also bring about the cleansing of this pension fund. We know that a number of supplements are being paid, contributions that do not fall within those rights that people pay for their work. It means that it is drained, that the empty ones are unfair, unfair for those who also contribute in cash. As I said, this reform is not basically any reform, a bunch of beautiful words wrapped in cellophane with those terms: intergenerational solidarity, we will stabilise the cash register, we will make sure that pensions are higher and so on. None of it is. Once again, in short, we will work longer, we will have lower pensions, those we will or will wait for, and those who are now in retirement do not expect any real pension to change in any way. If we are not at the part where we have to create inflows in the pension register, take a step forward, all other empty words are empty without believing in them. This law undermines young families to decide for more than one child or to have two, three, four to correct the demographic picture in Slovenia. This is the step forward that we will have people who will also work, who will contribute to the cash register. Now we're just gonna snore, take rights, and that's not gonna work forever. I don't want to explain now, because I don't have time for all those solutions in there that are certainly unconstitutional, I hope, I really hope, and I want the Constitutional Court to play here the role that it should have to finally judge those cases that are unconstitutional. I fear that the government's announcement, which awaits a referendum in advance and that the Constitutional Court will save their skin to prohibit this referendum, will fail again. The Constitutional Court prefers to examine this law, to identify a number of non-constitutional solutions that are in it and to be repealed by the Constitutional Court. That would be the right way to go. So that I cannot under no circumstances support this law alone, even if those amendments that are proposed to stabilise at least a few things, but far away this law is not the solution that would truly create intergenerational solidarity, but above all stabilize the pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u29	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Mr. Miran Potč will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! We are ahead of a major structural reform, ahead of one of the most important reforms that have already sparked many expectations, debates, even disappointments, and have heard a lot of comments at this stage. On the one hand, some argue that we are abolishing one of the pillars of the social state through this pension reform. On the other hand, if we carefully examine this proposal for pension reform, we see that it is not the opposite. To preserve the social state in the area of pensions, a sustainable system of pension finance needs to be established and ensured. If we do not achieve this, we will be faced with the collapse of this cash register in a few years and a situation where other projects will start and other ideas will emerge with how to save the pension system. We can leave the European social state in a few years and focus on finding new or American recipes. Since we do not want to do this, we need to ask ourselves some key questions and we must take full responsibility as Members for the key question of how to proceed. Today we have the opportunity to negotiate and to harmonise in the widest possible circle of civil society policy, an interested public law that meets these expectations. At first, I was very skeptical myself. I understand some union objections. As a 54-year-old, I belong to that generation that has the temptation to maintain the current system, because in a few years, I could go into a comfortable retirement without bleaching my head and creating new existential problems. But if we're responsible, we can't think like this. We need to think about intergenerational solidarity, how to maintain this system, this complex system of intergenerational solidarity, which allows the pension fund to be sustainable, so that we can continue with this pillar of the social state in the future. There is no doubt that in a very multi-layered debate that took place earlier during the proceedings themselves, which is still taking place today in this Chamber, the Government and the Minister have taken into account many comments, many demands and many amendments, changes that substantially humanise the law and take into account the expectations of those categories of social groups that are always most affected by change. These changes will not affect the weakest. These changes will even provide greater security for the weak. And that is the key point that we must take into account in this regard. But if we go back to the political dimension of today's debate and today's vote, it must be self-critically acknowledged that, at this point, the early referendum also proves this, this coalition and this government have failed to provide the necessary consensus for projects of national importance and not only have a unique mark. They don't just have one ideological political or party color. The pension reform is a reform that everyone, including the next government, should implement. The opposition is very well aware of this and expects this reform to go through, so that this government will suffer as much damage as possible, but every next government wants this reform to be brought to its senses so that it does not have to deal with these issues. Of course, now the opposition is in a very calm position, it is observing, it is expecting, and I am very pleased that part of the opposition has taken on this issue with great responsibility. I'm talking about colleagues from the Slovenian Human Party. It seems to me that today they have given some encouraging, I would say, national- and national-oriented incentives and comments. I hope that by the end of this meeting it will be possible to harmonise and involve as many Members as possible, including from the opposition, in this national project. I am also pleased that colleague Magajna, who is opposed to this law, has acknowledged that the situation of pensioners, if not adopted by this law, may be worse; at some point he said that this danger exists, even though he thinks that we should solve it differently. But the fact is, this law saves and improves pensioners in the long run. In doing so, the government must be aware of something, as well as the government coalition: that we cannot expect people to think only about the interests and interests of grandchildren at this time, of course, young people expect it more than older ones. But citizens expect to receive some answers and improvements from this government in these crisis situations immediately, today and here. So the question is whether this law offers an improvement in the situation. To a certain extent, I think it offers. In some segments, however, citizens, particularly older citizens, are still concerned. Therefore, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party not to touch state pensions is, at least, very meaningful to me. And I hope that by the end of this debate we will know how to coordinate on this. It is 15,000 citizens who do not constitute such an impossible investment in the security of one segment of the population. So, I express my support for this kind of thinking, and I hope that we will continue to talk about it during the day and that we will know how to coordinate about it. With regard to the other amendments, well, I would also be interested in a 100% recognition of the military deadline, but if that means too much burden, I think it is possible to give in to this amendment sooner. And here it can also be reconciled with a dose of reason. Regardless of what we have proposed and supported, I think we need to take a responsible approach, because the law already offers significantly better conditions than the conditions laid down in the previous or current law. But there is something I would like to point out that I think is crucial for us to convince the public that we will not again experience the crumbs of various referendums. In order to be able to vote responsibly on such an important law and such a significant investment in the future, it must be made clear that this law finally establishes financial discipline even within the context of the payment of contributions. After this law, it will no longer be possible to postpone payment of contributions. Is this sufficient to explain that we are going to a better time, that this government, however, takes into account all the mistakes of the past? I think that's enough when we're talking about this marriage. It is not enough, however, to think about the specific issues of our workers, workers, citizens and citizens, when we think about the difficulties and justified demands of the workers of the new Mercura, who have been played on the basis of delays, non-payment of contributions and, of course, expect a just solution today. This solution is offered by a group of members of this national assembly with an authentic interpretation of the law. I hope and expect that, particularly in the coalition, we will be able to collect 23 signatures to respond to these workers next week and to prove that this Government is serious not only with pension reform but also with the resolution and just resolution of the injustices of the past. If we have taken the deletion of wrongs seriously, let us also take seriously the removal of the wrongs of workers and workers. We have a nice opportunity next week to adopt an authentic explanation of the law governing the payment of compulsory contributions and of those holidays and the injustices that have arisen due to the failure to pay and the delay granted by the State. So, let the state now send a clear message to the public that this is no longer a joke. Only by doing so will we gain the trust that we have unfortunately lost on several occasions because we have not been able to communicate good aspects of laws that are well - intentioned. The good intentions of the opposition cannot be disputed either, but if we add some concrete gestures to this, we will be more credible, more reliable and we will gain not only the votes and support of some of our opposition colleagues, I would also like DeSUS to leave its demogos games and blackmail and realize the importance of this new approach that we can understand in this law in order to finally harmonise it, regardless of customer affiliation, and we are aware that we represent not only one narrower category of citizens here, but we are obliged to offer answers to most of these citizens and society in full. I propose and my support for this law will depend on the will to be marked today by the Government and by the coalition to resolve still open issues and open injustices from the past. If we reach an agreement on these issues, I think that support for this law is not problematic, and even if there is a veto, we will fight here for the law to go forward. We will also perform more confidently at a possible referendum if we actually give people the answers they expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u31	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Mr. Mag will be next. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State! I will support the bill and those amendments for which the Government, Minister and Government will find that they are still ensuring the achievement of the objectives set by the reform. Today, I have not heard anyone who would not, among other things, perhaps even in the introduction, point out that it is aware that reform of the pension system is necessary. And that it is urgent as soon as possible, and then we will be, or something, stressed that we will support it, and others have been looking for reasons why, despite the need, you are not in a position to support this reform. I would like to express my position and my opinion. Let us be aware that we are responsible not only for the implementation of this reform in the government coalition, but that you are also responsible for the opposition parliamentary groups. If not today, you will be in your indisputable conclusion that reform is necessary, responsible for reform in six months, a year or more. At that time, as all professions ensure, under significantly more difficult conditions. That is why we are not only talking today about whether each of us is satisfied or whether he has a specific interest, once a military, once a study year, once a state pension, once a way of coordinating pensions, but whether reform as a whole ensures that we will maintain intergenerational solidarity and that all the different groups concerned by the reform will be satisfied with approximately the same situation. However, we all know that this reform concerns not only the current pensioners, that it will not only concern those who are waiting for them to go directly to retirement in the next few years and who are said to have a different, greater or smaller benefit, and will have to wait for a year or more for a pension, but also those who are only now entering work and who are most urgently needed to enjoy the intergenerational solidarity that we provide through the reform after 10, 20, 30, 40 years. To claim that the reform has not achieved significant changes from day one to day is simply an untruth. Much has been done to find the necessary solidarity in order to ensure that the necessary consensus is also sought between the parties and between the social partners, but it is possible to agree, ladies and gentlemen, when it is ready to agree not only on the one hand, but also on the other hand, where the objectives we wish to achieve together are also ensured by other partners. Many times it can be said that there was no such agreement on the part of others. I would strongly like to be here today in the National Assembly by each of us who will speak, and especially in public, able to tell the facts which are essential to the content of this reform. Mr Svetlik said the most important thing in the first place. Let us ensure that these facts are present, that we do not speak and intimidate people with things that are simply not true. Let us be aware if we do not today and in the coming days ensure that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is adopted, we will all, not only the current ruling coalition, are in great difficulty, because we will have to approach new changes in a short time, which will be much more difficult, difficult and for which consensus will be even more difficult to achieve than today, when we have actually achieved, I am simplifying a little bit, 90 and more per cent consensus, and only with each one of us is missing a little bit to say yes. Let us forget those trifles and reach a consensus that, as you claim, will be much more than just a coalition and some other voice, but to which Members and Members will also give their positive attitude, at least individuals, if not an opposition party group, knowing that this opposition, which says that the current government should not rule for long, is waiting for the same task tomorrow. I don't know if she'll be able to do it more successfully and easier than the current coalition. Let us not only think about our own interest and the interest of a group of people, but at the very least that in the field of pension and disability legislation we would be subject to this coalition, because this is also a matter for us, especially for all citizens and citizens concerned by the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u33	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Mr. Marian Krizman will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to say what I personally mean. What I think needs to be said today, not what many in this country probably want to hear from me. I think that's why we're politicians here in this National Assembly, even because or especially to tell people what we have to tell them, not what people want us to hear. Above all, we are here to sober up, get real, and become rational. Much more rational than we've been before. This is true for us in the opposition, and much more so for you in the coalition to get real, to be sober, to strain your species and start working for the good of this country. You've become glamorous in power, including through some strange things. Now, with my own, I will say, incompetence, inoperability, irresponsibleness, some among you, keep this country in check. I'm personally disappointed in this government, and I can tell you that you may be ashamed. You may be ashamed. I am disappointed that many things could not be settled. We have proposed many things in the opposition. I'm not saying everything was fine. It is likely that some matter was also appropriate for it to be adopted. We talked a lot about saving. Savings in order to relieve the economy on the other hand. We talked about lowering the costs of public administration, drawing on European money. Today, I will also ask the President of the Government what will happen if we draw on European money. The Pomur law, with one million euros, we will finance the development network research in Pomurje. We will give a million euros to a company from Ljubljana in Pomour to explore the development network or development institutes and then we will reorganise them tomorrow or whatever. Where's the state of law? You could count as much as you want. It would be right, Your Honor, to consider in the future what laws you bring to this National Assembly. I think we have at least one such law today, but there were many that are unnecessary, which primarily divide us and do nothing in the direction of trying to build things together in some way. It's a family code. It's unnecessary. And it stands because there is no consensus because there is no consensus. It may also be necessary to consider whether it is wise to bring into this National Assembly any other laws that are foretold. [[adverts from benches]] Mr. Brultz, when you speak, I'll be quiet. [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u35	Please allow the debater to speak to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u36	I personally believe that this pension reform must be adopted. It's about our children. It's about us who are here. It is workers and workers, and it is the least of them, and this needs to be made clear by those who are already retired. The ratio of employees and pensioners in this country is approximately 1.6 at the moment. So 1.6 workers are currently working for one pensioner. Mr. Janez Malačič wrote very nicely in one of the Saturday’s annexes that in Europe, about which we are talking so much, this ratio is from 3 to 4. This means that three or four employees work for one pensioner. At the same time, he said that demographics in our country are unfortunately the same as they are. Of course, we are all responsible for the demographics that it is. And the trends that are show us that in 2040 one employee will work for one pensioner. These are cruel numbers, a cruel reality. And there's no horrendous math. This is a simple operation plus and minus, neither multiplication nor division are taken into account, let alone square or root. We have three options. I said in the first reading debate that we have three options. To raise the contribution rates in the economy. I don't know if there's a hero here who can do that. On the contrary, the contribution rates and the economy need to be unloaded. So this option is off. The second option is to reduce pensions. Is there a guy like that who's ready or who's hoping to do it? He's gone, and it would be wrong. By the way, the Slovenian People's Party was against the freezing of pensions. And the third option is to imprison retirement. This is what this pension reform is doing. Of course, we can now talk about details up and down here, but generally speaking, we need to stifle retirement or slowly start reducing the number of pensioners. At this point, it's going from the state treasury to a pension fund of about 300. We're going to say 13% given that we're going to have ten billion expenses. It will be obvious in the future that if we do nothing, of course there will be more. I wonder who's going to pay this bill in the future? Who are we gonna give this bill to? This account will pay the Slovenian economy. No one else. The Slovenian economy will pay this bill. In other words. How will we compete with other European countries, given that in other European countries four employees work for one pensioner and one of us will work for one pensioner? How are we gonna put this account together? How are we going to build this competitiveness? I see no possibility here, as if we simply accept this pension reform. I'm not saying she's the best. A lot of things could have been different. At this point, when we are halfway through the mandate, if we refuse this pension reform, we lose at least one mandate to achieve a new pension reform. This means that two years of this government's remaining mandate and at least one year of the new government's mandate, which will have to prepare a new pension reform, will go through all the procedure it is. We will have a new pension reform on the table in four years. I hope you are monitoring what is happening in Europe, what is happening in the world. That Greece has fallen, that Ireland is falling, that another European country is likely to fall. I am skeptical of what will happen in the future with our common currency, but I do not want to be dramatic, but this is a real situation. I do not think that Europe is in a position to stabilise if Portugal, Spain, Italy and anyone else happens. And to enter with such public finances as at this moment, in such uncertain times, is simply irresponsible of all of us sitting here. We've been constructive about this project all along, as we predicted two years ago. We proposed a few proposals, we were disappointed because, under some of the suggestions of the Slovenian People's Party, a coalition was signed in the first or second reading. We were disappointed because it would be fair, fair and fair that if a political party proposes something and it is accepted that under these proposals it is also a signed party that has proposed it. Today we are proposing a state pension because it seems unfair to me that we will simply take it away from those 15,000 people who receive 180 euros or as much as we already do. It's not fair, it's unfair. And I hope that you will be able to achieve such political wisdom that you accept this amendment. We are prepared to support this pension reform because we are convinced that there are simply no other alternatives. And this needs to be said out loud, we have no other alternative. If anyone else has an alternative, tell them. Even if it is not the best, even if there are many shortcomings, it must be accepted. We will later have these shortcomings if we have this option, correct and change. But generally speaking, this is a step in the right direction. Let me tell you immediately if there is to be our support – and I will tell all those who will start speaking out loud, yes, and the Slovenian People's Party will be a substitute for DeSUS. Never and never. We'll be the first to sign for early elections, first. Because, as it appears now, this coalition does not have enough votes to support this pension reform if it comes to veto. According to my behavior, there's not enough votes. And I'm telling you again, gather around, be careful, think about the laws you bring to the National Assembly! I expect you to do much more to make the business environment in the Slovenian economy much better. And a word, two union leaders who'll probably put us on the blacklist. If we were at a different time, they'd probably send us to the Goli Island. Would it be okay, I don't know why you're all sighing like that, or is it hard for you? The opposition is to set up a mirror for you, and you can see for yourself that things are not what they should be. Do not sigh, or accept the pension reform yourself, which is why you are in power. I ask whether union leaders will also take responsibility for the consequences in this country that will arise when the pension register simply falls apart. I agree, it would be best to work by the age of 40, and that should probably be enough, but it's not because there are trends, not just in us, but elsewhere, as they are. One more thing: When does Slovenian farmer retire? Do you know when a Slovenian farmer retires? That's when they take him to the cemetery. That's when he stops working as a Slovenian farmer. And no sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u37	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. The next one's gonna be mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! First of all, I would like to answer or say in my speech why there is no need to be ashamed of Social Democrats, because in 2005 we, together with the European Commission in the International Monetary Fund and domestic economic experts, warned that pension reform was needed. If it were ready in 2005, it could be a lot milder than it is today. However, those of you who were in power in 2005 have not done a p since the pension reform. There was a lot of money back then. It was living on a high foot, everything was oh and all, conjunkture, etc. And today you are wise and wise. Nevertheless, we estimate that the Government has prepared a good reform in terms of an intergenerational agreement. The pension reform also prevents the initial pensions from falling, allowing for the existing pension law. If the average pension is now at a level of 60 % of the average wage, this percentage would be reduced to 50 % and below 50 %. If we don't accept this pension reform, I'll ask you. You will vote against this country's retired citizens getting a pension below 50% of their salary. Let's say he has 600, 700 euros in salary, and figure out what kind of pension he'll get. Do you wish to report this to the Slovenian public today? Do you want to report some political, demagogic speeches and bluffing, how much do you know how to propose good laws that you don't really intend to implement, but just to do "puffer" in public? Once again, I ask you to understand: Will you vote against pension legislation today so that these citizens will have a 50% lower pension? You will do this today because you will vote against it. You will do so, but this must be reported to the Slovenian public. That's what you're gonna do. Forced people to have 50% of their pension salary, but you can laugh, have fun, make smart, etc. That's what you'll do today if you vote against it. I'm sure you'll vote against it because worse than it is right now, you're doing better in the opposition. The proposal for a new law stems from two fundamental objectives: to secure decent pensions and to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system. That's the goal of reform. It will therefore have to be borne in mind that, in the event of the maintenance of the existing pension system due to its financial incontinence in the coming years, there would inevitably be a decrease in the scope of insurance rights, which is unacceptable from the point of view of the social state, and an even greater increase in employers' contributions, which would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The proposed amendments to pension legislation are thus necessary in terms of halting the fall in pension pensions and providing pensions to future generations. These are, for my fundamental reasons, why this pension reform needs to be voted out, why it needs to be implemented, and why it needs to be stopped, because the numbers clearly speak. And once again, whoever opposes this reform wants a poor future for the pensioners, for the new pensioners. Try to read the legislation, but if it is not clear enough for you, let the Minister explain it to you again. Maybe you'll believe him. Of course, I will personally, like the Social Democrats, support this reform. I am sure that the pension reform will be adopted to go under the roof, and another story is how much bile you will spit out on this reform and try to disable it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u39	The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Mr. Marijan Pojbič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time of the parliamentary hearing of this law, I have worked with some Members to achieve a social consensus on pension reform and to make reform socially fair. Here. There's a lot of good solutions in marriage. We are also all aware that we will have to work longer, but solutions would also be different, fairer and more aligned with those most affected by the changes. Social justice would be changes if they were acceptable to the majority but would not affect the most vulnerable groups in society. What, then, are the reasons why changes made by law are not sufficiently socially just? First time. The issue of pension fund financing has not been dealt with in a socially fair manner. Belts should also be tightened and employers should assume greater financial responsibility for the current inadequate working situation. This is not what reform changes bring. Therefore, it is also unjustifiable to be intimidated by a hole in the pension box. If I can explain. Employees pay almost once more in their pension allowance than employers, although in all European countries, except Slovenia, employers pay about the same share in their pension allowance as employees. Also in Slovenia, capital is not adequately taxed. There is no financial transaction tax in Slovenia either. The restriction of work in black, one of the major tasks of the Ministry, which has drawn up the contested pension law, remains a major untapped source of income for the pension fund. The task of the Ministry of Labour would also be to create a secure working environment so that employees could even reach high retirement conditions without having to worry that employees would not be exposed to injury and death in jobs and abuse and harassment of employers. This has not been adequately taken care of. However, it is not only these governments that sin. All of these are also the sins of all the previous governments. Another time. The law is not socially fair because it hurts the most vulnerable in our society. In most cases, industrial workers will not be able to meet the high conditions for a non-malus pension. High boys will severely reduce the pensions of future pensioners. The conditions of retirement are also difficult to reach for older unemployed people who do not have the opportunity to be employed. The transfer of a protective allowance during social transfers is also questionable. It will enable the dispossession of the wealth of many of the poorest and most powerless. That is why it is difficult to accept and unfairly base thesis of this law, according to which only work for which contributions have been paid is considered. Not taking into account the unpaid work performed by women in general, we are moving further away from the idea that those who do unpaid work in society deserve their pension. Third time. The law is not socially fair either, because it is not acceptable for most employees and for older unemployed people who no longer have a chance to get a job. Fourth time. Can we really say that the law is acceptable to pensioners because it is supported by some prominent officials from the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, allegedly with clenched teeth and for the sake of statehood? Is it true that some officials who have a mandate to protect the interests of pensioners have been agreeing for years to improve the situation of pensioners? Today, the average pension is below the poverty line. The proportion of people over 65 living below the poverty line increased by 2 percentage points between 2002 and 2008. Since 1999, average pensions have fallen dramatically on the average wage. They also fell at a time of high economic growth. It is therefore an extremely sensitive law, which is important for all generations, and it is therefore irrelevant whether social consensus has been reached with regard to more important provisions of the law. It doesn't matter whether the law is socially fair. However, the social responsibility of the proposers of change is measured according to these values. If that condition were fulfilled, then I would be happy to support such a law. Unfortunately, however, the condition is not met, although some good solutions cannot be denied by law. But I will support the amendments that improve the law. Unfortunately, the unachieved social consensus and too low social justice of the law today threaten the adoption of the real pension reform, which I am also seeking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u41	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u42	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I must say that I am extremely pleased with what I have heard today in the National Assembly, that coalition parties have found that there is also opposition in this House. And there have been several calls and requests for the opposition to help the coalition resolve this extremely critical situation in this country we are now in. So this ideological concrete of the coalition has failed. This is one huge advance in the democracy of our country. And I must say that I am very happy and I am proud that there have only been changes in the coalition's thinking or thinking that what she has set as some goal in this four-year term is falling as a domino. Dear Member, please allow me to speak, because I probably have this right in the National Assembly. Please! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, I am sure, as I have said many times in this National Assembly, we are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the adoption of this pension law is not of strategic importance at this time. It's not strategic. And that is one of the reasons, including one of the reasons why we oppose the adoption of this law. We know exactly what the problems facing this country are. And we know that exactly. We have 120 thousand unemployed, we have a lot of companies on the verge of survival, between 6,000 and 7,000. We've got a lot of employees who don't know how many months they haven't been paid. We have a lot of companies that didn't pay in the pension register, and I could even list it. On the other hand, we have a whole bunch that this coalition is very good at caring for in at least these two years, for networks, for rich people, in narrations, I'm not going to use the word that should be used for these people, they're going to live fantastically today. There's no problem for them. Nothing happened to prevent money from going abroad, anywhere, to the Bahamas and so on. To draw some key guidelines to stop this once in this country. And then such reforms should not be implemented at this time. I hope that, like the party really, and I will not talk about individual Members, today I am trying to tell Members and Members of the opposition that what we are saying is demagogic. Are there 120 thousand unemployed for you, dear coalition and government, demagogies? Is there so many and so many thousands of people who haven't received a salary in six months that we're not talking about Vegrad, it's a demagogy of the opposition? Is that the situation in this country? It would be important to talk about this, and we should think about it, dear coalition and respected government. It has also been said today by the Minister, if I am not mistaken that voting against this support is support for the fall of pensions. That's demagic. On the one hand, it is also said that pensions will rise from 10% to 19%. On the other hand, we have a study of the Faculty of Economics, which says that as a result of the extension, we will be able to calculate the pension by 12 to 15%. Let someone here in this House explain to me who I should trust. Believe me, I believe in the Faculty of Economics. We have not yet received any specific studies with specific figures from the Ministry. And then it is very clear that this coalition and this government are trying to deceive the Slovenian public in every way, instead of dealing with the key priorities of this moment and with what is crucial for the Slovenians and Slovenians to survive. An important issue is also raised when we are talking about the sustainability of the pension fund. Everyone in this National Assembly, everyone in this country is absolutely clear that in the state and situation in which it is in which it is situated, the pension box office cannot be sustainable. It would certainly be sustainable if these 120,000 unemployed people had employment and paid contributions to the pension, health and state budget. Then there wouldn't be a problem, and the pension register wouldn't be empty. And such a pension reform as you now propose would not be necessary. Once again, I stress why this government is always solving those problems that are not crucial at the moment. But do not go after those who are crucial and important at this moment and those who are going far away in this country. These are employees, as well as pensioners, those with extremely small pensions, not to mention wanting to abolish state pensions, 180 euros or something like that received by those people. These are the absurdities of all absurdities. Can any of you imagine that I, the MP who elected me, would solve their problems, help them, vote for such a law? Please! Then something is very wrong in this country if I voted in favour of such a bill. What else is wrong with this country? Yesterday or today, I read in the newspaper the following, "The government has lost its development focus." And it says, "Say and write," the minister in this government. Now say: Is the opposition the one who has only problems in such a situation as it appears here in this country? I don't understand what the problem is anymore. He doesn't understand because he can't understand if his own minister is saying that the government has lost its development focus. With this sentence, the minister, when she said this, confirmed all the concerns we are constantly trying to make in the opposition parties. Believe me, there is no one here in the National Assembly who would not want us to enter this critical, crisis situation together. None of us, I'm sure, except individuals or coalitions. We've been trying to make important contact with you for two years. We have prepared, I don't know how many, 7, 10 different, three sets of anti-crisis measures to help solve this situation. But coalition and government, as I said, ideological concrete, see themselves and nothing else. You care so much about people, citizens and citizens. You totally care about that. If you weren't, then you wouldn't have taken all these measures to freeze your pensions, pay what I know, anything that could be frozen, because I said, except for your mouth, you weren't able to freeze because there aren't enough freezers in our country to make it, or else we would have done it. I'll try to finish with the following words. The fact is, the law you've drawn up is very bad. At this point, I reaffirm once again what is unnecessary at this time, because there is no strategic law to help resolve the current economic, financial and social situation. It's not. Let us therefore tackle problems that are crucial if we want this country, this nation, Slovenia and Slovenians to survive. That's what we have to do. Only then will we save things that are in the long run. But if these things were running parallel, this situation would be significantly better, but it's not, and that's what's problematic. On the one hand, 120 thousand unemployed, on the other hand, the extension of the pension and working age. Believe me, let's go once and listen to what we're telling you here in the opposition. Let's hear it one more time! Let us know that this country cannot come out of the current crisis unless we save the economy if we do not get rid of this credit crunch if businesses fail from day to day. Every day we'll have new unemployed. Then who's going to pay the pension money? However, we can extend the pension and work life to 80 years, and we can do so if we do not resolve the fundamental issue of this society. My dear friends, that's why we're in this House, so we're sitting here. Once again, there is no Member who should not be the primary and key task of taking care of the electorate and the electorate. Those who voted for it, which are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of which political party it is, should be our task. If everyone sitting in this House thought this way, believe me, there would be a lot of amendments, including the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and other oppositions, adopted and solutions would be much better, better quality and in fact written on the skin of most citizens and citizens. But certainly not networks and individuals. Those who are now looking forward to all possible ways, we have a whole bunch of them that have huge hundreds. We have people who have received almost EUR 800,000 a year in this and last year. Can anyone explain to me, because now we hear that this company is going to go bankrupt or into a forced settlement, as far as possible, tell me, my dear, how is that possible?Oh, my God! And it's like nothing happened to me. Then somebody else tell me I'm running a demagogy here. Please, my dear friends! Mrs. Potrata, that's not funny. Even if I say "dear friends," I think well, and I think well, so you don't have to laugh. Otherwise, laughter doesn't hurt, they say it's good to have a little laugh. Well, I conclude that we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for all these reasons. Neither do I, of course, because I am convinced that at this point we should work on the strategic solutions to the current economic and social situation in the country. And if we did, such reforms would not be necessary at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u43	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Ms Melita Župevc will be next. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you, but I can hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've already discussed it today, so I can replicate it. Mr. Pojbich, do you mind if I laugh? Last time you were gone – laughter is half healthy. But, I'm sorry, I didn't know I was your friend. That fact made me so happy that I really had to laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u46	In the Slovenian National Party, we have honestly told you in the introduction what we do not like about marriage. We've asked questions that have no answers. My colleague Majhenič told you very specifically with numbers in billions where the money should be in the pension register. But let me tell you something else about the European perspective. You can say what you want, but I'm offended when I heard some of the speakers earlier, first of all about the European social policy that is not, Europe has no social policy. Secondly, to speak in the National Assembly about that if we do not accept this, we will have a poorer rating, but it is – forgive the expression, I do not know what some of the terms master and doctor – complete ignorance are. The only clear thing is public debt. This country's public debt is the only one that can lead to lower ratings and higher costs, and nothing else. However, if you insist on this claim – please listen a little – it means that with the public debt of "filamo" the pension allowance, which means that there is something rotten in this Slovenian country, because then someone steals the paid money into the pension register. Now, consider whether you will say that if we do not adopt this law, Slovenia will have a poorer rating. Are you saying that and then proving where is the money that comes from paying both workers and employers to the pension fund? At the same time, consider your reassurance, for by giving guarantees, we become potential debtors and raise our debt. And when this one exceeds 60% of the gross social product, then they will. [[End warning sign]] foreign financiers say, Slovenians, you're a risky country, and then they'll raise our ratings. So much for your knowledge. And since I've had seven seconds stolen before, this: Greece does not make any changes [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mrs. Melita Župevc, you have the floor. Next up will be Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly. I must say that I cannot agree to the obvious that has been made several times in this Chamber today, this is an indication of irresponsibility. I'm 32 years old, and I'm voting for pension reform. And the obvious fact that my action is — since I am 32 years old, and I must say that I have never in my life counted how many years I have to work, nor have I ever calculated how much my pension will be in the current pension system — irresponsiblely, really hard to accept! I think it is responsible for two reasons: because this law introduces solidarity and because it means responsibility for the future. I must say that I liked how Mr Žerjav presented three options earlier in plastic and said that we are on option three today. Of course, it is not easy to press the button and say, but this option is ideal, of course it is not! And when you speak truly demogosically about the pensioners, about the peasant females and so on, yes, for God's sake, because we don't live here in an oasis, because we also talk and meet every day with the same people that you are with. You think I don't care when my friends tell me the pensioners to close the radiator a little bit more because it's very expensive. I don't care, but I can't care if I vote to say I'm going against this pension reform, why? I mean, I don't see any reason to be against her. We all agree here that the system that is today is not sustainable, everyone! You agree, too, but at the same time you say no, we will not vote for such a pension reform. You know those objections. The opportunity missed is not returned. I agree again, but not often, with Comrade Zerjava, we have an opportunity today. And I think it's right for us to take this opportunity. Everything that goes through will be much harder in a year, two years, years from now. And no, we don't work against pensioners, we work for all of them, we work for all of us! And I think it's very easy to talk so brutally and think and show them, and they're the bad ones. They really don't care about the pensioners, the workers, the students, they don't care about everything. No, we don't care about anyone, that's what we're going to vote for in the pension reform. And my predecessor, I have to say, he said so much nonsense that it's really hard to hear. He said that the adoption of this law was not strategic. No, it's crucial! All, virtually all European governments are engaged in pension reforms. Obviously, no European government has real priorities. They're all dealing with some marginal reforms, marginal laws, we're the only ones who've come up with an idea. Why should we now accept a pension reform? We all know the facts, we all know the numbers and not the facts and not the numbers are not on our side. And I think we have the responsibility, the responsibility to take care of all of us, the pensioners, the employees, the students. And as it is said, the most speaking are those who are also in this hall a few years before peace. I was just thinking whether I'm going to say it or not, and I'm going to say it again, and I'm twenty-two years old and I'm going to vote for pension reform because it's a responsible act, not irresponsible. If this act were irresponsible, then I'd say, look, I'd start counting on how many years I'd be working, what my pension would be, and so on. I feel obliged to vote for this pension reform. As it is said, the solutions in it are not ideal, and I must say that I am surprised to hear from my colleagues who always have a problem with every law that comes along and have an obvious magic wand. I want to hear better solutions, I really want to hear them, but I have to say, I've never heard them before. So, you know, first you have to clean up with yourself and then with the others. As it is said, for a short time, I will vote in favour of this pension reform because it is a responsible act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u49	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor to prepare Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, there is one more proof of where we came with the level of debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, when Mr Pojbič, a fellow member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, said: "If we did not take care of the rich, we would not need pension reforms at all." I mean, what kind of debate is this, and who in this country cares about rich people? It is clear to the coalition that social contributions have not been paid to workers and workers, that nothing is done for these people to support the tycoons and so on. But did you not forget that during the previous term, contributions were also not paid to start the management buyout and so on? Stop populism, because I think the devil took the joke. We have a pension reform ahead of us, which has also led the party of Social Democrats to wish its glory in public. You can see that, don't worry, you've reached your point. But you're talking about the arguments why we accept this and why it's a responsible act, as was said. If we all agree in this Chamber that we know the demographic picture, if we all agree that demographic image is not the only problem, that the problem is also the lifespan, then we are looking for a solution. The solution is on the table. We have a pension reform where it is established, be careful, the stage that will not hurt painfully those who are before retirement is achieved by taking into account the military. It takes into account the birth of a child, every child. It is taken care of for young people whose employers will hire because they will be paid back the contributions they had to pay to the pension fund in one year 50%, in the other year 30% and so on. It is provided for higher pensions and is provided for a new pension formula that takes into account the growth of average wages and inflation growth, which makes sense because average wages can fall, so that the solutions in this pension reform are definitely directed towards people. However, we can decide that we will insist in advance on a system where pensions fall and where those who pay today’s pensions do not have the assurance that they will also get to the pension. And I hear in this room that marriage is not socially fair, it's not socially social. I think the time has finally come when I ask you to put on the table proposals, what is social justice, what is more social justice and how you would save this world. What populism brings is incredible, and I would love to see your mandate, this mandate and your solutions. But at the end of the day, I am also happy that this mandate is run by the Government, such as that we Social Democrats have taken over this government and we are trying to resolve the situation. When we talk about social justice, let us ask ourselves: Is it socially fair to break the pension system? Is it socially fair for us to pay 300 million euros a year in a pension fund to save pensions? Is it social justice to lower pensions, to be unworthy? Is that what we're defending? Is it socially fair that if we do not accept this pension reform today, we will accept it much harder tomorrow or in a few years, which will directly burden those who should work longer, and we will go directly to 65 years? And what do you know, maybe you'll be in that role when you have to accept it. Then we will probably find ourselves on the opposite shores and it will be very interesting to look at your discussions in the National Assembly today and perhaps sometime in the future. Is it socially fair that if we do not accept pension reform, we will experience the collapse of the country's credit rating? Is it socially fair to break reforms and, in fact, prevent the development of the economy and increase the deterioration of the image, i.e. the deterioration of the social situation of social security? I don't understand how someone dares to judge and insult people who publicly support pension reform and explain that they know why they support it and that they know the reasons. That's insulting. If someone has a position, at least respect him, I do not expect arguments to be heard in the National Assembly – unfortunately, because there is too much populism, collection of cheap political points and so on. Finally, I am 29 years old and will support the pension reform, because it seems important to me to ensure that generations who pay in the pension box can ever get to the pension, and to ensure that those who are already receiving pensions cease to receive pensions. And I take this action as a responsible act. It is sad that sometimes the younger generation has to make the most responsible decisions in this country and that there is a great burden on the younger generation. It's the easiest thing to be against. It's easy to pick up a few sentences: "You're against people, against workers, you're doing nothing for them, you're supporting tycoons and so on." But unfortunately, it's a lie. That's a lie. But you can keep saying that. The political situation in which we all came together and the assessment of the situation and, above all, the spirit among people is also the real state of what we are doing in the National Assembly. But in the case of pension reform and in the event of the rejection of pension reform, we are really working against people, not people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u51	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u52	Your Honor, hello! Ten years ago he was admitted to PIZ 1 and acted as if he were working. The fact is, it's not fully operational yet. Mr Tsukati explained this very well in his presentation of the position of the Group of Members. Some things will not show up until 2018, 2020. But what was interesting was the debate or the beginning of the Minister's debate when he explained the Government's position. You know what he said? "The existing system works in the right direction." That was his statement. With regard to the effects on working life, it was said to be extended until the age of 65, but rarely to work until the age of 65. I wonder, what are we actually going to do? Why are we scaring people? I listened on TV yesterday when a union official said that this legislation was for one simple reason. So that we can continue to be in charge of not having any difficulties in obtaining loans abroad. That was said yesterday. Is it true that this is the main reason he is in such a hurry with an unharmonized law? From the very beginning, I wonder if this is really a reform, is it just a modernisation of the pension system or this law? If this is a reform, then what we now have on the table is considerably too small. But if it's modernisation, it's too much. The fact is, this is a very complex marriage, over 400 articles. The adoption of such a law would require a broader social consensus. Now I'm going to say what some of you want to frame us all along, especially the opposition. This law is not opposed by the opposition. This law is opposed by employers, and this law is opposed by trade unions, i.e. workers' representatives. And that's all the unions. There is not one union that is satisfied with this pension reform. And don't lie in our mouths about how the SDS is all of a sudden a demagogist party who wants to tear down in any way, what this government has prepared and brought to the National Assembly. That's not true. This law is not harmonised. Everyone is opposed to this law. Only the coalition still believes that, and not all of that. I liked Mrs Bizjak Mlakareva's debate, which also gave the Committee arguments that go against the adoption of this law. This law will affect many areas. This law will affect labour relations, social security contributions, including tax legislation. At the beginning of the mandate, the government promised to join the reform in two steps: the first step would be modernisation of transfers, which would be right, and then the added value of reform. What do we have since the modernisation of transfers? What happened? Yeah, not much! But all of a sudden, this pension reform is being pushed forward, as if it is now absolutely necessary to accept this moment and just to talk about it, and everything else is passing us by. What did the Government do with the presentation of this law in the way it was presented? I think the government did a lot of damage. You've planted fear among the citizens. It's verifiable, people are scared. They do not know what their prospects are and what will happen if this legislation is adopted. If we're just looking at applications for retirement! Usually there are about 10,000 of them a year. According to my data, there are over 15,000 of them this year. The unions are talking about 24 grand! I don't know what the real information is, but it's 14 for sure because I've looked and read it. What can we say? There is no confidence in this reform. Not on the side of the opposition. We are here today to decide whether or not this law will be adopted. However, this law is opposed by the wider Slovenian public, and this needs to be made aware. This law will affect a lot of things. The working time will be extended, this will affect widow's pensions, the protective allowance, the allowance for assistance and the service, the annual allowance, which will be lower. And all of these are acquired rights that are being reduced or abolished. And that's what this pension reform is about, and that's what we're talking about all the time. Trade unions, i.e. workers' representatives, say 40 years of work is enough. I agree with this and this should be the starting point for a new pension reform. But it's been over-heard, and there's nothing more to talk about. We're going as a roller, and that's the wrong thing to do. I get the feeling that this government has already lost touch with reality. Finally, the last referendum is a good indicator of what people think about the government, I am not talking about politics in general, about government. And we, the National Assembly, are the last ones to decide. I believe the government is very fond of moving those green magnets down, but responsibility, you know, but we will take over for everything we accept. We, not the government. The government will put the magnet on the green field, and they have done their part because this has been adopted by Parliament. I don't agree to this, so I'm sure I'll reject this legislation. Amendment of pension legislation is not necessarily necessary at this time. I think we should now think about other priorities, particularly anti-crisis measures. Where our train goes, one of the ministers who sits in this government made it clear yesterday. She made it clear that we have to catch the train of development, that he's lost us. But we are talking about things that are significantly less important at this point than how we will provide more jobs. Because it all matches up. If we provide the conditions for the creation of new jobs, more will be paid in the pension box, a smaller hole will be made and everything will go cyclically forward. But no, we started right on the other end. And that's wrong. And it's even wrong because it's not coordinated. Because you've been fighting with each other, the unions, the government, the employers. When we were on the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, we sat down, I think, for five days, and we talked about these things. What comments the unions made! How many comments the employers made! Not of the opposition species, the opposition kind only knows what we will do if we adopt this law, what will happen. I'm afraid there's gonna be another referendum. And if there's another referendum, yes, you'll lose another one. If that's what you want – fine, fine. I think we have an opportunity now to stop this train, to send the government and the unions, the social partners, all in a row, to sit at the table and not come out until they have a coordinated proposal. At that time, the Slovenian Democratic Party will also look at this legislation differently, for sure. So once again, this law is not opposed by the opposition, this law is opposed by the wider Slovenian public and, above all, by the social partners who say they have been played in the drafting of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Get Dr. Luke Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I must say first, because it has been warned that we must be sober today and be sober and realistic – I am serious and never drinking in my life, so I am always sober and will also try to give my opinion on this third reading in this context. If I have listened correctly today and also for many hours, which have been sitting on committees and various gommys, which have coordinated this pension legislation, I must say that one message from all gommys is that the current system is irrespective of its changing 10 years ago and has been planned for 20 years, that it is unsustainable and that, given the economic and economic situation, it is impossible to withstand the next 10 years. It is therefore my first opinion and my view that if we do nothing as some of you do today, then this is the worst solution. We just have to do something. And after all these strong coordinations that have been, we have on the table a proposal in the third reading, which I think is the solution that at least indicates that some things can be fixed in the future. Therefore, I will not talk about the individual segments, the articles, the individual target groups concerned by this law, but will talk about the basic purpose and objective of this amendment of pension legislation. I think that the first is that the proposal of the law, as I said earlier, is being adapted to the existing pension and disability insurance system primarily – and some of you have spoken demographically today, although the picture is being slightly improved and it would be good for many Slovenians and Slovenes to follow my minority in correcting this demographic picture – economic and public financial circumstances that are not really conducive to the implementation of this pension system that we now have. The proposal responds, and I hope that it is not too late, to the relationship between the active people we pay in this pension box and those retired people who, from the same cash register we are paying, use their resources for the daily existence and, above all, try to pursue the goal of securing a decent pension in the future. It is said that we are not only working for a generation that is now retired, but also for all generations to come. And if we do not accept these adjustments and targets, then we must be aware that we can expect this in the coming years and rightly expect a reduction in the extent of insurance rights. That's what I think is bad. Not only for the social state, but it is unacceptable and irresponsible to do the same for those of us who have this responsibility at the moment, so that we do not allow these rights to be reduced. That is why I believe that we, the 90 Members and Members, are truly a great responsibility. I do not believe, and I hope that we will also be aware of this responsibility and take it upon ourselves for generations to come. So we decide on the status and position to use this, our children. So it's some kind of intergenerational agreement that we now have on the table. If I don't stall, I'm gonna be a little personal. Although I don't have any big groups behind me, I have a mother who's retired and she said, "Sweetheart, vote for this law, that I will have a decent pension in the next few years, but not that next year and for the next five years this pension, which is not already high, will be reduced." Of course, I will make this wish come true and support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Get ready, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In 2010, at the global level, it was marked by a transformation in the story of the financial and economic crisis. The world gross product increased by 5%. Employment has started to increase, and at least this year we can say there was no recession. Nevertheless, we cannot go beyond the fact that all regions of the world are not going in the same direction. On the one hand, the growth train was drawn mainly by four BRIC countries: Brazil, Russia, India and China. On the other hand, the United States has resorted to promoting its own economy by further borrowing and purchasing its own bonds. What about east of the Atlantic? In Europe, we have begun to face the legacy of accommodating the cecho interest and giving in with various privileges, which has become too expensive a country and the break of the most vulnerable periphery economies in the euro area: Greece, Ireland, possibly Portugal, perhaps even Spain. In addition, Europe has awakened into another sea that raises even more questions about its future, and its population is facing a growing quality of life with the second side of this medal, with ageing. The reaction to this awakening was awareness, if necessary, of pension reform, followed by classic five stages of mourning throughout Europe, at first denying that there is no need for pension reform, then anger, if that is not fair, followed by a level of negotiation, whether the reform can be postponed. Stage four, regrettably, if that's not fair and at the end of the day, we all come together to the fifth stage, the stage of acceptance. And today we are right here to accept our answer with the new pension law. And even though this is not the last pension reform and perhaps the longer life expectancy of all of us on the agenda will be new, in ten years this answer is still necessary. In Germany, this work period has already been increased to seventy-seven years, in France it is now elevated, in Italy it has been done ten years ago, and we have this opportunity now. And not at seventy-seven as it is in Germany or even ninety-nine as they now speak in the United States of America, but at fifty-five. Of course, not all are in favour, some colleagues in this Chamber, but also trade union Februaryes, which I think instead of fighting for pensions they prefer to fight for the legitimacy of their own high wages still persist in the denial phase that reform is not now necessary. Others stress how unfair it is, and are in a state of anger, while others pretend to be in the third stage of the negotiations. In fact, they're just looking for their own short-term political benefit. None of these people, however, are allowed to descend from the illusions of the reality of what has now been brought to all pensioners by the law they are fighting for. Since 2000, such a law has reduced the average wage by 15%. However, if it remains in force, it will continue to reduce it by 6% by 2025. The decline will continue later. Such a reduction will end the new law, as it will provide a financial basis to ensure that pensions are dignified. Those who are therefore fighting for the current system are fighting for lower pensions, but it is true that they are also fighting for early retirement and that the state will have to increase the payment of contributions and further burden workers' salaries. Lower pensions and higher taxes on labour salaries at the same time. This is the perspective offered by those who oppose pension reform. Welcome to the desert of reality. I think it is time to ask ourselves, not what the community can do for each individual, but what all individuals and individuals can do for the community so that we can live better in it. It is not right that the system divides us not into two, but even into four generations, which, on the basis of deception and half-truths, have been in conflict, rather than on the basis of concrete data on what the law brings together to support it. Pensioners are supposed to be against it, although it is primarily in their interest to support the law so that pensions will cease to fall. Those who are just before retirement who are able to benefit from transitional periods under the new system and who will also be retired within a few years should have the interest that their pensions will no longer fall. The rest of us, who will be retired once again, do not want our net wages to be reduced due to higher contributions. In the end, young people and children who, hand to heart, if pension systems do not change today, will probably never see pensions due to the collapse of the system tomorrow. Like Abraham Lincoln said, "We can't escape responsibility for tomorrow by trying to avoid it today." That's why I'm in, for the future. I am 33 years old and will support the pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anton Kolaric has the word. Get Marjan Bezajak ready. Excuse me, Mr. Frangež has the floor. Let's get Mr. Kolaric ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I believe that sometimes in the life of a nation comes to moments, periods that require as much national unity as possible. Don't take this as a call to common sense, because I think we've come to this hall determined how we'll all act together. However, I would like to say that this clarification of Slovenian policy, which also largely reflects the clarification of Slovenian society, is the responsibility of this policy. Above all, that sometimes we don't know or know how to go beyond electoral mathematics, expecting what is politically oriented and what isn't, and simply looking at the needs of this nation. The statesman thinks of the next generation. The politician thinks of the next election. I am afraid that there are far too many politicians in this Chamber who think about it and who are enlightened about the expected benefits when they try to act and vote on the government's reform attempt. Some quoted yesterday's debate as saying by the President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Katarina Kresal, that this government has lost its reform focus. In two years, we've lost our public trust. The ratings of these governments are at the bottom. Why? To a large extent, too, because we have always followed what is responsible for this country and its citizens. The problems facing Slovenia at the threshold of the second decade of the 21st century are complex and interrelated. The crisis in Greece, the stability of the euro area and the question of unemployment are still related to pension reform. The pension reform represents an attempt at a precise and fair balance between the needs and possibilities of different generations in our country. If we do not accept it, we will face the increasingly severe consequences of today's imbalances in this country. Today, Slovenia is in a situation as it is, because all governments have taken political compromises too many times so far, too many times have looked at the next elections and have done little of what was needed in the country. That is why today we have a skeleton and a pooled public sector, to a large extent a fragile labour market, an under-innovative economy and a poor chance for the country to eliminate the accumulated social problems that have absolutely exploded due to the start of the crisis during the two years following the start of the crisis. Today, the question is whether we will be one more in the policy line that does not act when action is needed. Only in the second year, in 2011, the non-acceptance of pension reform costs us an additional EUR 400 million, from EUR 200 to EUR 300 million because of the need to cover from the budget the increased needs of the pension fund and around EUR 100 million in order to increase the servicing of public debt, the increased interest that will be paid to this country, because the credit rating agencies will start reducing our assessment because these agencies will assess that this country is no longer able to manage its problems. This is what you want, it will not only be a problem for the countries, my dears, and to give more than 100 million euros to finance public debt. This will directly affect the people, the people who are also borrowing loans from banks, and these banks will also be strengthened by the conditions for entering the international interbank market. These are the concrete consequences of irresponsible behavior today. But, you know, I envy you in my own way, I am among those who would like to practice in this country at this time to have you, but I guarantee you, I guarantee you, that in me and in the actions of my colleagues, you would not find so much appeal over these difficult times as each time with each vote, with each performance in this National Assembly you vote. The number of unemployed people in all bankruptcys, do you think these are insular problems that are not related to the state's condition as a whole? A unstable country cannot have a stable economy. And what is our first task in this National Assembly is to take care of the stability of the country. Until now, this stability has been preserved by this government in impossible times. The reform efforts, the great reform efforts, one inhuman effort that this Government and this coalition are committed to managing and reforming this country, must be pulled out of the mud we are in. Vito Rožej spoke earlier about the poster from the independent times, which showed adult arms and baby legs on these hands with the footnote: "The four million consecutive hands need not be afraid of anything." I remember this poster nostalgically myself. I have accompanied one of the previous treatments of pension reform with the words, 'don't chase your pension, chase and follow your passport', do not hunt your pension, hunt your passion, and in this country unfortunately lacks this energy, that we all want to do as well as possible because it is our responsibility in this National Assembly first, but not to indulge in what is going to happen to this country and its people tomorrow, to pursue and achieve the summits of the government's failures. This is very irresponsible, my dears, and such an attitude marks the opposition's entire mandate. That is why the social climate — or to be more precise — is also why the social climate in this country is where it is. The problems are therefore linked, and I cannot imagine what is more strategically important than the adoption of pension reform. I really don't know what's more urgent in this country than to accept pension reform. Instead, we have been constantly faced with blackmails that have already tried to further disrupt the balance in this society and which have built on re-election mathematics and the willingness of some social groups to the detriment of others. I'm 33 years old. I want to know what's going on with the young and active population that has to bear the burdens of this society. In my generation, many do not believe that they will ever see their retirement. This basically destroys social solidarity. If we don't have Bismarck's model of pension insurance, then we're really going to be left to ourselves in this society. I don't want that kind of company. That is why I will support the pension reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak has the floor, followed by Mrs State Secretary Dr Anja Kopač Dark. Mr. Bezjak, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We have a pension and disability insurance law ahead of us today. Why is this marriage not a good time or a good time? Because, after all, it is not consistent with the social partners, as well as with employers and not with employers. We all come to the golf club together if we adopt this law. Why golfers? Not to play golf. But to have two sticks in the workplace. This is the law you are presenting to us today, which we are about to adopt today. Unfortunately, I can't agree that we're raising such a drastic 5-year age limit, but young people can't possibly get a job and get a job after completing college. This is a problem, now an additional 50 or even more thousand unemployed in Slovenia. We are not dealing with how to create jobs, how to raise economic growth, but we are dealing with childbearing, if I can call them, between the coalition and the opposition. I stress many times in my speeches that we should and should urgently find a consensus between us here. We can't even find him in here, let alone out there. This is the biggest problem and disaster or damage for this country of Slovenia. You know, no reform of the pension law will be in favour of a better tomorrow from this point of view unless these few economic operators, economic operators, are paying for health and disability bills. This is the biggest problem and there is no sanction against it. Indeed, those who pay are very few, the micro-enterprise sector and medium-sized enterprises, and all the larger companies are almost not paying. I would be very happy to see all these economic operators unite and predict that they will not pay any tax to the State for 2,3 months. That's when I'd be in here, and most of all, the government would be sobering up about what a dollar means. I have repeatedly said and repeat, Members and Members of the public sector, come six months after pay, as is the case in the economic sector. Not that you're still smiling every five of you when you get the payroll. That's the truth that hurts. In this country, we have too many people working in the public sector for such a small country. That is why I am predicting to you, as well as all economicists and trade unions, that no reform in this way can sustain and will not bring a better tomorrow. There's a consensus to be found, it needs to be agreed. We are all prepared to work together for a better future. But if we can confirm that today, we'll make that much and that much cost again. The social partners will demand a vote in the referendum and it will go back to that much and that much money because of the insubordination of 90 Members and the government. This is a shame, which is a hard word for our government, which we ultimately love. Everyone here would be happy if they were invited to debates before the marriage in this large home. And so here on the left, on the right, on the middle, or whatever I call it, we measure the muscles. It's irrelevant. Therefore, it would be better if there were no transmissions and there were very few muscle measurements. Perhaps there would be a greater consensus between the Government and the political parties to achieve the objectives for a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Dr Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. When we talk about pension reform, we need to point out immediately what are the two key objectives that we are pursuing all the time: those are decent pensions and the sustainability of the system itself. Several times these two goals are tried to separate and talk, yes, it's just about sustainability, about credit, and I don't know what. Unfortunately, these two goals cannot be separated, for if there is no sustainable cash register, there will be no decent pensions. And that's the key thing and the connection. And when it comes to credits that this is supposed to be due to some bonuses, credits up and down, yes, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we took credits so that we could pay for intervention laws that, during the crisis, alleviated the social situation. So, credit may not be something bad, it's not something that throws itself out the window, but it's because of people and their social situation. That is why, among other things, due to the intervention laws adopted, we have reduced the risk of poverty by 1%, the unemployment rate is above 100,000, but still in the European scale among the lowest, fourth by number. That's all true. And when we talk about the sustainability of the system, why is this important? Because the pension system is one of the basic systems in the social state. If we are weakening this system, then we are seriously questioning the social state. This system operates on intergenerational solidarity. All measures in this law strengthen intergenerational solidarity. The solutions that are in the system fairly divide the risk among all generations. Why should the pension system be reformed? Not because of credit, not because of such simple things. No, because of a demographic condition that's unforgivable. We've been living longer, and unfortunately the generations that are coming are getting smaller. That is why this decision, which may not seem important to some on the SDS side, does not seem structural. But, as long as we don't do this today, we may not be threatening tomorrow, but we're threatening all generations and their pensions later. If this does not require structural reform, then I do not know what is necessary in this country for all those. But, yes, maybe less than a year is essential. If we don't, the intervention laws will follow over and over again. Because at this point we are paying more than a billion three hundred thousand from the pension budget. That's a fact we can't get past. It won't be born soon, I don't know how many more children and we won't live much longer. And it is true, the minister made it clear in his speech at the outset that the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was adopted, works but is too slow. Looking at the numbers again, in the last 10 years, pensions have increased more than the actual retirement age has. And again, the actual retirement age in our country is among the lowest in Europe. So if in all of Slovenia we are comparable to other countries, if we have similar demographic trends, how can we say that we do not need this and that this solution is not real? When we have different options, we decide on a fair option that says: we will work longer, but in order to work longer, we fix the dose percentage, for each period a dose percentage is recognised. So someone who's been working for over 40 years gets an appropriate higher dose rate. Those who have started early are subject to pension periods and not working hours, as mentioned several times. It should also be noted that the proposal does not affect disability pensions in any way in the sense that they are being reduced, protective allowances, pardons, in addition to the annual allowance. However, the fact is that, as promised, the Government has already accepted the modernisation of the social protection system and we have regulated the protection allowance there, which has also been mentioned. Unfortunately, the demographic trends that we face and are not dependent on this previous government, even if they are not, we cannot solve in the way that we say that we have 120 000 unemployed right now, which is of course not true. Because there are 104 thousand unemployed and something else. Others are included in active employment policy measures. And to say that pension reform is not necessary because we currently have such a level of unemployment. This is more, if not, it is misleading and irresponsible towards all future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Znidaršič, prepare the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I was on vacation last week. A young man approached me and asked me how I would vote in this law and whether I supported the extension of the age limit to 65 years. In a brief debate, I explained to him that there is nothing left for us to do, because this seems to be an unfriendly solution, it is still better than to increase the contribution rates either from the net or from employers' contributions. It is even less acceptable to reduce rights. There's simply no money in the pension box. And without then clearing up what he thinks about the extension, he said, "We young people think intensely about not paying any more contributions to pension and disability insurance." I said, "Yes, but you need to know that your parents will be out of pensions." Then we broke up and there was no conclusion to our conversation. However, this phenomenon — we also read about it in the newspaper — shows a severe decline in intergenerational solidarity, which cannot be extended if we want to remain a social state and a human society that understands what the connection of children to their parents and the responsibilities of one and another. I'm sure we don't have a choice. And an excuse for how we could have saved something else, but it doesn't hold. In view of this, I must point out that, at this point, any authority, left, right or any other, should face the same dilemmas as to how to resolve the pension fund, so that rights should not be reduced by already ill-standing pensioners. Given that the adoption of such changes is necessary, the opposition should be pleased to accept this issue, especially when it comes to SDS, which best shows who will be next in power. For by that time, whoever voted on it would have forgotten little, but the problem would have been solved. And if we don't save him together today, someone's gonna have to save him later, or they won't. You're holding your eyes before this thing or not. And I would also like to see who is looking for a way out of the problem of providing sufficient funds for the pension fund, while our possibilities for borrowing are severely limited and we are experiencing in fact every day the obvious that we have further indebteded the country, although I do not believe that any other authority in this economic crisis, which is certainly not to go around, would do anything other than take credit or destroy the social state and make the situation of all those poor, including a substantial increase in the number of unemployed that we are hearing today as an obvious, but we can say that it is not as terrible as we can see it. It is interesting in the story to think about trade unions that did not tell exactly what they want, at least I did not see it, but at the same time they refuse to adopt this law by predicting that they will demand a referendum and that it is not acceptable for them. After all, we are in Europe, which has mostly extended the age limit, because we are still in a society that should understand that we need to look for a way out of the crisis, because it is not just the pensions of current pensioners, but also for all those who are close or will later enter the system. Since the law provides the solution that pensions will no longer fall in comparison with salaries, it is a guarantee that those young people who are genuinely concerned about the existing system will also be able to expect a bearable pension when it comes to their turn. It is not true that this law means that workers will have to work for twenty-five years and simply cannot do so because of working conditions and so on. I must say that all those who cannot work full-time will be able to leave for early retirement as well as disabled pensioners. There is no reason why this would not be the same as before. I must tell you that years ago a survey in our country showed that the average age of disabled pensioners is twenty-four and a half years, well below the limit. Therefore, this union argument does not support criticism. I expect that, despite supporting this law, there will be the possibility that in a very short period of time there may be some agreement with the unions and that, after a short process, there will be a change or amendment of the law so that we do not spend four million on the referendum. In this sense, the possibility remains open and in spite of everything and I will support the law with all my concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Never before in Parliament have we heard so many calls from the opposition to responsibility, state-of-the-art, problem is, let's solve it together. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is already in its previous mandate because our electoral system and the political power ratio always do not guarantee the possibility of implementing key reforms in the coalition, forming a so-called partnership for development. She wanted partnership with the opposition, and at that time the development partnership worked with the largest now ruling, formerly the opposition party with the Social Democrats. At the beginning of this mandate, we have also proposed two plus ten partnership to the current Government, aware of the need for cooperation, after coordination, because of the crisis and all the problems that are associated with it. What does two mean? Partnership for short, rapid crisis exit measures, prevention of the consequences of the crisis and partnership 10 for all these structural reforms that you are now announcing and cannot carry out. We were aware of the need for cooperation, and we did not today see a lack of country ownership and accountability. This two plus ten action offer is still on the table. On the table, your Prime Minister has a proposal for an agreement on how this cooperation should take place, but this cooperation also requires the coordination of such reform packages as this pension reform. There was no such coordination by the coalition. Moreover, the opposition has proposed a whole set of amendments, after most have not been supported and the result is, of course, our opposition. My colleague France Tsukati initially listed a number of concrete, very concrete arguments on behalf of the Group of Members, what we believe is wrong with the existing pension reform and where it would be considered to improve the case. I will focus in my debate on just one aspect, not to mention that I believe that there are enough 40 years of working time for a full pension, that of course it is questionable to delete the rights acquired, such as a state pension and the like. I will focus on one aspect that I think is most important and why I cannot support this pension reform myself. In fact, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs took on the responsibility of this pension reform, which he has within his department. And with pension reform, unfortunately, that's not enough. A very important part of pension reform is also linked to some dynamics in job creation, the dynamics of improving jobs in terms of greater productivity, higher added value, that is, higher wages not least from this job and consequently higher contributions. Thus, the Minister of Labour is very limited in these development policies of the Government, which can also affect the stability of the pension fund in the long term, the social security of pensioners and some sustainability of the pension fund over the medium and long term. So in Slovenia we need new, quality jobs. Without these, distinguished ministers, no pension reform will come to life, cannot live because it is simply unsustainable. The rights acquired have already been deleted. You're just deleting some of them through your legislation. Work will also end over 40 years of working time and beyond, over 65 years, but this ends once. If the payment base is not sufficient and these payments are not large enough, of course all the measures proposed here will not remain. I really miss these measures. Measures that are an important component of pension reform, i.e. measures for new, better quality jobs. You have these, Your Honor, under your nose. It's not true. I don't know what to do. I don't know how much money to have. Look, I'm only gonna tell you one case. The construction of strategically important energy facilities stands. The construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Savi stands. It is a few ten million, if not a hundred million, that would employ those segments of the economy that are most in crisis. By the way, 90% of the domestic economy, both equipment suppliers and construction workers, is involved in the construction of power plants. These projects could create jobs, create jobs and, last but not least, contribute significantly to solving this problem today. There are probably more projects like this in Slovenia. Here is the third development axis, the railway infrastructure, not to mention the necessary information infrastructure, such as a broadband network in every Slovenian home, including in the rural area, also in the Slovenian countryside. All of these are strategically important projects of this country that could create new jobs, quality jobs and could also solve the accumulated problems of pension funds. What's going on? The proposed pension fund further chokes the economy, increases the basis for the calculation of contributions, which will be known in particular for those poor jobs with the lowest wages, as the base of the minimum wage increases to the average wage. Thus, the economic burden on the economy is further tightened here and the tax burden on the economy is increasing further indirectly. And instead of releasing the economy, so that we can create jobs, so that we can have more payers in the cash register, so that, after all, we have a technological breakthrough, more quality jobs with higher wages, which would result in higher contributions and more money in the pension register, we are witnessing different measures. So, Your Honor, don't call us to account now. We offered you cooperation. This cooperation offered is open and on the table. Take it and it will be easier to implement a reform measure. You turned him down, we don't need him, because we have a coalition. The coalition has fallen apart in front of you, even because of populism, and now there is opposition and a reference to its responsibility. Imagine what you've been doing and where you've brought this country with some prestigious behavior you've done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Anton Anderlich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. If we adopt a law for people, then surely the law on pension and disability insurance is the one we accept for the sake of people and it is for all generations, from the oldest to, we can say, the youngest. What's very important about people is that they have safety. I understand that we can talk about how someone can feel safe in the country if we provide him with an adequate pension if we provide him with a job, if we provide him with access to housing, to education and, of course, to adequate health care. In Slovenia, I think we all agree, too, the data show that life at home is extending, which means that we have a well-managed system of care for the elderly, so that they feel safe in this segment, because they are no longer working, active, but we have very well taken care of for them here as well. What I kind of miss about these debates and what was also somehow exposed to, you know, unions don't support this law. But I'm sorry, I've heard very little that trade unions would strongly negotiate with employers about improving the working situation in businesses, that jobs are better because working conditions are better. I don't track these negotiations. Much prefer to negotiate with politicians, because this is more popular, more populist, more receptive. But what's important to the worker himself, to people to negotiate with employers, to improve jobs, and I don't hear enough. The government did not negotiate, it did not hold, but trade unions prefer to negotiate as long as possible with politics because it also achieves some kind of populism and its promotion. If we look at employers, I think that in this law a solution that makes it possible to subsidise jobs for older people is certainly something that is good for them. I think that we can read both in Slovenia and in Germany that there is a shortage of skilled labour. This law provides the solution to subsidise those who want to go to early retirement, even with 50% of contributions or those over 60 years of age, with 30% of subsidies for contributions at work. This keeps the qualified workforce active. That's what the economy needs, and that's what this law brings. If we look at young people, they are also subsidized by 26 years of age so that employers can and are able to employ them more easily. So we also take care of the younger generation and get them to work indefinitely. I understand that probably someone or a large part of the economists does not want to hire young people for an indefinite period of time, but this law brings job subsidies if he employs a young person for an indefinite period of time. So, it's a real deal between all of us. And this law is, if we can say anything, surely one associate, one conglomerate of all these interests, which is now possible. And I think that what is today may really need to be legalized and thus burdened the public treasury in particular so that we can be indebted, as Mr Vizjak said before, to build the infrastructure. Unless we change the pension system, then I think we're going to decide whether we're going to talk about human security and we're going to be in charge of having pensions, or whether we're going to be in charge of building some kind of energy system. A serious question, but let us first resolve the pension system and care for people in parallel, then also relieve public finances, and we can also commit ourselves to investing in development, in the economy, in new jobs and in the new infrastructure we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Breda Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u70	Your Honor! I will support the law, regardless of the fact that I have been criticized by the coalition, that I am a "spilderbar", as previously said in the coalition. However, I am firmly convinced from the very beginning, when this debate is going on, that there is something to be done, that there is a awareness that this system will not last, so much so that I am sure that this support is shared by the public as well as by the unions and others. But only discussions are always like this, yes, changes are necessary, just not here, not now, not for me. This is what we are being accompanied by in this pension reform, if we are to say so, I do not know why we need to talk about reform. It is a matter of changing the law and the system and it has to adapt to certain situations and therefore there is no need to use big words. But when I support the marriage, all you have to do is say a few things. At first glance, there is some argument and so in public, how can it be claimed with such certainty that this system is now being strengthened for the next 30 years. This is not possible and these calculations, which are presented in public, are simply very, very questionable. However, the fact is that this path, which is a map of how this system is to be built up, provides, above all, likely savings on the cash side and guarantees, on the other hand, those rights which are guaranteed by this law. I don't understand why there are so many family pension discussions. I do not know whether, given the difficult words used by the President of the Slovenian People's Party, their amendments can be supported or not. But my intention is to support their state pension amendment, because it seems to me that this part is simply not about new things, because it's about things that are acquired, that will only be new in a small part and that the scale is such that it can't break this system. It is simply that one part of people is convinced that they will live in greater uncertainty, although probably from other sources, social transfers and so on, they need to cover these expenses so that these people can survive. But I think that's the right thing to do, and that's why I'm going to support it, despite the fact that the President of the People's Party is mad at the coalition, but that's the way it is. Nothing is wrong and here is the question of how Parliament works, how it has written rules of procedure, what is the meaning of the first, second and third readings and then of the harmonisation amendments. I am firmly convinced when Parliament expresses itself in the second reading in Parliament that it will change something substantively and is not in any way inconsistent with the second part, that it cannot be expected that in the third reading it will then return to the same content as it was in the second reading. This is from the point of view of parliamentaryism, from the point of view of procedures, and it seems to me that it is not good for democracy, because most people at the time thought something and therefore voted, of course it was not a mistake, but then in a week to come and say something, but here we do not give you the right, you must return "mild or force". This is not good for Parliamentism, for Parliament, for democracy. But no matter what I say, I will support the law and also this part of the SLS effort to put some things into effect, which, in my view, are fairer, better and reflect some common concern for the whole system. However, I do not say this because I would like the SLS to also support the law, I am convinced that it is in this way that one broader alliance is being built for the law and I absolutely count that in the end all the arguments that have been said will prevail in this direction, that they will also vote for the law and so I imagine this action. So there is nothing wrong with this amendment, as there is nothing wrong with those matters around the army, where it is proper for those who were thus employed that year or that time when they had to serve the army to be recognized. Nothing's wrong, and I don't think we should be doing too much circus. I am sorry that we have not managed to protect the second pillar in the part that now takes place ten years from payments, because it is so clear here that we are citizens and citizens who are unequal before the law; one after ten years they can raise these payments with appropriate taxation, the other in prison, not, and they will only be able to apply when that retirement period occurs, the time of retirement. But I am saying this because it seems to me that in the whole discussion there is only an emphasis on the first pillar, and I think that we must – and so I thought in 1999 when we adopted the law and when we introduced this second and even third pillar and so on – that the first pillar of the first year will be the social guarantee, if I can say conditionally so, although it is insurance, it is payments, it is the rights of this title, but it will be individuals, and I am doing it, with the second pillar saving for retirement, for a better pension, for a better position when we wait for it. This emphasis, although it incorporates this law, also stimulates it, was too little: how to protect what is already paid is not enough to convince employers that they will continue to insist on payments. The estimates are different, the expectations are different, but mainly the pressure is on because obviously this general climate of mismanagement in terms of: because the long term of the pension fund will not and will not be given, it will be better to raise what it is, and it will be as it will be later. This may be the case, but also in the future, bet that the second pillar can be an important item even for the time when – I hope – the time will be better, that the cashier will be able to pay enough to sustain the system, but if there are problems and it will not be possible to reach that height, I think the second pillar will be the one that will help those amounts that will then come from the first pillar. I think there are really too many hard words today, too many perceptions, what suits someone, what doesn't suit them, what doesn't fit the current opposition or coalition, etc. It is a matter of improving the system and it is therefore worth supporting, following up on these matters. Hotels or not want citizens and citizens do not separate according to whether the electorates of any party are, but only those who are these measures, these decisions that we make are linear, are valid for all. That's why this kind of weighting, some balancing, finding some arguments, who's more state-made, who's more concerned about people, is, in my opinion, unjustifiable, and still needs to be repeated, probably even before the State Council, probably also publicly, that the time has already been said to look at where things are going, and what those accelerations in this law that will make this system so that people will not be afraid. I do not hope that they are not species, as predicted, that species are on the SPIZ, where people are calculating, how much they are missing, what if tomorrow or 14 days is by the end of the year, only they could escape what awaits them in the uncertain future. I believe in the country, the country will take a long time and will take care of people in one way or another. I'm sure of that, because if I wasn't as old as I am, and if I hadn't experienced some things in the last 25, 30 years on my skin, I'd think there's no hope at all. On the contrary. I am firmly convinced that most of these measures, which are here, will achieve positive effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Get Milenko Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will also support the law and support those amendments adopted in the second reading and have not led in a direction that would actually improve the law, for those amendments or those proposed amendments I will also vote on. While I will not be in favour of those changes that will further undermine the final objective of this law, this is the sustainability of the pension system, the provision of sufficient resources for the financing of pensions of future generations as well, and in particular the failure to increase the burden of the active population, because I think this is very important. The fact is, what we heard earlier from colleague Žnidaršič is that young people ask or think seriously about simply stopping paying pension and health insurance is a risk that is not entirely without real foundations. I don't think we can afford that kind of risk. Not just because the money's gonna run out in the pension register, and not just because the money's gonna run out in the health register. A company based on intergenerational solidarity, which is no matter what is bad, which many in this Chamber can say about the period 1945-1990, that company was built in Slovenia or, above all, in Slovenia not only on intergenerational, but on the general solidarity of the entire social structure. And we must not have this solidarity because of short-sighted and short-term concerns, in particular because of the concerns that are called "only for my mandate, which is beyond my mandate, but I don't care" or "after my death the world can collapse" or "after my departure from politics, the world can collapse" – I think we can't really think this way. This is not about state-of-the-art, it is not about calling on some consciousness for this society, but it is primarily about thinking that the values that some of us like to talk about are at the heart of our current, at least now existing internal relations. And by this law, in fact, we are somehow strengthening these values and for the following, we can say, for 20 years – and I do not hope to say that this system of current levels of contributions will last another 30 years. It is enough that in the medium term, over the next 20 years, we give ourselves time to look for perhaps more quality, more innovative, but especially for all people in this country, good solutions. Not that, like in the last few weeks, we receive signals once from one or one of the other, once from the third mouth, I would rather say, not from the other, that we should introduce or introduce a social cap. I have to say, if anything, then it's a thing that I personally, and I think there's a lot of other people, not just in the coalition, but in this entire room, there's no way he can and can't accept, it's a social cap. To talk today about the social cap, when we need to provide money for us to be able to pay pensions at all, to pay health services in the right way, from public funds, which is really not a peak for me, but a sublime neoliberalism. I also think that it will be necessary to seriously consider that, in the next steps, we will achieve a gradual level playing field for the employer's and the employer's pension insurance; what the whole of Europe has – indeed almost the whole of Europe – I will not say the whole, because some exceptions are, among them, the most dishonorable exception is us. So there are things we can't just leave behind the will of some really negative neoliberal ideas that we have in our country. That is why I call on all those who think not only about the pensioners, but also those who will provide the pensioners with the means to pay pensions, to reconsider and support this law. I think it is worth trying to see a little of ourselves and to consider whether the current political situation is really so difficult that some of us in the hall can be here because we think that we need to change or consolidate the pension system, that we are drunk, junkies, and I don't know what else we have to listen to today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Certainly, I cannot support the law in such a form, because there have been too many reservations, and because it can also be compared to what is happening in other countries of the European Union, where they are also aware of the ageing of society, but their reforms are slightly different and, of course, the sustainability of their system is different from ours. Our incoherence is also largely due to non-discipline, non-payment of salaries and, consequently, to contributions that have grown significantly during the time of this government, and apparently does not have inspectors from all other authorities to ensure. If an ordinary citizen does not pay for electricity, it is shut down, but if a large tycoon does not pay social contributions for his employees, he can only whisper about it. For example, I would also take the reform in Hungary that we discussed at the last visit, and there are, say, some solutions that would suggest bringing them to us. For example, bringing all these additional voluntary pillars into one and one. As a result, the record and traceability of the deposits require a savings account for the pension and then the pensioner gets what he actually paid. That marriage is bad, there are many amendments that some have already adopted, and then we do not even know what state they are in — for example, the one for the military. The excuse that 60 million additional costs cannot be afforded is, of course, a twisted vine. In a country where there's a whole bunch of inherited investments, strange investments, where it's not hard to give 130 million for some mayor's mayor's campaign, for social security, or for people's, because we all went to the famous JLA with great enthusiasm, and there's no money for that. Of course, there is something left of the rest of this marriage after it has been drunk from all sides. For example, I find this equation to be strange for 30 years, and then 3 less favourable for me to subtract from it, which is 27 years for me. Why don't we take 27 into account why the opposition's positions and coalitions don't get closer here, and we say that for 27 years. I'm sure I'll be happy to count back these three years when I was a trainee at the expense of years when I was a technologist and paid a lot of money. So there is certainly a second flaw in the law that already there is a real retirement age there at 38 years of age and 58 years of age and younger, as we had a record young pensioner, whom I think has been activated back. For 100,000 unemployed people, primary concern is how to reduce and hire them by at least 30, 40 thousand, and how to start paying contributions to the pension register immediately would be sustainable for at least some time. Such an incomplete law, which has comments at all levels, not only in the opposition, but also in the social partners, the chambers and so on will experience the following epilogues, but can already veto in the State Council and then referenda. At this referendum, however, people will go mass, there will be no excuse that there were not enough voters, but it is very likely that there will be another referendum that will be lost to the government. Maybe not with a catastrophic result like the last one, but certainly lost. Finally, I would like to discuss the referendums; the referendum is the last weapon, the last hand brake when we turn to people to tighten the hand brake by their declaration at the referendum or prevent the Government from carrying out some very incomprehensible move. Perhaps it would indicate that this marriage has yet to come to an end. There may still be solutions in other countries of the European Union, not on the nose. However, this law may also need to be a smoke screen in order for other matters to happen in the meantime when people are upset about the inadmissibility of this law, but in the meantime something else will happen, or perhaps there is a good scenario to promote a particular party or group of parties who are decisively opposed to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kampush has the floor to prepare Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u76	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, as well as the amendments that improve this law. It is true that we are at the third reading today and that in the first and second many things have been said and I will not allow myself to repeat myself. On my part, I will only add that we are likely to be able to set a little example in particular in other European countries that have already responded to the relevant importance in their countries and have already adopted reforms. As elsewhere, as with us, countries have had problems, had protests, had considerable opposition, but it is necessary to ensure the long-term sustainability of the cash register and, of course, have been able to go through reforms. In 2000, the last pension reform was nothing encouraging, nothing good — the fall of pensions all the time. So, now is the last time, the last time for Slovenia, to try, as you all claim today, from the first to the last, to step together and to seduce things by bringing the pension reform through the procedure. It is true that the relationship is already unpleasant today, that is, 1.66: 1. In Slovenia there is already a very unpleasant situation and to make it worse, of course, it would be incorrect. In simple words, the treasury must be sustainable so that we can have decent pensions. But decent pensions not only for those in the pension system today, but also for those who are preparing, even for the younger generation, even for the middle generation. Today we have heard, everyone, from the youngest to the one before the pension, will support this pension reform. It is true that the relationship between day and day is getting worse. I expect you all to support this reform that we have on the table today. This must be our common interest. And this is a common interest in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u78	Very nice greetings, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I, too, have recently had the opportunity to hear that our pensioners are concerned, as well as those who are about to retire in the short term, and especially this concern about how the pensions will go forward, especially since there has been so much demagogism in our policy lately by some. So, to be more clear, showing all the activity as a bad one is especially important the fact that it is not always and often not a real picture displayed. And this real picture mainly concerns 470,000 pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia, of whom 277,000 receive old-age pensions, 97,000 invalid pension, 85,000 family pension, 10,000 700 farm pension. However, it is right not to forget the 770,000 working - day population, including 104 thousand unemployed people. And also, as the Secretary of State has said, it is not 114 thousand unemployed, but 104 thousand, and the others have now been taken care of by certain changes to re-income and have the opportunity to work. Today's times of economic crisis have not bypassed the Republic of Slovenia and, as Mr Minister has pointed out, it is essential to provide support for pension reform at this moment. Today, it has been repeatedly said that one of the major structural reforms is pension reform. Retirement in the Republic of Slovenia is among the most favourable at a given time and has the most favourable conditions in Europe. We have almost the highest life expectancy in Europe, and the most important fact, as Mrs State Secretary stressed a good half hour ago, is the need to ensure that decent pensions are received in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore pension reform is necessary, but it is closely linked to the sustainability of the pension reform system or in relation to the state treasury. We know what the times are and that it is necessary to ensure that the present rights of our pensioners do not deteriorate. I belong to a younger generation myself, although at 21 years of age and 40 years of age, I must admit, I really don't think about my retirement. But I don't care about all those who are retired and all those who will soon be retired. Therefore, as has already been pointed out, early retirement in the event of health reasons will continue to be possible. It is right to look ahead, and it is right that we are realistic about everything. On the one hand, we would be in Europe, on the other hand – because it is somehow logical for each of us to want the best possible conditions in life and to want to be as good as possible in relation to retirement; but, if there is no means and if we want to ensure that decent pensions continue, we must also take on this important pension reform. So, I look forward bravely, I wish our pensioners weren't so worried anymore. I am sure that today the most retired are watching and listening to us and that it is right to stop horses in such a way that we can actually say, but not demagogic, so in a bad way, that we are not criticising only, but we are really telling what is the fact and that we are particularly ensuring that pensioners continue to receive decent pensions. Indeed, for the sake of good mental well-being, continuous emphasis: bad, bad, not good for human health, not for the health of our pensioners and not for the working population, we must therefore support this reform. On the other hand, as has been pointed out, ensure that the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship are able to employ a young working population. I will support the pension reform, but I will certainly also advocate that we also allow further employment for young people, work for farmers and certainly not only try to look at everything from the dark side, negative, because I am sure that the worst times have already passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Mr Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u80	Nicely greeted! Today's debate is typical of such debates as in previous times, when we adopt some laws that some say are not necessarily necessary and then list us even a number of others that are absolutely necessary. Even pathetic rumors about how to be sober, how to stop doing stupid things, and so on are out of the question. We're not all from today, and we've got a few miles behind us. It is clear that this legislation does not only cover pensioners, in particular those who enter the labour force today, that intergenerational solidarity is very intrusive and that the thinking that DeSUS belongs to a pensioner, that he will take care of Zares for a young person under 18 years of age, for a slightly older SDS and so on, is out of the question. We all care for all generations here, for those who will be born, and for those who end their lives. And it's an extraordinary populism, a battle for a place of popularity on a scale and so on. It does not matter how we will survive these reforms tomorrow and how we will ensure adequate pensions for young people, as it has been said a hundred times that today's pensioners will not get worse if this law is passed, but yes. Thinking about men serving the army 24 hours a day and then having a double confession — yes, and mothers also breast-feeded at one o’clock in the morning. What are we going to do now?Oh, my God! I think that we are really not contributing to this in order to acknowledge that this legislation is absolutely necessary, that Minister Svetlik and his team have prepared it extremely well, well promoted it, very easily explained the most difficult issues and that we should say thank you very much for all this effort to him, the committee and many others. I am sure that this legislation will be adopted, but there will be some problems. Union leaders, as has been said, will take responsibility – please! When they threw stones into parliament — who took responsibility, who? Dušan Semolič retires and wants this to be the bulk of his union activities. And all politicians are corrupt souls, and he is a politician himself his whole life, because he is a member of the State Council and so on. Things need to be made clear, and let us give, let us work together for the good of all. The amendments were very large and I think that this law is well prepared and has a good starting base, it will certainly not be valid for 30 years, because it will have to change a lot, but with this law we allow existing pensioners to have decent pensions and young people to get a pension; but we will all work more. Many of us are here for so many years that we may already be retired, and probably not feel no, disabled or incompetent, and that we can contribute to the development of this society. We'll all work harder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Get Bogdan Chappich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So, I can say that there was a great cross to this law because it was not coordinated, it was not coordinated with the social partners, nor with the employers, nor was the opposition in line, which you are now asking that we should support this law together. Yeah, where were you when you were making the marriage? Where were you when the first reading was? Even more, we have offered you a partnership following the example set out in the previous mandate so that you can participate in important laws, but you have arrogantly refused. We have also prepared a certain package of laws, and you also said that laws are not suitable for further consideration. At the time, I said that I wondered whether the government was fit for further rule. And now it looks like I was right that my question was completely justified. Moreover, we certainly cannot say that this law is a developmental one; it is neither short - term nor long - term. Some of you have defended this law by also preparing a change in pension legislation in the European Union. Yes, it is, but today it is practically all Europe from the crisis. The German economy is said to be on the same or even better track as it was before the crisis. What about in Slovenia? We're still down to 8%, we're still down to 8%, and every day we're up to something, let's say, gasoline is more expensive today, and that's one of the biggest increases in gasoline, taxes are higher. In addition, I can also say that this is one of the laws they are taking, and I hope to say something uncritical: it is taking state pensions, including those with 180 euros of pensions, which are not even that large, 10,000, we have heard. And you can't find that money either. It is said to be taken again by those who need it most. It is also taken on some social transfers. Representatives of the ruling coalition say it is a difficult economic situation. Yeah, of course it is, because we all know that. But why is the economic situation difficult? Who's been ruling for two years? Who has been a government for two years and has refused any help in drafting laws? You're not even that good to say, okay, come on, and we'll see what we can do. No! No! We're not taking you into partnership! Every law we prepare is not suitable for further consideration. That's a lot of arrogance. Now you're asking us to support this law. You know, that's something that doesn't go together. You say that this law is supposed to be supported by the fact that decent pensions will continue, but at the same time you say that the system is no longer sustainable and that something needs to be done, and that you are committed not to break the pension system. At the same time, you say you're increasing your pension. Something doesn't work out here. If you increase your pensions and the system is before the break, it'll break first. Let us pour some pure wine! We don't have to, because we know what it looks like, but don't bullshit and don't lie to those who listen to you! That's the whole problem with this government not to say what's true. As I said at the outset, the problem with this law is that it is not harmonised. You're saying that we're breaking up, that we want to break this law in the SDS and the opposition. I'm sorry, but who first said he was against this law? The ones you didn't take as partners; these are unions, employers. They're opposed. They oppose this law because you did not feel worthy to listen to them to the end, to harmonize with them and to invite the opposition after all. Now you're asking us to support this marriage when you formerly arrogantly drove us away. So, we don't break this law, the law will be broken by someone else. We tried this marriage, which is not the best thing for us to do, but unfortunately, it didn't work out either. Some of the less important things you've taken into consideration, but the essential things you haven't. And if you experience a fiasco, write it down to yourself because you didn't listen to the social partners. You didn't even listen to the employers. And given how long this has been going on and how things are going on, it seems to me that it's not a pension system, it's a political project, maybe even a political space restructuring. That is why I think it would be good for you to learn this for the next time, to fully comply with those with which you would be good and from which you expect support in other important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joko Godec. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Janez Kikelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I think I have 47 seconds. Today we discussed all living things in this assembly. I've been listening to everything since the referendum, and you've even gotten on the fuel, and some even talked about alcoholism. We are discussing a new pension legislation that we need to support. I think this should be the goal of all of us. Let us be aware that the population is getting older, that in the coming years the cash register will be so burdened that even the current pensioners will not receive the decent pensions that have been said here today. The paradox of this whole debate or the state is that this pension reform is largely supported by the younger one who will hurt us the most, while the current pension population, through its political party, opposes it. So please, let's support [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Kikely. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Let's get Mr. Villa Trofenik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting. So, I'm not going to back up the pension reform proposals and talk about how bad it is and how important it is that we all support this and what goals we all have to have together. It is likely that the first goal that everyone should strive to pursue is to strengthen the economy, because otherwise it will not only be a pension cashier’s problem, but also everyone else’s. And we can read this: about health problems and then save on those things where it's least necessary, for example by reducing gynaecological departments and delivery departments and so on. With the great reform that took place in 2000, some things have been settled and accelerated, so that the retirement age has been extended, but we have not yet achieved everything we wanted with that reform. But the fact is, it gives results. We estimate that it is not a problem to renew the age or working age, but to ensure that more people are paid into the pension allowance. Of course, 104 thousand unemployed cannot do that. It is therefore essential that we do something about it and that this should be our first and common goal. And to say that we are all worthy of pensions – of course, but after the pension reform in 2000, the then ruling coalition, of which many are still sitting in the ruling coalition, decided otherwise to coordinate pensions, worsened the essential situation of the pensioners, there were no such big words that everyone must have a decent pension, but you voted very simply one for it. And if it were not for another government, which then repaired this coordination in 2005, pensions today would be even worse, even less worthy of a life. By calling and knocking on our conscience and telling us how bad it will be if we don't support the proposal, it's the least hypocritical not to say anything else. The fact is, even with this reform, if it enters into force on 1 January, it will not be known for five years. We know each other more or we feel worse because many more people have retired this year and last year because of the already said fear of reform, which has proved to be an anti-reform. That is why I will not support this proposal alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor to prepare Mr Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! I will uphold the law because I want myself and for my children the conditions under which we can create. Who today thinks that we do not need such conditions to have enough created in this country is simply not properly divided to vote against. With such a voice against, I am confident that I will tell young people that they do not have to try to create, not to try to contribute, because they will not get anything from this society until now. Let them sit down and wait, and most of them are one way or another — according to the demographic picture — only ones and inherit what they have to inherit and survive the rest of their lives. They should not have a child because they will not be able to support them in any way during their active years. However, for us who have naively decided for our children and who will not inherit enough, it is best that we take the path under our feet and look for a nicer home somewhere else. By voting against this today, you will also make it clear to Europe that it should open its wallet and, according to the Greek and Irish example, prepare loans for Slovenia as well. With a voice against you, you will guarantee what you say in this room and in front of the cameras over and over again, how everything "does not count" in this country, that it will be the truth. That's what's gonna happen to you. To call the opposition, because some say we should sober up and others hear that they want us to pour them pure wine, all I say is, "The Shank will shut down and there will be no more for any of us."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that I do not ask anyone, I do not expect anything, but I will do as a Member what is my duty: I will support the pension reform because it is simply and simply necessary. At this point, we can't share more than we have. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Minister, all co-workers have invested endlessly much time in preparing, coordinating, negotiating, negotiating. The product that we have before us today – and I am sure that we will accept it because it is good for this country, good for pensioners who accept pensions, good for the middle generation, which pays contributions and good for young people who are still waiting for work – is a product like that. In these negotiations, unfortunately, the negotiations could not be reached. Statistical data is an inexorable and simple fact: we pay as much as we pay in our pension allowance, our life expectancy extends from year to year, which is good and right, and we have to take care of everything: those who have paid in their pension money and have earned their pension in blood. We have a great responsibility to them so that our pension will not be reduced due to an empty pension allowance. We want to provide them with a decent pension. The middle generation must, of course, have the hope, on the basis of an intergenerational agreement, that we will allow such a system, which will also encourage young people who will pay for us, etc. At this point, it falls or there is an intergenerational agreement. Whether we want the pensionable public finances not to be sustainable, give a clear signal to young people that there will be no pension for them, that they will find themselves in different forms of espionage and other forms, that they will pay minimum contributions, without responsibility to those generations before them, and then take care of themselves. I don't think this is the right way to have a story today where there's not a lot of options at all. The pension reform needs to be confirmed, I think we will meet again sooner than in 10 years and there are no other exits. We have talked a lot about these state pensions, the status gains are difficult to take and break if we do not give up here, we will give in the area of social transfers, because we have guaranteed, and Slovenia is a constitutionally social state to ensure survival for all What was happening in the field of military and motherhood was large, and the possibilities were significantly smaller. I am aware of what is possible and perhaps what is proposed by the professional services on the basis of the calculations at the Ministry and I will support these amendments myself. Above all, I would like to say that today we are talking a lot about distribution, about sharing, that it is time for all of us to talk together and look for solutions to how we will create more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, four seconds? No, no, no. Dr Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, thank you very much for the discussions that I have listened to with joy and interest, and now allow me to briefly highlight the essential elements of the law that you will then vote on. So the first important dimension of this law is the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity to be strengthened. We will fortify it by increasing the inflows to the pension fund and reducing the outflows. We have six essential measures available for this purpose. The first step is to extend the work activity. Age 65 and pension age 38 or 40 years, or age 58 or 60, depending on sex, and pension age 41 or 43 years. I would like to stress this in particular that the pension period, which has already been exposed in the debate, is not the same as the working time. During the retirement period, there is also a time when someone was not active, or contributions were paid, or this retirement period was bought, so that none of this is lost and there is a mistake or even a malicious display, as if the law would take away any of this from anyone. Let me also say that in Montenegro they are adopting a pension law where the minimum age of 62 and the full age of 67 will be the same as France has recently done. And we talk about two years less and work from this drama, instead of looking at what's going on in our environment. Of course, early retirement is also available, i.e. age 60 years and retirement age 38 or 40 years with suitable young people. There are some that are disturbing, but they are already in the system, everywhere, where there is a difference between early and full retirement age and they are generally bigger than we suggest. The second measure is to collect contributions from all forms of work. Anyone who has not contributed to the full workload, even if he has only partial or part-time work and so on, must pay full-time until he collects contributions for the full burden, and, of course, from the extra part, he pays contributions from all forms of work at the level of the employer’s contribution, including from a small part, so that additional resources are provided for the pension allowance. Thirdly, raising the minimum contribution rates to 60% of the average wage, which you discussed extensively as a problematic measure. Let me tell you that 70% of self-employed people today pay contributions from the minimum wage, including those concessionaires who pay from the minimum wage with state money, while at the same time investing large amounts of money in their personal property. At least, calculated to 60% of the average wage, this contribution should be raised if we want to have an appropriate contribution to the minimum pension base guaranteed by the State to every citizen, otherwise all of you and all of us will be subsidising those who pay too little. Fourth measure, suspension of the possibility of postponement or cancellation of contributions. There's a lot of talk about that. The law makes it clear that what happened in the past is no longer possible, even on the basis of the experience we have. Next, the determination of rights for which no contributions have been paid, a security allowance, including extraordinary pensions and so on. And extending the period for calculating the pension base to the 30 best consecutive years, with the exception of the three worst, which is not the same as 27 years. You must already understand that. And it is particularly important to point out that this is a question of justice, because it is wrong for some to play by paying only a certain small number of years and then to afford minimum wages and to demand a pension of the best 18 years. The second objective is to stop the fall in pensions, where we will fix the dose percentage to 80, which would otherwise fall to 72 and a half. The second measure to reduce the drop in pensions is the abolition of the horizontal equivalence of these pensions or pension bases, which also affects up to 20% of the lower pension rate. And a new way of coordinating the pensions we have agreed on with a special insurer that pensions can never be coordinated less than the increase in the cost of living, which means that we secure the pensions of all pensioners at least by following the cost of living they have. Let me also point out those benefits that were less discussed in the initial proposal, and then we introduced them into this law in order to make the law nicer. We have at least 7 important measures here. One. It's a children's time bonus. Deduction from full age to 58 for women and 60 for men after 8 months for children. This means, theoretically speaking, that a woman can have benefits for 10 children and a man for 7 children if she can enforce all these benefits. The other one. Time bonus for the military. Counting down from full age in the full scope of compulsory service and also cheaper to obtain this period, which is more than in the current law. This is where we even spread our rights. Why not include military age in retirement? It is simply that right now we should give directly 60 million a year just on account of these people going to our early retirement and not paying for our pension. But there are many who have already bought this time and rightly demanded this money back and here the costs are unforeseeably high. Thus, we do not imagine that these costs would be covered in the future period of the pension fund. However, it is particularly important that, if we are to aim at extending the activity, such a measure would ruin a quarter of the impact of the whole law on this point. And this is what leads us to believe that we cannot really accept such a solution. Then there's a third benefit. Possibility of reaching retirement age up to 5 years. From whatever: Whether it is a study or anything else, everyone can buy it, regardless of what he did during the period he buys. Next. Financial incentives for staying in employment after meeting the early retirement requirement. 20% of pensions up to the age of 65 may be received if they remain active after meeting these early conditions. Next. 2% higher dose percentage for each year over 25 years. Currently, he gets 1.5% more for each year. So this is the added benefit that this system offers. A partial pension is possible, when a person receives a partial salary, a partial pension, this pension increases by an additional 5%. And gradual passages. This is also one of the benefits, whether it is a 4- or 6-month step when it comes to extending the retirement age or age. Once again, the effects we are expecting are particularly the following. First, old-age pensions will on average rise from 5% to 19%, starting old-age pensions, and most importantly those with the lowest incomes, the lowest wages. And it is difficult to talk today about how many people, how many pensioners today receive very low pensions, while voting against this law, which actually raises these pensions. The second effect of coordinating existing pensions, which will be different than it is now. If we look at the impact of harmonisation under the existing law on the data expected for 2011, we would be harmonising this pension at 2.25% in full harmonisation. With the newly agreed formula, at the time of the deletion of Article 151 of the current law, 60 % on the basis of wage growth and 40 % on the basis of the cost of living, these pensions are raised by 2.54 %. It is said that more by a new formula than by an existing one, which means that this law must also be supported because the current pensioners will be coordinated at a higher level than they have been coordinated or coordinated today. The next effect is that after the end of the transitional period, we will work on average for two to three years longer, but because of all the benefits mentioned above, some will really work until the age of 65. All these benefits, which have been incorporated into the law, will enable a faster exit. Let me add that the arrangement whereby early beginners can retire after 41 years of women and men at 43 years of age of retirement means that all men who started working twenty-two years ago and then worked continuously and all women who started working twenty-four years ago. Which means not only those who started working after primary school, but also those who started working after high school. So it's an extremely wide circle of people who can actually benefit from these bonuses. However, the argument that it will not be possible to work as long as it is repeated must be placed in the light of this solution and also in the light of the solution that there is an opportunity for early retirement in the pension system, either with the small ones or for partial retirement. Someone who is no longer able to work full - time may decide on shorter working hours and a partial pension if this solution is more appropriate to him. And not least, what Mr Znidaršič said, there is a good system of disability insurance for those who really cannot work forward and disability pensions are more favourable than old-age pensions. Thus, all these exits are available to all those who will want to end their career differently than to work until their full age, as foreseen. Pensioners will receive the same pension period as now, regardless of the length of the activity, the life expectancy is also extended, so that the retirement period will remain around the average of twenty years after that period. Last but not least; what is supposed to be an effect is a truly stable pension box. We are not saying that it will last for the next 30 years, I do not know who has heard such a statement, although we have been talking about the 15- to 20-year period since the beginning. In view of what we have later incorporated into the law, of course, we have changed the assessment to 10 to 15 years, and such a solution as we offer it provides a functioning system during this period. And if I finally ask if these are the effects – and we believe that they are, no one has proved to us that these effects will not – then who will tell citizens and citizens of Slovenia why they did not support this law, why they did not support this law, why they did not support that pensions will be increased, that they will be better coordinated than they have been before, and then they will be provided with a permanent payment of pensions without intervention laws, as we have seen them today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I conclude the whole debate on the law. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2010 I am moving to the debate on Article 134 and the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, given that the Government has made an amendment to the adopted amendment to the second reading, namely the amendment to delete this third paragraph, with which we have said or adopted a solution to the compulsory service of the military term as a retirement period, we have given, I would say, an adjusted amendment or a transitional period to enter into force next year after four quarters of the year and only then four years later, in full. It is a period of compulsory military service in the former Yugoslav army and compulsory service in the Slovenian army. This is an interim amendment against what has already been adopted at second reading and the Government deleting this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment of the Government or the SLS Group to Article 134? The explanation of vote will then, now is the debate. After the debate on all the amendments, we will move to the vote and then we can explain the vote as usual. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 134 and place Article 391 and the amendments of the SLS Group in the debate. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much again, Mr President. So this is an amendment, or a solution, which the Group of Members has always advocated, or it is also a state pension issue, which we have discussed in the law on social transfers in July of this year. So, while we advocate that state pensions remain, since we have by no means obtained this agreement in the Government and in the coalition to remain state pensions, we propose that, for the second time – at second treatment and at third now – that state pensions remain with those who already receive it. So it's about 15,000 beneficiaries of this pension, as I said earlier in the Polish group's opinion, it's about 180 euros and, in fact, the state pension will not be new after this amendment on the date of the entry into force of the pension law. So, in any way these rights are acquired, according to our assessment, this is also a constitutional category in accordance with Article 155. These are low amounts and these are beneficiaries who will be reduced for biological reasons. This is because they are beneficiaries who will not need to be re-established every year through a variety of certificates and so on in order to obtain a minimum [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 411 and the amendments of SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I shall put to the debate Article 429 and the amendments of the DeSUS Group Members, point 2 of the review, and the SD, Zares and LDS sent groups. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Our amendment is to add the 12th paragraph, with which we want to put pension coordination at the level that was in force in 2009 and 2010 to 50%. With this, we want to improve the economic situation of pensioners, and this is our position and also our amendment. If it is also supported by Members and Members of Parliament, we are prepared to end up supporting the law, not only in this article, but also in the next article, which is under Article 430. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. At the same time, I am informing you that the amendment of the DeSUS Group for the new fifth paragraph, which is the first of this review, has been withdrawn. I am putting to the debate Article 430 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you again very much for your word. We propose to delete the seventh paragraph of Article 430 concerning formula 70:30 and the time of entry into force. This is a formula agreed upon when we were excluded from coalition coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. You want procedural, Mr. Kumer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a 15-minute recess for consultation in the Group before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u103	This is a requirement before the vote, so I give 15 minutes' rest. We'll continue at 3:20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u104	Colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and the point. We're ahead of the vote. I'm asking Mrs. Kumra, she doesn't want to. [[...]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 134. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u105	Your Honor, good bye to all of you! In the second reading, the National Assembly adopted a supplement which is important as it provides that the period of actual service of a military term for which an individual was not involved in compulsory insurance shall also be considered. To put it domestically, it's about serving in the former JLA. No one that year, some even two, even longer, went to the former JLA voluntarily. This was the obligation of the State which was implemented under strict duress. Thus, an individual was deprived of the possibility of paying his contributions or continuing and completing studies for that period. This year he had to work 24 hours a day for the country. The country did extremely wrong when it did not pay its contributions. Of course, there was different legislation back then. And if we came from it, we could conclude that the individual had rightly expected that this would be counted for him during the retirement period. The issue of the right is also a matter of trust. And the right is supposed to come from the word righteousness. However, what the Government is proposing to remove from the law is extremely unfair to all those who have been forced into military service, some who have lost their health, have had lasting consequences. Because the former JLA wasn't, as is romantically shown today, a blacksmith of handsome boys, but a giant brainwasher. I personally know at least two cases when individuals refused to enter the party in JLA and therefore ended up somewhere [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u106	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u107	at the Albanian border and never fully recovered. [[...]] So now that they have lost their health because of something that the state has forced them to do, they have to pay longer, with their work, the retirement age for those who, rarely privileged, either serve in the vicinity of the home or even avoid serving the military hand, meet him only as a fugitive, or never had one. Is that fair? I'm saying no. On the contrary. In this case, the State must certainly take care to ensure equality before the law, so that they are basically equal to the starting point of the one who had to serve the military period and the one who did not need to do so and thus took care of the payment of contributions and everything else and thus for his retirement period. It is therefore certainly necessary to maintain this provision in the law. The SDS Group will therefore vote against the government amendment to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the SLS Group Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that again. So, given that the Government proposes the deletion of the third paragraph or the elimination of this adopted amendment of ours in the second reading, where we voted an amendment to be considered during the period of compulsory military service in the previous JLA or in the Slovenian Army, even at the time when this service was compulsory. Given the Government's proposal to delete, we have put forward at least a little compromise proposal where this inclusion in the pension period will be fully extended to four years in the next four years. So in the following year, one quarter of the actual duration of military service, then half, three quarters and full. By voting against the first and voting in favour of the second amendment in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the first amendment to Article 134. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 34. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 134. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 391. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors, Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much again for your word. I don't know how many times I've called about state pensions. In opening, I say that we will support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. In my presentation of the Group's position, I said that an elderly woman and a few men would not empty the pension register. It is those pensioners who were granted a state pension on the basis of the law we passed — again, I do not have accurate data — around 1999 or 2000. The number of beneficiaries of this pension is currently around 15 000 according to the data of the PIZ. And given that we have made a compromise proposal to preserve this pension for all those who are already receiving this pension, while potential new beneficiaries will be able to run under a more difficult procedure in accordance with the social transfers law we adopted in July this year. Certainly, those pensioners who have been in the past period during creative years have not had the opportunity to protect themselves under any law, after any activity, and are pensioners who, at the time they reach 65 years of age, also have virtually no assets to support themselves with. This is also the case, as I have pointed out earlier, for the constitutional category, for the rights acquired, at the end of Article 155 of the Constitution. And it's also a question of what happens if we don't accept it if there's a constitutional complaint. So, as it is said, it is a small number of pensioners, it is a compromise proposal that will not grant new rights to new pensioners, and, as we say, these already strong older people will not empty the pension register. We will support this amendment in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, he wants to explain Anton Anderlich's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u113	I will vote in favour of the amendment, as I announced in the debate. I am sorry that things in the National Assembly are being done in a way that changes the substantive amendments in the third reading, regardless of whether they were adopted in another, but that is the will. In this amendment it is simply incomprehensible that it only had to be designed and submitted at the last stage. I hope that Mr Žerjav will not be angry with me if I support him, given what has been said this morning. I just don't think it's necessary for us to interfere with the law if, in some other cases, the Ministry claims that it would be an infringement of the rights acquired, such as the withdrawal from the second pension pillar, this would be all the more so if those who have obtained those rights had previously been on the second list. I believe that the state should make sure that these people survive, because this is basically social support translated into this state pension if this is how they simply try to say it. Therefore, it seems to me that it is no different than to support that those who have acquired this right and who have fulfilled these conditions under Article 59 are, of course, to be preserved in this way. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u115	Hello, everyone. I'm sure I'll support this amendment myself. A decade ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia found that it was necessary to wrong those people who had not been able to protect themselves for this or any other reason, with this state pension, about 30,000 of these pensions. In the annual report we received, the Institute of Pensions, disability insurance is that at the end of last year there were 18 thousand of these recipients, we now hear that there are 15 thousand; it is said that the number of people per year due to natural laws is falling and therefore it seems to me that this would be one of the biggest injustices that would have occurred in the area of this law. That is why I also appeal to you, dear fellows and colleagues, and as my colleague Presecnik said: these women, these men will certainly not empty this cash register for us. The fall is a year, I think the fall of these recipients is bigger from year to year. I hope that the National Assembly will today make the right and morally just decision in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Am I going to make an application? Just one more. Mr. Pukšič, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. As has already been said, the recipients of a state pension from the data of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance for 2009 are around 34 million. They can reach out here and wipe out. So, these state pensions will be gone. After 65 years, since 1945, and if they were then 15 years old, they are now 80 years old, and we still have 22,000 members of the National Liberation Army. And the intervention in constitutional rights or acquired rights is also about 40, 39 million and something or even more than the recipients of a state pension. But since the recipients of the state pension are not fighters from NOBs, they are purely ordinary farmers and farmers — you can take them! That's why I'm against it, and I'm going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. I see there's more than one hand. I'm sorry, I'm asking you again. Well, you have a chance. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This amendment, of course, is not an ideological one, but a substantive question. Slovenia is a social state and if we do not guarantee this right from the pension register, we will need it on the other hand from the social treasury. It is right that the rights acquired are not taken back and I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. So, colleagues and colleagues, as I supported this amendment in the second reading, I will support it, of course, even in this reading. However, I support it for reasons of principle, because I object to interfering with the rights acquired, which is also constitutionally unacceptable, and because I am convinced that if there was a constitutional opinion of this article, of course the legislator would have very serious problems here. So, I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on behalf of Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you. I will also support this amendment, and not least, it is almost certainly for the state pensions received by rural people and it is still difficult to provide any additional income, so that these few less than 200 euros are extremely important for the preservation of rural life. Last but not least, I am convinced that if we took that right away, it would be very difficult to defend it before the Constitutional Court. I think it's more right to support this amendment and solve it, I think it's a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you. I will vote in favour of this amendment as I voted in the second reading. You can check if you don't believe it. And so I voted for a number of reasons: one reason is that I join those who say that this is constitutionally controversial – if not controversial, at least problematic – and therefore we cannot simply interfere with one law in the right that man has acquired by decision. That's one. Secondly, I would like to point out that although these state pensions are very modest, the income of women in particular is very modest. And here I would like to point out that these state pensions have often been received by households, who were not only in farm households, but also elsewhere. As a result, I would like to ask you not to talk about the fact that farmers have been prevented from paying pension insurance because, since 1974, we have also paid farmers part of our contribution to pension insurance. For this reason, of course, I think it is right and fair for farmers to receive pensions, because in the end we have contributed for them too.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, re-circuit. So I'm opening the application. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u127	Well, of course I'll support this amendment. As I can see, most colleagues, some of them later, missed out. I think it's also an interesting tactic: first you take something, then you let it come back and you stay beautiful. Even though you didn't give anything, you're generous. That's a lot more than it's ever been. It reminds me roughly of that story with excise duties on electricity: first increase them dramatically, then lower them a little bit and tell them that you have reduced excise duties. So, Your Honor, good deal for this reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u128	Please, don't argue, just reason for the voice. Explanation of the vote in his name, Jakob Presectnik. It applies to the previous and previous pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. So I have already said in the opinion of the Group that it is essentially for people who were not insured or could not be insured, of course, different professions. This morning I was talking about those on farms, small craftsmen, small craftsmen's wives, and so on. So, many different categories of people, kinds of people. If we go to see a list of these, I don't know how many there are now, about 16,000, I guess, according to some data, they come from different environments, but above all they are people who have virtually no income, and this is in most cases their only source of survival. Of course, we passed a law in July, which is roughly called the Social Transfers Act, but again every year these procedures need to be reintroduced, which is certainly not easy for these people, certainly not stress-free and so on. And once again, this problem of rights already acquired and the constitutional category, I think I've said everything. That's why I also assure you, in my name, you probably don't doubt that I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We don't doubt it. An explanation for Franco Juri's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you, President. I too will support the amendment, as I have actually announced in my debate. For, in fact, it is a good amendment, an amendment that allows for the preservation of the acquired right and thus avoid any constitutional judgement. But it's not just this formalism. In fact, it is about preserving this social dimension; after all, pension law is actually the only way to preserve the social state. And if we keep such guards within the legislation, I think the public will understand it better too. Therefore, as a vast majority of Members, even coalition members, I have no doubt that I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's too bad this wasn't the last vote today. I apologize for the comment. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 411. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment, this is the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 429. So, the amendment to Article 429, the amendment of SD, Reals and LDS sent groups, was first the second, but the first amendment of DeSUS was withdrawn, which is why it is now actually the first amendment. To get the approval of the professional services – don't you think, Mr. Tanko? We are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to the 429. In the review you received at the table, this is under number 2, but because the first one was withdrawn, it is actually the first time that the vote was reviewed. Please. So it's clear to everyone what we're voting on? Yes! We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 429, which is essentially the first since it was withdrawn, under number 3 you have in your review of the amendments. An explanation of the voice? It's not. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS delegation to Article 430. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Since the amendment to Article 200 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the parent working body, the proposal of the law became inconsistent and the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 209 which you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? They don't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. I am applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of SDS Ambassador Branko Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u133	In the SDS Group, we will vote against the poor, unfair, poorly prepared and with the social partners of the uncoordinated Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In particular, our voice against the totally wrong policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has done so in a cyclical way, will open this topic several times in the last year by giving a signal to many individuals that they have retired as quickly as possible either to the institution and thereby increased pressure on social transfers and the pension allowance. In view of the fact that there are a number of credible testimonies that civil servants have advised in institutions how best to overcome existing regulations, that they still belong to retirement under the old law, we cannot avoid assessing that it was a deliberate policy, that this artificial supplementary retirement would somehow result in an outflow from companies and that it would artificially reduce the number of those that companies would have to forgive and thus artificially increase employment but in the way that pension stores and future generations would pay. This way, it is extremely harmful for Slovenia. The way this government and this coalition have embarked on these reforms is politically unacceptable, as the negative social partnership, the negation of seeking the widest possible social consensus on this so important social reform, has at the same time been shown in the wrong way, as if it were an ongoing economic reform that will help to accelerate development in a moment. In fact, it is something that has long-term effects, but in the short and medium term, the impact of reform due to the failed approach of the Government and its coalition to implement it will be completely negative and, for Slovenia, will literally be destructive. There will be fewer employee incomes, fewer cash deposits, and more beneficiaries under existing legislation. So there's going to be an increase in outflows. We will pay this in the long run, Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises as the engine of development [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and all those who will pay taxes and contributions in the coming period. So our "against" will be against a bad marriage and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Why do we oppose pension reform in our parliamentary group and party? It bothers us not to be immediately established and fully established. It's supposed to come into effect with 1. 1. Its entry into force, however, depends, of course, on the intervention law which freezes certain matters which are covered by the pension reform or by the law. We demanded that last year's agreement be taken into account. In last year's agreement, pensions were to be coordinated in half between 2010 and 2011, of course with the intervention law. There has not yet been a wage freeze in the public sector, and it does not seem fair to us that the harmonisation of pensions has been linked to the public sector. The financial implications of half-coordination are €32 million, and one quarter, as we have already heard many times, is €10 million. Thus, €22 million should be provided with funds for the coordination of pensions. We have said that the average pension with a security allowance of EUR 576 is that the average wage in the public sector is EUR 1000 220, so I think and in our group we do not think that there is a proper link between these two entities. On 5 November 2010, we are very disturbed by the agreement on wage and other remuneration measures in the public sector for 2011 and 2012. A few pages of A4 are written to the union when these same unions and representatives of the government discussed how they would freeze their salaries if, of course, they freeze their pensions. Why weren't there any pensioners here? This isn't DeSUS, probably, but we have representative pensioners. I think it would be right and fair to invite them, of course. That is why, of course, we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much again, Mr President. It's been 11 years since the previous pension law was passed in the grave. The situation has certainly changed significantly since then. The situation has also deteriorated significantly in many areas of pension law, particularly with regard to demographics. We are confident that these indicators will continue to deteriorate in the coming years, so surely the time will soon come when some minor changes will have to be made again in a few years. We are aware that the pension law, that pension reform is one of the major structural reforms to be undertaken and adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, because not only does the financial situation of the pension fund lead us to this, but many other indicators do not mention demographic indicators again. Of course, I cannot help but expect this government to behave responsibly in many other areas, which would, of course, lead to greater economic growth, because it alone depends on the development and financial stability of the country as a whole and not only from the pension fund, such as the reduction in the cost of the country, such as what I am saying, increasing the investments that we have practically closed or have completely eliminated from the state budgets, further economic incentives, development incentives for the economy, etc. I mentioned some things in the opinion of the parliamentary group that we have listened to and taken into account in this debate; such as parenthood, which means parenting ratings, such as the gradual tightening of pension conditions, such as electronic insights into the data at the PPIZ, and what we think is very important: what we voted before – and I thank all Members and Members when we voted on the maintenance of the state pension – also a state pension as a status for those categories of residents who have the worst financial or property status. Since I have been counting down for seconds, let me say that for all these reasons, the Slovenian People's Party Group will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The SD Group will also vote in favour of the law. It is not true what some say that there is no need to adopt a new pension reform. The unmerciful demographic situation – on the one hand the happy event, the extension of life expectancy, and, on the other hand, the ruthless little birth we have witnessed in Slovenia for two decades, are forcing us to accept the reform. We will also support this reform because it makes it possible to achieve both fundamental objectives, and this is to ensure the sustainability of the pension fund on the one hand and on the other hand to prevent the further fall in pensions and to ensure social security for future pensioners. Finally, it is important that this pension reform ensures a higher level of solidarity than before and that intergenerational solidarity is also ensured as the foundation of the pension system in Slovenia. In particular, I would like to say that I also thank all those who have participated constructively in the debate. We have accepted as many as 30% of the amendments of both the opposition and the unions, which proves that this is one of the reforms in which we have really tried to find consensus; only, the agreement is always the willingness of both partners to reach agreement. We will support the reform because we are responsible because we do not want to close our eyes, that if we do not accept it today, we will accept it tomorrow under much more difficult conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm opening the application. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I have wanted for quite some time and hoped that the applicant would listen to the wishes and needs of the pensioners and the Dessus Group, but this did not happen, so I will vote against the adoption of this law. In fact, two amendments were rejected in this Chamber some time ago by the DeSUS Group. The first amendment envisaged that pensions would be aligned to 50% in 2011 with wage increases. You said no. The second amendment envisaged that the so-called Swiss formula would not be applied, but that the alignment of pensions would be 70% with wage growth and 30% with the increase in living costs. You've also, your respected colleagues, vehemently rejected that. With this country you saved 120 million or for a short time every year, in four years pensioners paid and will pay debt to Greek pensioners. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Miran Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. It's not about the law, or at least I'm not, because of one good solution and one bad solution. It is voted on by the law on real social conditions and on our future. I am sure that it brings much good and that it is absolutely necessary to accept it. If anyone, after the last discussion by the Minister of Labour, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, in which he presented all the solutions in the law, including those who make things worse, still think that the law is not worthy of support for the creation of a pension system that will ensure the stability of pensions and the possibility of retirement for all generations, then I think he has not listened well and I advise him to read at least when his discussions are published in the media. There are many reasons for adopting the system and, above all, none for waiting and going into uncertainty that can cost us a lot in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u145	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this law myself. I would say, not a very light heart, because after some of the framework calculations, I calculated that I would work almost two years longer than I intended to work. But the laws are not written for me, the laws are not written for anyone in the National Assembly, the laws are written for all of us. Above all, not because of pensioners who already have pensions, but because of all those who will be eligible for pensions. This law allows the Republic of Slovenia in the circumstances we live in, I think most of us are not even to blame for being in this situation, which is the fault of the global crisis, but this law allows all of us to receive pensions. I wonder what all those who today so vehemently reject this law will say to themselves and their friends when they ask why we do not have pensions today — ten, fifteen years from now if the pension system breaks down. And I don't know why I would reject it if, by all calculations, including experts, not just politicians and governments, it shows that pensions will be higher, from 6 to 19%. The one against having a pension and having a higher pension is foolish. So once again, I say, "Yes."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you. True, we do not adopt laws because of individuals or because of individual solutions that have been or have not been adopted at the time of consideration in the National Assembly, but because of what these laws bring to society. And given that I am well aware of what awaits us in the next twenty, twenty-five years, if we do not adopt this law, I will, of course, support the law. I will vote for him to me and all my peers in my generation and all those who come after me and will be in the short term in retirement and all those who are already in retirement and because of my children and the children who come after them, so that we, our generation, will not be left with no pension or very poor pensions, and that these children will not be able to pay impossible high contributions because those poor pensions that we are supposed to distribute from their resources will be able to cover at all. So I think that those who vote against this law vote against all generations in this country; and those who vote against this law vote against social solidarity in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u149	Your Honor! A reflection of the high political culture and maturity of each authority would be that in such important matters as changing the pension register, it seeks the broadest social consensus and consistently respects the social partnership. We followed this principle in the SDS and offered our own hand at the beginning of this mandate to the Government and the rulings, and it was categorically rejected. But now we are witnessing extreme misdirection and, you will admit, a situation that is hardly compatible with the concept of political culture. On the one hand, within the Government itself and the ruling coalition there are groups, even parties who categorically oppose the change in the pension allowance and, on the other hand, by their insistence in support of this same government allow the implementation of policies that have led in practice to the inflow of additional individuals to employment institutions or pension and social transfers and have caused even more fragmentation of the scissors that will sooner or later break down on small and medium-sized enterprises, on employees, on pensioners, on all. This missed policy, ladies and gentlemen, will pay for generations more and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Of course, I will not support this law because I am convinced that this law is not an anti-crisis measure, I am sure, and the pensioners are not guilty of the situation and this economic, financial and social crisis in this country. If the army of the unemployed, 120 thousand unemployed, had a job, the pension register would be full, the health checkbook would be full and the state budget would be full. We would not need such legislation, so I am convinced that this law is not an anti-crisis measure and there is no reason why we should now adopt a bill such as that on the table. Nor does this law contain a personal pension account, which is extremely important. It doesn't contain it! So that any insured person could know at any moment how much money is in his account, and you could calculate at a given time how much his pension would be at that time. The Faculty of Economics also calculated that pensions would be reduced by at least 12 % to 15% due to the longer period of pension calculation. She calculated and proved with documents that pensions would be at least 12% to 15% lower! It was also adopted without the consent of the social partners. And if this authority or this government is going to solve the economic, financial and social situation in this country in the way I have now said, then it is logical and clear that something is very wrong here. In addition, the Minister of Government said yesterday: "The government has lost its development focus." With this she said everything: what is going on with this government and how citizens and citizens should believe this government. I will therefore vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also vote in favour of this pension reform, but I must say that we are not in the Slovenian People's Party and will not support this coalition. And never and never and never then will we join this government. We're not a reserve for anyone, and we're not gonna be a backup for anyone. We support this reform; the reform which I think is necessary. It is essential that we unload the Slovenian economy for a long time. The bill that will have to be paid if we do not accept this reform will have to be settled. I do not agree with the fact that this account would settle the Slovenian economy, which is currently, in my opinion, already significantly overburdened and therefore completely uncompetitive in the European market. I am aware of the personal political risk that this decision is accompanied by. But I firmly believe that people need to be told what is right and not what people want to hear in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice on behalf of — who else? I'm opening the application. Explanation of the voice on behalf of Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u155	Labour market reforms, the rights of public servants, pensioners and pension reforms are being adopted all over Europe today. Interestingly, opposition to these reforms is the most acute in those countries that have collapsed financially. We know how it is in Greece, Ireland, Spain and so on. There are also many things wrong in Slovenia. We have undermined all the trust of society in all institutions, in us, respected colleagues and colleagues, is said in Parliament, in the Government, in the judiciary, in the owners of capital. We didn't know how to deal with tycoons who had unjustly acquired a lot of property. We have dramatically increased public debt. We couldn't start economies, we couldn't start public investments, we couldn't properly draw on European funds. Thus, the circumstances for the adoption of this legislation, these reforms are very difficult, and I am sure that those who support this reform will not receive ovations, will not receive great political points. However, I can say peacefully that we have been very responsible in the Slovenian People's Party since the beginning of this reform. We wanted to participate constructively and responsibly in it and much of the solutions, such as the last, uniformly adopted state pension, the Parenthood Prize, were also accepted. I can also say peacefully that I accept this reform and will confirm it as a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia because I feel responsible for this country. I feel responsible for the current pensioners, the working population and our younger ones who are coming after us. In no case are we talking about supporting a policy that we do not agree with in the Slovenian People's Party, but we are talking about supporting the reform that Slovenians and Slovenians need, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you, President. Of course, I will support the pension reform for a simple reason, because it is time for us to support the pension reform in Slovenia as well and ensure some solidarity for all generations. This has already been done by some countries in the European Union in a timely manner. We are also late in this area, which is why I propose that, after many times said today, we try to unify and support this pension reform as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! This reform is not ideal. He gives everyone more than they want, he doesn't give anyone as much as he wants, but the best is possible. That is why I will be responsible for supporting this pension reform with the thought of my old parents, parents and my generation and my children. It is true that it would be better if you accepted the consensus, but as has already been said in the debate today: consensus always requires at least two parties who want to agree if one does not want to, consensus is not possible. And when it comes to convincing one side or the other, you need to know how to listen to the arguments, but you need to have them first. If someone does not want to hear the arguments – of course, he cannot be convinced. If someone does not — of course, we have nothing to listen to. And now we are here where we are, and I hope that a sufficient majority of the Members and Members of the National Assembly will press "for" and thus allow one future for this country and its social cohesion, which its citizens deserve. Maybe even consider those who hesitate. Even in the fight against intelligence, for example, the Butlers won, so the Butlers were the winners. What this victory has helped them, and you can think for yourself. Even if a word may mean defeat in the short term, I prefer to be defeated in the short term, but in the long run, I am smarter than anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we will be defeated in the short and long term by all the inhabitants of Slovenia because of such a government and such a rule. Otherwise, this law, which we confirm today, cannot be supported in any way. It was a lot of beauty-telling, a lot of deception, but if we simply explain the matter: this law essentially takes rights already achieved, prolongs working time, reduces pensions, demolishes young people in order to even want to work, and not least all those who have contributed much to this cash register so far or in these decades, are indisposed that they will have to work even longer and that they will have to work even more, at the expense of those who should not be entitled to it. However we look at it, this law is now, although you give it a lot of emphasis here as a reform law, it is in no way true. I'm sure that this way, when you just take the rights, when you just squeeze, it's not a solution that lasts 5 years or 10 years. If we are not looking for a solution that will primarily contribute to more inflows into the pension register, that we will have more jobs, that we will have more demographic populations, which will then be able to contribute to the pension fund through its work, then no reform can be successful. That is why once again: this law is not reform, it is a short-term measure that will affect pensioners who will harm all those who are active and, above all, will demotivate young people, so this law is bad and should be repealed. I hope that if he is confirmed today that he will be definitively rejected by the people through the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you. Your Honor! The final product of the law is not ideal, but it is certainly what can be accepted in the given situation, because there is simply no other option. I firmly believe that the improved version, which was produced at the time of discussion and adoption, will also be accepted by trade unions as an argument which will not force them into a referendum that would cost four or even more million tolars without need. I'm sure it's not a good thing that at the time of the adoption of this marriage, there was so much panic over how terrible it is to work a little longer. I am convinced that every work is honorable, worthy of man and no one will have to do more than it will be able to do. For this reason, I am convinced that it is good for us to adopt similar solutions, as is already the case in many countries that are far richer than we are, but have extended the working time. It is not possible to work less time than we will receive a pension, and this solution means that what we have achieved in maintaining pensions or their levels will be at least that and something better than what we have achieved so far. That is why I am convinced that it is right for the marriage to be supported and that I will therefore support it. But I must say that, for example, farming is certainly not easy, but I know very few farmers who have not worked for the rest of their lives; on the one hand because they had to work, on the other hand because they loved to work. And I like to work alone, and it's been 70 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Yeah, I'm reopening the application. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u165	So, respectable. I can't support this marriage and I won't support it. It has been said that it takes virtually all groups – both pensioners and active ones – and particularly discourages young people to take on forms of insurance. But it's even worse, and that's why I applied for this explanation of vote as regards the economy. In fact, this law places an additional burden on economic operators, increases the contribution base and will nominally increase contributions, and worse still places an additional burden on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or independent entrepreneurs. I think it has been repeatedly exposed to the fact that in times of crisis, when the economy needs oxygen that it does not have in the financial sector, it does not exist in the country, nor in such conditions, that it needs an economy of incentives, of burdens rather than additional burdens. And these additional burdens are stifling those efforts that we should all have together, stifling efforts at new jobs. And the great downside of this pension reform is that it does not create a broader basis for paying contributions, does not create new jobs, and if the Government would take this more responsible action if it also proposed measures to promote economic activity, create new jobs and expand payers to the pension fund, and this would be enhanced by measures to improve jobs, i.e. for technological breakthroughs, for jobs with higher added value, which would consequently also increase the number or paid contributions, then we could talk about some comprehensive, supportable reform [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] However, it is only a partial measure that will soon experience changes and is obviously also agreed on, so that it will "go through" even through the veto.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on your behalf, Matthew Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u167	I will support pension reform because I believe in a social state. The pension system may be the most important element of the social state. I believe that in this society we are able to make social arrangements, so that we can all contribute together to the benefit of all in this community. In the debate on pension reform, it took a long time to hear how we are abolishing the social state. On the contrary, precisely because we want to remain faithful to this social state, we are aware that if we are to preserve it for future generations, this social state needs modernisation. Over the past 20 years, many politicians have lost the courage of many governments to do what should have been done in the country. That is also why the weight of the reforms we are making today is so much greater. I want to be on that side of history that is responsible for what needs to be done in society, so I will vote in favour of pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 35. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 4.40 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda – Issues of Members and Members. So, I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, and we will continue at 4:40 a.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u169	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. I warn my colleagues to sit in their bench and stop talking. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions on the thirty-three questions raised by the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government in order to remind you now that the President of the Government has warned me that he will not be able to join us on account of international obligations until 5:30, so we will continue with questions to the Minister, unanswered questions from the previous meeting, and when the President arrives, we will, of course, stop these questions and we will go to questions to the President of the Government, as is usually the case in this assembly. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, we will place the issue at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Mag. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource responsible for Development and European Affairs, and Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous national community in neighbouring countries between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. As I mentioned earlier, we will ask the Prime Minister’s questions when he joins us in the hall – at 5:30 p.m., I am informed. We therefore turn to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 22nd meeting of the assembly. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Mr Židan will first answer the question of the Council of Likar as regards the inactivity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the area of calls for proposals under the measures of the common agricultural policy. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u170	Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, you have asked a question! I have to answer the following. From 2007 until now, we have had more than 60 tenders totalling EUR 500 million. Even after the use of resources, we are among the most successful countries within the European Union at this time. At the moment, we are in 7th place with 36.5% of the rural development programme used. The Ministry shall publish an annual indicative deadline programme. Why frame? Because we have been coordinating with NGOs over the year in such a way that funds can be used optimally. There were 21 calls in the indicative plan this year; up to this point, 11, plus now three have been published, and at this point two more are being prepared. This is a call for the modernisation of agricultural holdings for investments in plants amounting to EUR 12 million and for increased forest economic values of EUR 2.5 million. In operational dynamics, I would like to say that we are coordinating with NGOs. This is because, in fact, we have received an initiative from NGOs to change individual calls in a way that will make administration easier. We can only change the administration system by changing the rural development programme, which is changing at the annual level. At this point, we expect confirmation from the European Union, so that we will then publish some individual calls immediately at the beginning of next year. In addition, we have agreed with non-governmental organisations on another principle, this is the principle of waiting for the individual call to be completed by issuing decisions to be reopened. Why is that necessary? To the extent that an individual farm is not in an impossible position to open a new invitation to tender without knowing whether or not it has succeeded in its role at the first invitation to tender. Allow me once again, Commissioner, to say that we are currently drawing on the EU's resources, so that we are among the most successful members. However, I think it is very important that we coordinate with non-governmental organisations in individual calls all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Likar, would you like to complete the Minister's response?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for that answer as well. I'd like to ask you the following questions. Julia, I think this invitation to tender plan has been published. Until last month, when I asked this question, this plan was on your website. When I asked this question, this plan changed and, as I anticipated, most of these calls were carried forward to the following year, several calls were made in December as well. I asked you what caused this deviation from this plan, because we know that the rural development programme covers measures that normally concern individual producers and are defined by programmes. Their aim is to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of agricultural producers, as well as the overall development of rural areas. Farmers, or potential users, or those who wish to acquire these funds, have likely calculated that these invitations will still be published in this year’s yeartime, although it is also difficult to draw on these funds. I want to know: Is there any reason to deviate from these activities, or is there another cause? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u174	Allow me to further explain. We have decided what I think is only right to take into account non-governmental organisations, i.e. farms and agricultural economies, in order to make additional use of the funds. In fact, it has happened to us that there have been many more applications for individual tenders than usual in these years. We had no problem with the call for a new call, but we asked their representatives, what I think is right, whether they want us to immediately repeat the call or wait for the decisions to be issued and then repeat the call. And in this case, we followed the NGO opinion. What I want to say again is: it is our duty to reduce administration. Unfortunately, administration can only be reduced by changing the rural development programme that we really need, and now we are waiting for confirmation. I think that we have done some of the invitations to tender to the Slovenian farmer and to the agricultural area just a favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Dejan Židan will also answer Darko Menikh's question about deadlines for the preparation of municipal spatial plans. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President, again. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is one of the agents in regulating space under the Spatial Planning Act, as well as issuing opinions during the environmental impact assessment phase under the Environmental Protection Act. The Ministry shall issue guidelines and opinions. However, we must say that in 2009 and 2010, we received 417 applications from the municipalities, of which more than 100 initiatives had to be identified on a case-by-case basis. At this point, there are 171 of them left in rescue. We are aware that we are running late, so we have begun to implement an action plan, which means reallocations, because we are aware that we must move late into the ongoing processing of these applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Please, Mr. Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer, but I would still like to ask about the deadline for obtaining these guidelines, which is an unreasonable debt. In fact, if I may speak of our congregation, the congregation of Šostanj. As early as November 2009, we had a coordination meeting at your ministry, where we touched on certain things. Then we received an invitation to supplement the application, which we also did, and in May 2010 we submitted this necessary additional material. Well, we've been waiting for more than seven months since May, and we haven't received any answers. So I would ask that we speed this up a little, because we have major problems in our congregation with the preparation of the UN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u180	Yes, Commissioner, he believes that there is a delay at this time, unfortunately not only in this area, but also in administrative matters. If we did not implement the operational programme at this time, the actual applications would only come to the hearing – here I am referring to applications in the form of complaints because we are a second-degree body – in 2012. We are also aware that, at the time of the staffing restrictions, when there are no new jobs, the number of employees is even lower, so that this problem will be solved by redistributing people within the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Dorijan Marušič will answer Ivan Grill's question regarding the change in funding for pharmacy activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u182	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Grill! For the second time since I took this position, I think we've been talking about pharmaceuticals. We both know that this is regulated by a law that was passed 18 years ago and that it is likely that the law governing this area cannot meet all the challenges that both demographic, logistical and infrastructure changes pose before the pharmacy activities, not least when it comes to EU entry, and therefore it is likely that systemic changes will be necessary. So, I'm sure that the problem of small pharmacies, if I may call it that, which we both know very well, will probably not only be able to solve with the funding system, but we will need to approach systemic change. It is true that representatives of small pharmacies have repeatedly approached many ministers before me, including me, with certain adjustments. We talked about a possible approach to the model, so-called more profitable, if I may call it that, take the pharmacy and tell those who are less profitable. In the first group, they were as private as most of the public pharmacies and after studying this model, I could not give my consent as a minister because the question is whether it is stimulating and the question is whether it would also solve all the issues that are significantly broader. Indeed, the anomalies observed are likely to be linked to an unequal market situation between public and private pharmacies, i.e. between concessionaires. Let me remind you that public institutions dealing with pharmacy activities are at the primary level established by the municipality or city. We can also often see that they can also reach local levels in setting up these pharmacies in some sense in an area where they are more or less economically profitable. There is, therefore, a potential conflict of interest in granting concessions to carry out a pharmacy activity in the sense that a concession may be granted at some point where it would in some way be economically less profitable. This is a major problem for small pharmacies – I join this opinion. This could be a problem with profitability. Another advantage or disadvantage is that public pharmacies can also be connected horizontally, while private pharmacies do not need to be connected. So, I have listed some proposals that I think will need to be addressed through systemic law, but not just through a funding system. To prove or prove to you that I have a hearing for small pharmacies even with the changes that they have tried to introduce this year through the Department of Health Insurance. It is the enforcement of the price associated with medicinal products that are comparable to each other. Indeed, with very frequent changes in the price of medicinal products, some pharmacies could have stocks, which, of course, in a smaller pharmacy, causes significantly more problems than in the larger ones. The Institute has requested that this coordination period be zero days. In our agreements and agreements with small pharmacies, we have agreed to resolve this in some way with a seven-day deadline and here we have reached agreement. In short, I would like to insist in some way that I am aware of the problem of following it, but I think it is the right approach to amending the law, which is difficult to promise sooner than next year. So I hope that in some way I have at least pointed the way of thinking. Systemic changes will be needed and solutions will need to be sought not only as they have been proposed, so that more profitable ones will be given to those who are less profitable, but to look for some other stimulants to actually solve the problem of small pharmacies, which are very often or most often in rural areas where interest is, in my opinion, not only local ones, I would say that also national levels to solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u183	He wants a reply from the minister? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Here, of course, I fully agree with you, Mr Minister, that such a way of financing that endangers the functioning of small pharmacies, especially the affected people in rural areas, which are mostly elderly people – without transportation, is difficult to reach the pharmacies I agree with you that this problem is not simple. [[...]] We discussed this thoroughly a year ago, even before you took over this function, then pointed out some solutions and also pointed out the anomalies present in this area. It is likely that one of the models could be that, above all, prescription drugs, which include 80 % of traffic in small pharmacies, are paid by the health insurance company in a slightly higher amount, but obviously no agreement or model has been reached. That is why, of course, I agree that it is necessary to seek a systemic solution, and as I know, this year, somewhere in June, all those information from pharmacies was transmitted to the Ministry, you are said to have formed a group that will try to prepare some starting points for amending the Pharmacy Act and also for the financing of pharmacies. And I want to know: Maybe there's more to it than that now? The deadline you set at the time was the end of the year. But there's something else I'd like to warn you about. I find it unacceptable, as a Member, that I believe that we also allow the public to tolerate such anomalies as they are mainly present in Ljubljana, in the Ljubljana Pharmacy, which profits, of course, are created, then they spill into completely different areas. This is inhumane, it is unfair that at the expense of health someone can serve while in other areas people cannot get to the most basic drugs, it is in small pharmacies. This means that such anomalies should also be systematically viewed and tried to be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u186	Dear Mr. Grill. Yeah, I got this more comprehensive analysis and the view of the small pharmacies. Given that we have reached a very constructive agreement with our partners to conclude the 2011 agreement for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia before the end of the year, so that the contractors will have a contract as early as 1 January, the commitment of the Minister to all partners is to resolve the most pressing issues with each one. This was also agreed with the agreement reached by the 7-day deadline that we would try to resolve the hottest issues in the group of the Ministry and the Pharmacy Chamber, and this is one of these. At the same time, two weeks ago, we presented to the public a strategy on the development of financing models. I come from the Health Council, where a representative of the Pharmacy Chamber also gave an initiative to place a solution or model of funding for pharmaceutical activities. After seven months of the ministry, all I can say is that I want to do as many things as possible, but it just doesn't work out. I hope that in 2011 the problem of pharmacies – here I am also joining your thinking – will somehow be better solved than it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I am aware that with the constructive cooperation of the National Assembly with you, Members may also be able to contribute to the search for these solutions. I would therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, propose that the National Assembly should hold a general debate on this, in my opinion, a very important issue where we will try to examine or confront all the arguments that can now be present in this area, and this contributes to helping you, then, in the following year, to find - or to change the ways of financing or regulations - a solution to this area of regulation. For, as I have mentioned, we must not allow people in rural areas who are already affected in one way or another to see that we prevent them from reaching that minimum of their needs in the field of health. I therefore propose that a general debate be held in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rado Likar will now raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Finance, Dr Franc Križanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As we could read in the media, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, our largest bank in majority state ownership, has two different strategies for future development: one was prepared by the administration, also approved by the supervisory board, and the other by you at the Ministry of Finance. Dr. Marko Kranjc, Governor of Banka Slovenije, publicly described the strategy that you have put in place at the Ministry of Finance as misleading and strange, because it is completely divergent with the strategy prepared by the Administration, which has already been endorsed by the Supervisory Board. According to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the strategy prepared by your ministry is misleading in the sense that the stability of our banking system ensures the majority of domestic ownership in our largest Slovenian bank. In addition to the interest that the largest Slovenian bank is owned by a majority of the state, it believes that adequate cost efficiency, capital adequacy and the appropriate relationship between indebtedness and stable resources should also be ensured. Each responsible owner, even if it is a country, should ensure this, because, while the bank's capital is always rising again unknown where and taxpayers must recapitalise the bank due to losses. It also refers to the fact that the newly established capital investment management agency started issuing instructions and decrees as soon as it was established, which banks such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova KBM can do and cannot do. This is totally contrary to the rules of governance and the principles of the market economy. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Under what strategy will the New Ljubljana Bank be considered in the future? Who actually manages the New Ljubljana Bank? Is it the administration and the supervisory board, or is it the Ministry of Finance as the representative of the owner, or is it possible for a newly established capital investment management agency, or is it even possible for someone in the fourth? I also ask you: In what sense do these two strategies differ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u192	Dear Members and Members, Mr Likar! On 8 September this year, you participated in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which adopted a decision and ordered the Government that the Republic of Slovenia should not reduce the existing ownership share of NLB until the adoption of the country's capital investment management strategy. The Ministry of Finance followed the decision of the Members. Due to the systemic importance of NLB for the Slovenian economy and current developments in the financial markets, we have in less than a month prepared a strategy for managing the country's capital investment in NLB. I repeat, the country's capital investment management strategy in NLB. The Government confirmed it at its meeting on 28 October 2010. You have noticed well when you mention the second strategy, but pay attention to the clear difference between ownership and management function. From 2010 to 2015, the NLB management prepared the NLB strategy. This is not defined as ownership relations, as it is the responsibility of the owners, but rather defines the business policy of the bank. The responsible owner, the responsible master, will, of course, be identified to manage his assets, but he is not in charge of changing, amending or otherwise processing this strategy. The strategy is the one adopted by the Administration and endorsed by the Supervisory Board – as far as the business strategy is concerned, and we have a ownership strategy. This was also the responsibility of the Government. We are convinced that NLB must maintain and strengthen the role of one of the leading banking service providers in the region of South-Eastern Europe, and therefore, in our view, the sense of withdrawing from these markets is questionable, but there is, of course, a strategy adopted by the Supervisory Board. Since we are also helping the Slovenian economy in the financial markets, it would be least unusual, if not entirely paradoxical, to fund the owners to reduce the bank's credit activity – and this was, as you say, a publicised proposal for the bank to reduce the financing of the economy and the population after a successful recapitalisation. We expect a reduction to take place in other markets, not in ours. Any responsible owner would wonder whether this is normal, but fresh capital should be known both on the market and in business. It is no secret that there are also differences in the issue of the sale of Bank Celje, a solid, good, local bank whose history dates back to 1864 and whose business is expanding to Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper. Wouldn't it be better if the NLB attached her?Oh, my God! This addition appears to disagree with the central bank, but we want it to write it down in fact and publicly, and then there is no alternative to selling it. The addition would bring the regulator's requirement for higher Tier 1 capital closer to being met. This is also one of the objectives of recapitalisation. In any event, the owner clearly expressed his will to manage the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB. As a Member, you are certainly aware of the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. This is a basic act for the establishment of an agency for capital investment management, which is independent, independent, professional and operates in accordance with international corporate governance standards. They will, of course, manage the ownership function on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, they do well to be active, determined, and persistent in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for this part of the answer, but I am interested in the following. We know that the NLB Assembly has adopted a decision on 250 million recapitalisation. I want to know: Is there, in fact, a interest of the NCBs to maintain their equity or what its contribution to the recapitalisation will be? Is there also the possibility of the exit of the NCBs from the New Ljubljana Bank? The question is also raised: Will this 250 million euro be enough, or will taxpayers have to be cut back in their pockets in the near future? And the story will repeat itself. If Nova Ljubljanska banka goes into disinvestment: Did I understand that this means selling the Celje Bank? Is it possible that it also means withdrawing from foreign markets: Serbian, say, and Italian? As far as I can tell. Is the fact that you have prepared your strategy at the Ministry of Finance, a reflection of the bank's management's mistrust, and will change again soon? A review of the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank is expected, which is also expected to be followed by a change in administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u195	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. Therefore, it is quite clear that the ownership management strategy is one thing and the business strategy of the bank is the other. This business strategy was prepared by the Administration and adopted by the Supervisory Board. The management strategy shall be a management strategy in accordance with the instructions and views of this Parliament and the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. As far as recapitalisation is concerned: the recapitalisation requirement was made to increase ordinary shares if I say so at home. Thus, in order to increase this capital, which is clearly equity, it can be sold off, it can be withdrawn in its own way. It's not about some subordinate debt instruments. In this context, the figure ranged from EUR 200 to 250 million. Owners are negotiating how to recapitalise, or maybe include third. In this context, we are also renewing the Shareholder Agreement. This renewed shareholder agreement will also define how the NCBs will exit from the bank, protect the interests of the owners and also the interests of the bank after they remain a healthy, strong and competitive institution. More on how the negotiations are going on, I would not explain. And of course, they're run by the agency. As a ministry, we are mainly involved as one representing the country in relation to recapitalisation. It shall now take over or take over the post of negotiator of the Agency for the Management of State Capital Shares.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The new Ljubljana Bank is our largest bank, which is extremely important for the stability of our public financial system and, of course, also for the pockets of us taxpayers. Clearly, this duality or strategy of the Ministry of Finance and various management strategies leads, in my opinion, to the apparent lack of confidence of the Government in the governance and control body of the New Ljubljana Bank, which I think is harmful. The frequent exchange of supervisors and board members also confirms this – I would say, a constant struggle in the coalition for the political control of our largest bank at a time that we know – according to some data – is facing a hundred million loss. I am convinced that this must be discussed and the relevant decisions adopted, and therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly at its next meeting do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Likar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education protects school space, its autonomy from intrusion of political action in particular. Several times, Mr Minister, you have pointed out some of the phenomena that point to the politicisation of school space and the violation of these rules. On my own, I would like to remind you of two recent violations. In this way, the e-mail of the employees of the school will circulate a letter inviting one of the Members to participate in the referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and to vote against it. It's the use of school computers, so to speak. The second case is linked to calls for a civil initiative for family and children's rights. Members and Members of Parliament have also received their calls relating to non-compliance with the Family Code and they have, in the school field with unfounded arguments, fomented a resistance against human rights workshops, which have been under way in Slovenian schools for more than 10 years. At the same time, civil initiative stated that workshops were spreading a radical homosexual ideology that was supposed to change the sexual orientation of students and therefore required the ban on Amnesty International Slovenia and Legebitre. That's why, Your Honor, I'm asking you: What will the Ministry do in both cases, since it is an obvious politicisation of the school premises and the abuse of the school field for very political purposes? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! I think it is right that we pay very close attention to every minimum "strandisation", so this is not just about politicisation, which is a broader concept, but about the use of the school field for client purposes. I have already talked about this in matters that are particularly related to the thickening of political space, which is during the period of elections, referendum or the period of adoption of laws that are more or less sensitive to the Slovenian public. That is when it seems to us that some of the Members or leaders of the parties give up some fundamental value framework, which in fact we all have in Slovenia in relation to the school field relatively properly. That is why I think it is right that the National Assembly is also dealing with this and that the Ministry is also involved. So, I'd like to say that this is the last event related to the referendum. We went to look, too, and we received from the Ministry a notice from teachers that there was an expansion of the positions of one of the Members of the National Assembly. We checked and found that this happened mainly at one primary school, that it was an expression of position, an dissemination of the position, a vote against the referendum, and then a broad explanation on several sides. This is something that, in my opinion, is not legitimate and not good for school space. In fact, schools are not good at instrumentalising their own views or views. The next issue is related to the topic also raised by the Member of Parliament, which is the question of the dissemination of a civil initiative. In this case, we have done what we think is right. So, we've been addressing all the schools with questions about how they've been experiencing the operation of known NGOs, namely Legebitre and Amnesty International. Schools responded and told us that none of the sex practices in their schools were particularly promoted, so it is not about any dissemination of the ideology of any of the sex practices. Well, that's one thing. That's another thing. I spoke to Legebitra and Amnesty International personally, and we also formally asked them to tell us who was doing this and what programme. The program is in line with the goals, it is repeatedly verified, people who go to schools also have appropriate education and are also tested by quality, and finally there are teachers who check what is going on there. We also asked this civil initiative to serve us with facts and to this day they have not answered – they have no facts. Even if you were careful, in all the media they didn't serve with the facts of who he was, or just say that there's some wrong ideology spreading here. And look what's going on! Schools, as soon as this campaign began, began to stop cooperation with NGOs, not only with these two, but also with others; and this is bad for the school space, because we have a purpose – and I think we all share – that schools are also associated with municipalities, NGOs and, finally, individuals like Members, including mayors, and are familiar with these broader issues. I think this kind of action is damaging to the school space, and it's only right that we find this together and tear the species apart and say, "We won't leave the school space. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I hold in my hands the joint messages, findings and conclusions of young parliamentarians and parliamentarians adopted by the 19th National Children's Parliament in 2009 on the subject of love and sexuality, this has happened on 23 March 2009, and from the chapter Love I will read to you in one way or another: "We have also talked about same-sex orientation and we have devoted quite some time to this topic. We have found that young people are very open to these issues and that they can be an inexhaustible source of discussion, but the society in which we live should be more tolerant of the same-sex issues. With regard to the possibility that the same-sex people could adopt children, we have found that it is more important that the child is happy with the adopters than that the child is unhappy in any other family or unhappy in any of the institutions." We could talk about many things; youths might say that sex and love are easier to talk to their peers or those who are not their regular teachers or who are not parents. That discussions on these issues are necessary, and above all, they expect not only in the family but also in the environment in which they live, much more tolerance. The worst thing that I think is about what you've been alerting me to is that we are pushing out of the school field of a non-governmental organisation, which, in fact, also through the Ombudsman, are stimulated to point out all forms of discrimination. And it has already been found by research that young people are equally discriminated against and even witnesses to violence. And that's what makes them even more stigmatized when we as a society advocate the ban on NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you. I would like, although the question has not been raised, to comment on what the Member added. In 2009, the Children's Parliament addressed the subject of sex, which is said to be children in primary school. On this basis and their initiatives, we have developed some activities at the Ministry of Education and Sport, namely, we have taken part in an action to disseminate contraception behaviour, together with some who have led this action before, under the title Responsible Sex. Then we intensively started a seminar, at least once a year, on sex and developed an action entitled Proud or Proud of My Sex. This is about extending the debate on sex to break up taboos, as much as the Slovenian society conveys, but also through this non-criminal part of the debate on responsible sex as completely legitimate. It should be said that sometimes intolerance occurs both on the one hand and on the other, which just shows that discussion is necessary and, above all, we can only develop a higher degree of tolerance through discussion. I think that this tolerance is the very value that needs to be further developed and that we are united here. As we can see, there are problems in this area, or, say, slip right out of here, say, from the National Assembly, from non-State assembly parties, but they want to come to it. And it is simply right to discuss this and to find again that the school space is something we will not, and that we must not instrumentize for our own views, nor for our client's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! We have also been joined by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, so we will now go to the questions that you will ask him by the leaders or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The question to Prime Minister Borut Pahor will first be posed by mag. Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! In response to the Member's question, Comrade Franz Puksic, concerning the drawing-up of European funds on 15 May, 11. 2010 you said, quote, 'the fact that we are now drawing on success is a terrible victory. This is actually the only really fresh money that rests in the European cash register and we can use it if we have equivalent funds and programmes on our side", the end of the quote. A good week after this optimistic response, he drew up a letter in which Minister Gjerkes and Dr Križanič wrote to all ministries that "the gap between payments from the national budget and the reimbursement of European funds to the national budget at the end of November 2010 is almost EUR 400 million and the implementation of European cohesion policy and projects is at risk". In fact, we have been pointing to this in the SLS for more than a year. You yourself have set yourself a task, and in the 2010 budget you have foreseen one billion and 37 million from the European budget. Now you see for yourself that you have failed, as only EUR 428 million have come from Brussels so far. Dear Prime Minister, your optimistic statements on the effectiveness of European funds have already been heard many times, but unfortunately the data show a completely different picture. In the Slovenian People's Party, we ask ourselves: Have you been misled by your professional services, or have you simply provided incorrect information? For 2010 is ending, Slovenia has not absorbed half of what you have predicted and planned. But I would like you to make it clear to the Slovenian public today: Who will take responsibility for more than half a billion European funds if they remain in Brussels? I also ask for a precise explanation: What does this gap between the planned and actual inflows from the European budget mean for one billion and 767 million euros of the planned budget deficit in 2010? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u210	First of all, to remember later, I still think and the government along with me that it is, of course, the fresh money available to Slovenia to finance the projects for which this money is intended. In addition, I would like to inform you that I will not forget later that, due to the importance of drawing, we have decided that, I think, the last two meetings and by the end of the mandate, the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Regional Development report at the beginning of the meeting on the Government's success in drawing up European funds. These projects, as far as I am aware today, are being implemented intensively, which means that the use of European funds is not at risk from this point of view. The implementation of the projects is mainly in line with the plans. The gap you are mentioning is the 400 million euro gap that has been rounded up in the ministerial district by the draw system, which, I have warned you many times, has been certified. We did not go to the proposal for amendments to certification because this could be a danger of a time hole in which we should wait for a new certificate of procedure and thus waste valuable time. As you know, all projects financed from European funds are paid first with domestic money and only after all checks have been carried out – I want to assure you that these controls are very strict. We ourselves – this is now my very private opinion, if I may say so – have very complicated the system with severe control over the use or management of European money. But once this system has been certified, of course no government, including the government I run, has decided not to change this system due to, I say, a time gap, because the financial perspective is slowly running out. I must therefore point out that we are getting the money back when, of course, the European control is carrying out all its procedures and then from the European budget the funds are transferred to the state budget. This is how we deal with the gap between the expenditure and the claims for reimbursement that has occurred in recent months. I have said that the Government has also done so because of your questions, but not only because of the legislative clarity that the executive branch will do everything to ensure that these funds have been used successfully, but it has also systematically started to do so, including through the stock exchange we introduced last year, and so this deficit, if we say so, has been reduced and amounts to around 150 million euros, which is normal due to the draw system itself. The value of the claims submitted for reimbursement increases intensely. It has to be explained, and I would not blame anyone, but just to explain that for any government, and for that, it is not an easy procedure. Although projects were implemented in 2007 and 2008 but we did not break out of the European budget until the beginning of 2009, so the Minister told me before, not a single cent. Not a single cent! This has resulted in this backlog and the gap between payments from the state budget and refunds from the European budget to our budget. If there is any further question, I will continue to say what Slovenia is doing now to reduce this backlog and that we will draw almost all the money from the cohesion funds Slovenia has in the European budget line.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u211	Thank you very much. There will be no further question, but it will probably be a request to complete the answer. Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We have before us, Mr President of the Government, numbers and facts. And they do not speak for the success of pumping, rather that there is some confusion in this area. And your answer wasn't the most accurate. You know, we've been fighting tough fights for every million here in the National Assembly lately. We have also fought for every million of these budgets, which could possibly be saved on individual budget lines. And I don't understand who's already guilty, and whoever's already responsible for not acting as they should until the funds are drawn up in individual ministries. It is unheard of to note just before the end of the year that we will not draw on all resources. That's irresponsible. So, on the one hand, we find that we will not take what is actually on the table in Brussels. Of course, everything and more needs to be done, much more needs to be done, we will not talk about the procedure, what needs to be done to ensure that the funds come from Brussels. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to see a great deal of waste; in the case of the porous law, the well-respected President of the Government – much has been said in recent times. We will spend one million euros to study or restructure a company from Ljubljana. In short, it seems to me that this is really a waste of money. I wonder: Who will be responsible for this if we do not draw on the resources, and in what way?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u214	I will be responsible for this as Prime Minister of the Government — the first! Then all those who work with me and are obliged to do their best to exhaust everything that Slovenia can if it has projects. And now I'd like to tell you more by memory, but then you can check it out. In my memory, the last time I looked at the data, Slovenia is among the first third of countries after the success of drawing on cohesion funds. What would I want? That we're right on top. But we're in the first third. That's the first thing. Secondly, we planned this year to draw on a billion cohesion funds. We will draw on them if they remain in this situation, and the Minister believes that, under certain conditions, we can exhaust even more, drain at least 70% of this money. I say that we should pump successfully, there must be a project, and what I still miss with the ministerial team is that we have a very complicated administrative system and that many times in fear that competent officials would do anything wrong in the project notification process, they would rather not do what they help to do. We are trying, as far as possible, to remove these administrative obstacles and fears so that we are not penalised. You need to understand because there are also pens for projects that are not drawn in the right way. Finally, this year we will draw at least €700 million from the estimated billions of funds, which is one of the top third of countries, about €100 million more than last year. We are, in fact, as quickly as I can now say two words with the Secretary-General, a net recipient of between EUR 200 million and EUR 250 million. This is no longer a matter of fireworks, but there is no reason to criticize ourselves more than is necessary, because the complexity of this project needs to be understood. Whoever had anything to do with him knows how complicated this project is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mag. Crane, you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u216	Mr President, I would suggest that we, however, speak more broadly about this area, in accordance with the option afforded by the Rules of Procedure. I don't think we can go through like this. If we don't draw 300 million euros, someone has to answer for it, someone has to answer for it, someone in this government or in the ministries, an employee or anyone, someone is responsible if that's what you're planning to do if you're planning a billion euros to get us pumped, someone has to be responsible for this billion euros coming to Slovenia. If 300 million won't come, someone has to be responsible. With everything we talk about in this house, the freezing of pensions, and so on and so forth, it must be done in the fact that we will not be able to draw 300 million euros from someone to answer, respected Prime Minister of the Government. I expect you to ask for it yourself, but I expect it as well, as I said, that we will also talk in this house, because this is simply a serious matter, so that things will just go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide on Thursday, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti, the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We have recently witnessed Croatian escalations again, and I think it is necessary to give a historical oris in this regard. On 1 December 1918 the delegation of the National Council of Zagreb led by the Vice-President of Dr. Antej Pavelić in Belgrade, Korošec was in Zurich at the time, where the banks carried out the act of merger into the Kingdom of SHS. The Vice-President of the National Council of Zagreb, Pavelić, said that the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs is joining Serbia and Montenegro into a single state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. The Crown Prince Alexander answered him and corrected him that the countries of the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs unite with Serbia into the single Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. This is said to have corrected Pavelić's statement because the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs could not have existed as a state-owned entity because Croatian parts did not have state-owned entities. The monarch said, therefore, that the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs is not an international legal entity and that they can only be Slovenian countries, Koroška, Kranjska, Styria, Primorska and Slovenska krajina. And that no new state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians is created, but the Kingdom of Serbia, the winner of World War I, joins the territory of Croats and Slovenes in a single country. The new state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was created by the Kingdom of Serbia, the Slovenian country, which was allowed by Karov manifesto of 16 October 1918 to create countries on the basis of an ethnic principle. At the same time, he said in the same manifesto that this could by no means apply to the so-called Croatian territories, which were only part of the Hungarian kingdom and entered the new country as the spoils of the winner during the first world war, namely the Kingdom of Serbia, which is marked by orange. This is a copy of the original poster, as they were hanging in all Slovenian countries at the time. I also have it in German, if you like, and also a copy of the original telegram sent by Karel. What's this all about? The point is that Slovenians are still – our famous commission does not know what the statehood of Slovenian countries means. He does not know on what he must base his national legal issues concerning Croatia and agrees to the adoption of Croatia, which takes over and steals Slovenian territory. I want to know: What are you gonna do about it? Will you teach those great experts of yours, or will they start reading, or will they take with them a history book, or will they come to me for a lesson?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u220	Maybe it's a short enough answer, and that's why it's so much clearer. The Commission of Experts shall be established. The Minister has made every assurance that the Slovenian professional public, as well as those from the international community who will help us defend our case before the arbitral tribunal, is willing to cooperate with anyone who can help us prepare our argument. As you know, we therefore have a one-year opportunity and duty, and at this time we must prepare a memorandum to be submitted to the arbitration tribunal. Slovenia will make good preparations for this, absolutely. Once again, the content of the arbitration agreement – no unilateral declarations have been made to it; the note has been exchanged; the agreement has entered into force; no unilateral declaration has been submitted; it will enter into force when Croatia is expected to conclude negotiations and sign an agreement in the coming year. We're getting ready for this. As you know, we have already appointed several persons who are responsible for this project running with its name and surname. Pyramid is established and, fellow Member Jelinčič, your knowledge as well as the knowledge of many other historians and those who deal with it in one way or another, we appreciate, and you are, like all others, invited to help us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u221	Thank you. Would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u222	Mr President, this is a starting point. And the starting points are the ones that matter. The starting point is that Slovenia, the Slovenian countries have legal, international legitimacy, which Croatia does not have, so this must be based on this basis, because the statehood of the Slovenian countries mentioned earlier – Koroške, Kranjska, Primorska, Štajerska and Slovenian landscapes – is expressed in the patent of Franc II. of 11 August 1804 – here I have copies of this patent, and you can get it from me – in taking over the imperial title based on the dignity and importance of the independent Habsburg kingdoms and dukedoms, where our countries are named. There are no Croatian territories here. And more! Here we have one stamp on the documents, which says Krainische Städtische Museum, which basically means that it was the Cran State Museum, because it stems from the word status, the status is the Latin state. Just like the National Assembly is something else. If we take, say, the evidence is the Vatican state, in Latin it's called the Status of Civitatis Vaticanae or the Cranian status of Carnioli. That's what it takes. This is what our so-called great experts do not understand or know. We have a commission made up of three parties from some international lawyers, some historians and some righteous people. You put me among the righteous. What does justice have to do with international law, I ask?Oh, my God! It is necessary to establish a starting point, and just say so and nothing else, that the starting point is this: Karl's manifesto, the end of World War I – and gentlemen, international lawyers at the level of the arbitrators, do your thing! And we did the best we could. But not that we go down in the lower part of our backs in the long and narrow part of who comes first.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u224	I suggest that at least we be civil about this issue. The Agreement shall apply. The Slovenian expert working group started its work. It also includes you and many others who opposed this agreement, but then received referendum support. It was concluded with a note and after the signing of the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union on Accession, the Court of Arbitration will also begin its work. Now, I propose that in this time, I speak with you and with all the High Council, we do not make these issues public. There is sufficient time and opportunity for you to be in four eyes or in competent groups, in particular in this working group, to say everything that is in the best interests of our national interests. And I suggest that nothing that we could do, because this is about, I'll say, a dispute between the two neighbouring countries on the territory that we're not bidding on anything in public. So I propose state-of-the-art behaviour, so we set up a commission, which is open. We're trying to gather all the smart people, the documentation, the material that serves our benefit in this case of a dispute that will be decided by an arbitral tribunal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u226	That's right, let me explain it a little bit. As for the state-owned expert commission, I must say, Mr President, that I was invited only to an inaugural meeting which I could not attend because I was not in Slovenia, and then nothing more – no more – no more – no more spirit can hear me being invited anywhere! And time is something, but not much, and I think the subject of the dispute needs to be identified. Until we know what the subject of the dispute is, we will wander about half the Bay of Piranhas, we will wander about Savudria, we will wander about such nonsense because the gentleman who talks about it does not know the history and does not know what international law is. And as far as hiding is concerned. Why hide? All documentation is public, it needs to be found, but it is necessary to know about this documentation, and this gentleman does not know. If we have 2,000 sheets from World War II, it's no use to us because I've already told you where to put the starting point. The international legal penalties do not recognise the agreements of one partisan unit with another partisan unit because the borders within the former Yugoslavia, both in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and later and immediately after the war, were merely administrative. This is what we need to know, and that is not what our so-called international lawyers are aware of because they do not know enough. The Croatians have studied this very well. Most of our so-called international lawyers have studied these things in Zagreb in one way or another, and when they see their former professor, they start shaking and then he ex-chatter says to them, "Dear colleague, if you say so, I would have thrown you out of the exam." And ours are even more torn up there and almost crying and going home, so even from the former Croatian Commission they say they were ashamed of how our gentlemen did not defend Slovenia, but they bowed to Croatian tendencies and origins. That's why I think something needs to be done here. But these gentlemen we have there won't be enough knowledge! A substantial lack of knowledge, and the rest of the government is not enough of something else that is usually carried between the legs of men.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I understand you want to have a debate, well. [[...]] On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Dear Prime Minister, half your mandate has passed, from which your supporters, due to your many predictions and promises, have been very much expected. From the big words came new, in fact even bigger words and there were few reform actions. Once again, the proverb has been confirmed that one who speaks much does little. First of all, the government comes up with such legal changes that create privileged groups that, by the example of famous car stickers, come to guaranteed transactions. As a result of such solutions, the state budget will be cut off because the various fees will no longer be the revenue of the budget. In addition, citizens who pay substantially more than they have paid for the preparation of various papers will be deprived. This creates and increases new administrative barriers and irritates procedures. But you don't trust citizens to do anything for themselves. Dispose of the supervisory tasks of the National Assembly, allowing you to mix freely with state property, which includes even a sub-juice of red and orange; TES is one of them. None of the major projects you've named are reforms, but even before modernisation, it doesn't run according to plan. Much is predicted and taught, but content, order, ways, approaches, solutions, effects, quorums, partners – all of this changes daily. However, there is nowhere to detect a systemic approach, which shows that everything depends on the current mood of you and your ministers. As a matter of fact, no one knows what or when it will follow. So, Mr. President of the Government: What reforms have been and are still on the agenda and when will we be waiting for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u230	It is quite possible that you have a different impression of what you have the right to. In the first speech, and later, I refrained from raising public expectations about the speed and effectiveness of Slovenia's exit from the severe crisis, which we were put into right after we took responsibility for running the country. I have never accused the former Prime Minister as the Prime Minister of her because they did not rest the main reasons for her in your actions or the actions of the previous authorities, although there might be something that could be done earlier; but it will also be possible to say so for the Government that I am leading, none is perfect. However, I have to categorically reject the claim that this government has done less than I promised or said at the outset. I said we're going into a serious crisis. Not even the most unsuspecting were able to predict the scales she received last year. We have overcome this crisis with short-term measures. Like most other countries, Slovenia has withdrawn from the recession. We are again in a low but positive rate of economic growth, we have a 7% survey rate of unemployment, one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union. We have, and you are right, although in the last two years there has been an increase in the rate of public debt rise in GDP, but this is on the half-average of the European Union. Large countries that have been exemplary in overcoming the crisis are above this average, even over 100% of their GDP. Slovenia doesn't. I am not satisfied that we have increased the pace of public debt recovery in the last two years, but the Government has also taken action to rehabilitate it in the long term. With the rebalans, as far as possible, we have settled the deficit that threatened to be due to fiscal measures – and without offense, the opposition has repeatedly asked the Government to intervene with State resources more than we have done because of, I will say, my inherent fear of indebtedness. And Minister Križanič has, and now has, the main task of bringing the deficit below 5% this year and 3% of Maastricht in 2012, when, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise, we hand over – if you so decide – the mandate of the next government coalition, which will also face difficult work, because recovery will be slower in all modern countries, including Slovenia. He's waiting for us, he's under the roof today, at least as far as this level of decision-making is concerned, pension reform. I have heard that you have considered it unnecessary, and I would like to tell you that I will not later forget, on the radar of countries that are in a safe and dangerous zone within the European Union, the success of the implementation of pension reforms in the three main objectives pursued by European Commission indicators when assessing whether they are in a safe or dangerous zone is considered. Deficiency, growth, also employment and public debt, of course; for all of these indicators, we are now including the pension reform on the safe side. We discussed at the college just before how to focus our development activities on. Perhaps, if such a decision is made, we will go through a health reform or, as Minister Marusic calls it, an upgrade to the health system. This is going to be a big deal, we're going to go into labour market reform, we're going to go into public sector modernisation. To make it very clear: if the first half of the mandate wanted to preserve the social cohesion of the country, and for that we have allocated 44% of the funds more than before – and this has made the deficit bigger than we would like to – we will be doing it in the second part of the mandate, and we have already started to do so, today the first step has been taken, even if you do not approve of it, we take responsibility for it to increase the short and long term competitiveness of the Slovenian country. If you ask additional questions, I will answer them with what is written here, and it will be done. I would just like to tell you that if the short-term measures of the exit strategy, which is more or less already under the roof and the first major reforms of Slovenia would not have been done, Slovenia would not be included in the secure part of the European Union's radar right now. That's how we're anchored there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I thought you didn't want a full response because you didn't answer. Do you want to complete the answer? Please. [[adverts from benches]] Yes, a supplement to the answer. You have no further question but to supplement the answer of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I find those words difficult to attract. Yesterday we heard serious criticism, including from your coalition types, Minister Katarina Kresal said that the Government had lost its development focus and that they had attached more or less of all coalition parties, indeed and also DeSUS and also your parliamentary group had no objection to having a debate here too. That's why those words you said don't sound most credible. As far as action is concerned, they certainly don't run out. There are some green lights on at the scoreboard of the exit strategy, but there are no reforms among them. What you had for reform, this is the transfer of assets from Kada and Soda to the agency, this is not a reform, and this is actually just a project with which in a sensible, privileged way, a customeristic way, even perhaps even a corrupt one, closes the transition and also prevents effective control. On Thursday, you said that even the Radiotelevision Act was a reform, and we see how the story ended. Now we ask: When will these reforms take place? What will happen to tax reform, judicial reform, administrative reform, agriculture and other reforms announced? These are necessary for economic growth, for the creation of new jobs, for the necessary development and breakthroughs, and also for the closure of the public money registers, such as those in silent societies; and Talum is one of them. We also ask: When do we get a fiscal rule that limits public spending according to what we've created? We proposed this more than a year ago in the SDS and are now summarizing or recommending to the government also the President of the Fiscal Council?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u234	It is not true that it is difficult to lead the government under such difficult conditions. It is true that it is even more difficult to lead, Comrade Tanka, than you think. It is perfectly normal for my 20 colleagues, among coalition partners, between Members and Members of the political majority to have doubts, dilemmas, questions, not least how we will get the country out of the crisis, to be more competitive and to be more socially connected and eventually to be placed in that round of countries that will move forward as quickly as possible. And, of course, we belong to this space. And you know my plans here. We have written down the fiscal rule in the coalition contract and it has also been enforced. The fiscal world is working. A lot of this is done. That is not true, and I must say this again, if and as far as the Government's proposals come to this high house to the texts of laws where someone may have felt that a position, social or other, is privileged, then you have all the opportunity and right and also the duty to correct it. We're not doing this on purpose. We are not elected here to serve the interests of one group, not the generational, not the social, no elite, but to try, and only this can legitimize our actions, lead politics into common good. We don't do everything perfectly, I've said it many times. But no one is doing it perfectly today because no country has ever patented a recipe for an exit from the crisis. We've retired from the recession. I told you what we're up to. And I welcome the discussion between colleagues, I have always, when I have not led the government, but I have led the opposition party to publicly, loudly discuss the dilemmas that are the dilemmas of our common future, including yours. There's something I'd like to say. I had heard earlier that opposition parties were not invited to a matter as important as pension reform. No offense, ask the president of your party. My proposal was to meet, but it was unacceptable for me, and it will always be unacceptable that the condition for such a meeting is the conduct of the Government and the political majority in Parliament, as he requires, on some completely different matter. This does not belong to a culture that has been spoken so much from your side before. It is still our willingness to work together on health reform, the labour market, at all; let us just focus on these reforms, not on other decisions for which we take full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u235	Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We didn't know when the government was going to propose what kind of reform. And also, Mr President of the Government, the fiscal rule, which is also advocated by your fiscal council, is different from what the Government has in its acts and which it takes into account in the preparation of the budget. By the way, the indicators you are talking about, such as deficits, public debt, or unemployment, are in fact almost a hundred percent higher than at the beginning of your term of office. Look, really. The deficit was earlier, you know how much, now over 5%, the public debt was before 21%, now over 40%, the unemployment was before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u237	Comrade Tanko, the Prime Minister can't answer, he can't argue. Request for a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u238	About 60,000, now over 100,000. [[...]] And these are the facts and the data. Mr President of the Government, you said at the beginning of your mandate, as well as in the campaign that Slovenia can lead better. But the indicators show that this is not true, not true. Obviously, it is a fundamental message of this part of your mandate that we are seriously lagging behind in economic growth, both of our most important economic partners, such as Germany or Austria, and of our competitors, such as Poland or the Czech Republic. Really! This shows that the government's responses during this period were poor that the reform measures adapted to the weather and needs were not at the level of strong European competition. These so-called reform measures are simply not available. We would like a clear message about whether, as Prime Minister of the Government, you have enough vision, sensitivity and power to connect the ends of this government-wide dispersed coalition. Therefore, we also propose that you support our request for a debate on your response, and here we also discuss these reform measures that you are expected to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u239	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Aloj Potočnik of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This spring, an agreement was reached at European Union level on the establishment of a crisis assistance mechanism for euro-area countries in financial difficulties. As you know, the Republic of Slovenia has supported this mechanism despite some reservations. We also expressed reservations in the Group of Members at that time and suggested to you what Slovenia must ask of Greece and the European Union in this case, not only to follow countries that also have very tangible economic and financial interests in resolving the Greek debt crisis. In the Group of Members, we have at that time pointed out that solidarity is the basis of mutual social responsibility and that, according to our belief, the Greeks have also entered into the debt crisis because of irresponsible behaviour. For this reason, we think of solidarity as mutually responsible solidarity, both with regard to the fulfilment of Greece's obligations and financial market arrangements and the establishment of crisis management mechanisms at the level of the European Union as a whole. At the meeting of the European Council in November 2010, the Heads of State or Government of the Member States took a decision to establish a permanent crisis mechanism to replace the said temporary crisis mechanism in order to provide adequate assistance to those euro area Member States which, following the outbreak of the global economic and financial crisis, are in public financial difficulties. In parallel with the agreement on the establishment of a permanent mechanism, the leaders agreed that the legal basis for the establishment of the mechanism should be introduced into the primary legislation of the European Union. The questions go like this; in the parliamentary group we ask you, Prime Minister: Under what conditions will the Republic of Slovenia support the amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community or the legal basis on which the European Stability Mechanism will be established? And secondly: Is there a judgement and will that Slovenia insists on removing obvious weaknesses from the so-called temporary mechanism and that, based on experience and considerations, the allocation of aid from the mechanisms will also be subject to stricter conditions and criteria of economic, social and political nature? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u242	Dear Member, we will discuss this in a comprehensive manner tomorrow – I suppose, Mr President, in the closed part of the meeting, which is also the subject of the debate. So please understand that today I will say what I think is appropriate to answer in the light of your question. On the last European Council, we discussed the so-called German-French initiative, which in fact invited EU Member States to open a debate on possible changes to the Treaty of Lisbon. Germany and France are, of course, well aware of how difficult it has been to get the 27 countries under the ratification process, because it is now necessary, this is a minimum consensus, on which tomorrow in the closed part of the meeting, to introduce minimum sanctioning mechanisms for those countries that do not meet the expected criteria within the Stability Pact and the agreed permanent mechanism. You know that at first this idea was accompanied even by the idea of taking away voting rights. We immediately took the lead without having a mandate, including me, on whether this is a good idea or a bad idea. I can tell you with all my responsibility what my opinion was. I supported this decision with the same attitude that everyone else had, that it was just my own personal opinion. There is neither the opinion of the Government nor the National Assembly, which must adopt binding positions under law with us. Why was I inclined to do so? Because it is absolutely clear that several groups of countries are forming within the EU, which now openly recognise that they are not interested in the question of wanting, whether they want to implement reforms, but recognise that some reforms cannot be implemented. We are in the EU countries that are in and out of the European zone. We're the countries we're in and out of Nat. We're countries that are in and out of the G20. In short, the differences within the EU are objectively very large. They're old and new members. And even within the euro area, this will now number 17 members, with the entry of Estonia, there are huge differences in the dynamics of change and also in meeting the criteria for the stability of our national currency. Since the stability of the monetary currency can be compromised if countries do not meet the required economic policies and criteria, it is, of course, formed, at least in a certain group of countries, but also within our own framework, the consensus that those who do not do their own homework need to be sanctioned, because otherwise we will have to do their own homework, which is only possible and unsustainable and unfair. But more about this tomorrow when I try to explain where these immediate eyes look at the legal, political and other professions regarding changes to the Treaty of Lisbon. I would like to say this in public because this is not only related to the changes in the Treaty of Lisbon, so that in the coming years Slovenia will meet all the conditions that will allow it to also be larger in the event of institutional changes, and I will not say any more. Slovenia is firmly anchored in that currency group that will have a competitive currency. That's essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I am going back to the questions raised by ministers and ministers. Ivan Grill will ask the Transport Minister Dr. Patrick Vlačič a question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Council of Ministers, Honourable President! Since the introduction of the wine system in Slovenia, it has been two years or almost two and a half years. The wine system has, at least, shown this, contributed greatly to improving traffic safety, burdening the surrounding roads. However, by the time the previous Government took a decision on vineyards, it was also envisaged that the second half of 2008 would start removing toll stations that impede traffic. Today we are witnessing that all toll stations are still in the same condition as they were then, which means they are not serving their purpose and are certainly obstructing traffic. During periods of traffic, during vacations, or at a time when traffic is concentrated, the situation is needlessly revived so that cars can drive smoothly. As a result, the environment is polluted and, above all, pressure is generated needlessly. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Why, two years after we had to start removing these toll stations, the government still did not demand that this be realized? Where are the reasons, especially when can we expect these toll stations to be eliminated? One feels reluctantly that toll stations are designed to place radars there. Many times we see that police, hidden behind these toll stations, are hunting drivers who are minimally over speed, which is usually limited to 40 kilometers, which is unfair. Many times, drivers who carry this speed for a little while will then deepen. It is also often the case that Dars is in these areas carrying out inspection of vinjets. It is right that this control is carried out, but it can be carried out in a different way where there are not so many disruptions in the course of traffic. That's why I'm really interested: Where are the reasons why this has not yet collapsed, and when do you intend to remove these toll stations in order to allow for smooth traffic, which now the toll stations do not allow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u246	Thank you. Dear Member! If it were just to remove the toll stations, I would have ordered them to go there and remove them. I can see that this desire to remove toll stations is very great. We've already gotten numbers that are extremely high. This does not mean that they will not have to be removed at some point. However, there are other projects that are more priority than the construction of motorway sections for those parts of Slovenia that do not yet have, but the removal of toll stations. Disposal of the toll stations isn't about coming in, tearing down the house, and it's all done. It is a section of the motorway, which needs to be built entirely on one side and on the other, because it is not suitable for motorway speeds due to drainage, inclinations, construction methods and everything else. When they presented the projects to me, these are such high numbers if we want to make the highway on that part safe, that I simply felt that this moment does not have such priorities and that they have a higher priority section of the highway in Styria, that they have a higher priority of highway sections from Ptuj to the Croatian border, that they have a greater priority of highway sections against Vipava and so on. It's simply a matter of extremely high numbers. I'll do the program. We can go in. But now I'm telling you, this is going to be very, very expensive. When I saw the numbers, in fact, this project may have been due to the construction project of other roads, which I think is more important to the Minister at this moment, a little bit to the future. If it's just about coming in and tearing down houses, let's do it in one month. That's all this is about. I can present these numbers to you and then together we decide what is more relevant than how much money is available for building.We can look at it together and then we can discuss it honestly. [[...]] I'll give you those numbers. I'll introduce them to the government, and then we'll decide. Very frank and easy to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u247	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Grill!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u248	Thank you very much. See, Mr Minister, I remember when I was a Member in the previous term, how much opposition there were to the various lobbyists, the people who advocated the then toll system, where we also paid at these toll stations, because it was a very large source of earnings. It has also been noted on several occasions that it is these people who are still opposed to the demolition of toll stations in anticipation of a return to the old system, where they will be able to cash in fat. Last but not least, we are also witnessing that a large amount of funding is being earmarked for the new satellite toll system, which is certainly too urgent at the moment. It's a lot of money. We'd be the first in Europe, which is probably pointless. I agree with you that there's probably not enough of those stations just to tear down and that there's still more work to be done here. But look, in the face of such a construction crisis, where three quarters of Slovenia is essentially waiting for work, I am sure that these prices could be very, very acceptable. Finally, we'd give those companies a job. It would probably be interesting to see some review of those budgets or those projects that were probably also presented to you to see whether these are real estimates or if this could be reduced by some 10% of these funds. That is why I think that solutions should be sought in this direction and these toll stations should also be eliminated. And above all, I'm asking you: Is it true that the police, or the Ministry of the Interior, intend to buy radars that will automatically be there for anyone who will slightly exceed speed, record, record, and send home a billboard? If that is the purpose, it is not right for the taxpayers and for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you. This last question is for the Ministry of the Interior, I do not know the answer. I can assure you that the houses no longer stand in order to restore the system as it once was because the Action Plan was adopted by the Government. The action plan is clear. We must have an open call that enables a satellite system, a microwave system or a GSM system, i.e. a signal. These are the three systems that the European Union allows in this area. And one of these three will have to be introduced or at least for trucks by mid-2012. We have to! Because this existing ABC system is obsolete to the point that parts are no longer available and so we need to renovate here with one of the three previously mentioned systems. We have more time for cars until 2014. We can leave the vines until then. Although the action plan says that we will also have electronic tolling for cars. If we do this for cars too, then we face problems because the European Union has not prescribed an OBD device, i.e. "on board unit", i.e. these units as mandatory car equipment. With this, Slovenia, which fulfils its obligations from the European Union – I tell you the truth – would also have problems. We have already warned the Commission about this. There will also be a debate on this issue on the Commission soon. Because I think if they're already forcing us to have electronic tolls, then they must be mandatory devices for all European vehicles. In particular for transition countries such as Slovenia, this is a major problem. But we still have a little more time for cars. In theory, we can leave the vines until 2014. But in 2014, we are again bound by these obligations. But even if it's electronic tolling for these cars, in the first phase it's supposed to be time tolling. So it's the same thing as vignettes. Only that it was detected by an electronic device in the first phase. Then for now, spiders are a matter of decision. So once again, the houses aren't there to return to the old system, because they're also so much, I'll say, more developed or so much highway that these houses can't do any more functions. And the new ones, you see, we don't build, but we build special toll units for trucks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u251	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Well, this question that we have now raised with the Minister shows that there are many things that would make sense to be debated here in the National Assembly and that the Minister will also provide us with some information that can contribute to an easier decision, one such or another. I hope and believe that what you've said is that it's not intended to return to the old toll system. I would also appeal, however, that even though you are not responsible for this, he merely appeals to the police that they are not maliciously hidden there, that they are hunting those who may exceed a mile or two of speed. This is essentially like some kind of trap there, but in no way contributes to greater traffic safety. We know that due to a slightly higher speed, there has never been any traffic accidents and, of course, that doesn't make any sense. However, one such debate can certainly answer a number of questions. I therefore hope that the coalition will support this proposal for a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u253	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister of Transport's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jakob Preseknik will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I did some news last month. And I told the Minister of Environment and Space at this point last month, which question I'm going to ask him in a month. Even a little reason to speed up some activities on some things, on specifics when I asked him. It's about covenants. If I start in general, Slovenia's commitments, EU commitments and the global commitment to energy policy restructuring aimed at substantially increasing renewable energy use. I certainly belong to water, solar and wind energy in addition to some others that are not interesting to Slovenia. And within that, I'm sure it's called a small hydro power plant. However, the main reason is that the procedures for the construction of small hydropower plants do not go forward is the human resources sub-nutrition of certain departments at the Ministry of Environment and Space. As a result, some or all of the procedures in this regard have been virtually intact for several years. Investors, while many across Slovenia are waiting for regulations at the end of the concessional regulations, the government's regulations on the award of a concession for the use of water. This is one problem.Sometimes, too, there are cases where the construction of small hydroelectric power plants would solve some problems related to flood safety, as well as damage caused by water at high water levels, and so on. Second, about solar energy. We have already discussed this on two committees. There's still some confusion. Third time. I'm interested in a complication in the Grissom field with regard to wind energy. So I ask and I ask the minister the following three questions: Do you support the use of renewable energy sources at the Ministry and in the Government? Second, if the answer is yes: What will you do to deal adequately with the problem of the preparation of appropriate regulations? What is the complication of the issuance and cancellation of the building permit for the wind power plant in the Griske Field, and who is responsible for the plot? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u256	Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, fellow ministers! Thank you for the questions, and in a row, if I answer the first and second questions. The Minister for Environment and Space supports the sustainable use of renewable energy sources. In doing so, the objectives of 25% of renewable energy sources must be achieved in order to remain sustainable in practice so as not to jeopardise the other environmental objectives. The Framework Water Directive requires us to achieve good water status by 2015 and not to make the existing situation worse at the same time. That is why it also imposes on us the conditions that we must meet when we place new facilities that could make the water condition worse. In particular, it must be demonstrated that the public interest in the installation of these facilities is greater than the public interest in achieving good water conditions. That there is no other way to achieve the goal of water degradation. In order to implement measures to minimise the negative impact on water status, such measures shall be carried out. That's the European directive. With the preparation of the Action Plan on Renewable Energy, we have opened a debate with the Minister of Economy. And from this heading, the Action Plan also provides a measure to carry out a cost-benefit study of existing small hydropower plants as a basis for sustainable criteria, where environmental, social and economic impacts need to be taken into account. We also note the publication of the Guidelines for the Use of Small Hydropower Plants in the Alpine Region, which is prepared under the Alpine Convention and will be published in the first half of the following year. It is due to the negative experiences of countries by placing small hydropower plants in the Alpine area. If there's any time later, I have other numbers, if you have any further questions on this subject. Now I have to get back to the subject of wind power plants. The complication of which, as you have now heard, I have been extremely guilty of being called to account, even though it was a completely different cause. This is what happened. The Ministry of Public Administration has waived our letter to the RS Anti-Corruption Commission with the attached letter. The letter from the Ministry of Public Administration notes that the reasons for suspecting that a crime was committed in the issuance of a building permit for the construction of wind power plants in the village of Dolenja. At the same time, the Commission invited the competent supervisory authority to exercise control over the correctness of the issue of the building permit. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as a second step, was therefore obliged to assess, on an official basis, the legality of the authorisation granted. In assessing the legality of the building permit issued, it was found that the conditions for issuing the building permit were not met, as the right to build was not demonstrated and the building permit had to be revoked. By judgment of the Administrative Court of 10. 11. 2010 was confirmed by the right decision of our ministry. In particular, it was built on land that was not included in the land book for the purposes of the provisions of the Agrarian Community Act. Once the investor has the right to build on the land of the agrarian community in accordance with the Slovenian acquis, the administrative unit Sežana will be able to issue a legal building permit in the re-trial procedure, but not before that. Both the investor and the administrative unit are responsible for the complication of the cancellation of the building permit. While the Ministry supports the use of alternative energy sources, it certainly does not oblige it to act under the supervisory function in accordance with the laws. I'm very sorry that I was personally exposed by some. The ones who made the basic mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u257	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. President? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u258	Thank you very much for the first part of the answer, Mr. Secretary. If nothing else, I've given you the opportunity to explain publicly what the problem is at the wind power plant. But the essence of my question is, of course, small hydropower plants. I know in my grave what needs to be done in order to reach the final stage of the concession regulation, but all these eligibility analyses, all these environmental impact checks, which you listed, have to be done simply by someone at the Ministry. The problem is that at least a few weeks ago, or even days ago, there was virtually no one at the Ministry or maybe one of the employees, but with completely different tasks. That is why they are gathered there — according to some responsible ones — to buy all these writings that no one can save. That's the problem. My desire, of course, is that these procedures continue because the interest in Slovenia is great, but even if the analysis and environmental effects are ultimately negative for the objective reasons you listed. In particular, I would like matters to be resolved in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act at the appropriate time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much for the opportunity to explain in public things that are problematic, especially this issue. Mr Verlich, although it was his turn now, I will read something that I have so combined that I can answer both of you for the numbers. There's about 400 pending deposits. The actual number is 292 water deposits: 10 for aquaculture, 25 for bottles, 9 for heating with thermal water, 37 for thermal baths, 5 for floods, 6 for sailing and 200 for small power plants. 90 applications do not have a positive expert opinion. Therefore, the proceedings with the decision of the Government will be suspended from these 200. 22 applications have an expert opinion obtained and will be resolved in accordance with the date of receipt in accordance with the order in which they are received. Other applications are in the phase of complementing or obtaining expert opinions. I have also repeatedly asked colleagues who do so to leave some other things behind, but they do, so that tasks run in parallel and not in parallel. We also have a change in the direction of the Directorate, and I don't think it's been bad before, but it's going to give some encouragement now. Because of the flood and water problem in general, we have also made an extraordinary request for the Government to increase the number of specialised experts, because it means nothing to us to a thousand 400 members of the Ministry, but if we do not have experts for what we need. So I hope in a month, if there's any more questions, I can say a little bit smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Zorn will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Secretary, praise. Last time I asked you a question about Sitarovec, about an abandoned lead mine that wasn't closed, and you went to see it live in fourteen days to see that the danger was really acute. And now something like that. Very close, in Šmartne near Lithuania, in the valley of Rakovnik is a waste dump with leather waste, which began to be filled in 1969, when Lithia gave the IUV to rent 18 thousand 296 square metres of agricultural land, grasslands. The landfill has therefore been filled with leather waste for more than 35 years. More than 250 different chemicals are used in the modern process of tanning the skin with trivalent chromium. Among them are arsenic, cadmium, zinc, and chromium. Sulphides, acids, bases and heavy metals used in the leather industry have a toxic effect on the environment if they are not treated properly. If organic residues resulting from leather raw materials are not properly treated before disposal, such as skin, hair, dissolved proteins, fats and keratin, their decomposition of oxygen flora and favni from the immediate environment. There is more than 100,000 tonnes of leather waste in the valley of the Rakkovnik stream. So we're not talking about a little thing. But the exit from the landfill is spreading, and it is a poisonous stench, and it is still rising, for the stream is passing through. The landfill has not been in use since 2007. In January 2008, the Ministry of Environment and Space approved the decree on the spatial development strategy of the Municipality of Šmartno pri Litija, which states, inter alia, that the priority for achieving the objectives of spatial development of the municipality is also the rehabilitation of the landfill of industrial wastes of Rakovnik. Since the above-mentioned decree provides for the supervision of the implementation of this decree by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space of the Ministry of Environment and Space, I ask you: What is the current situation in the Rakovnik landfill and how far is the rehabilitation process?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Environment Agency is 24. 8. 2007 certified documentation for the closure of the landfill Rakovnik to the then administrator of the landfill IUV, Industry Vrhnika from the Lip Vrhnik. The plan of the pending works is a document requiring the completion of the closure of the landfill within the time limit established on the basis of the waste disposal rules. This is until the end of 2008. The IRSOP inspection was responsible for monitoring the implementation of the undeclared work plan. The work not carried out since 2007 is as follows: between January and July 2007, approximately 700 tonnes of leather waste and approximately 60 tonnes of dehydrated waste sludge from the waste water treatment plant Rakovnik, then covering the waste disposal site with compost, restoration of drainage for draining water on the north and west of the landfill along the import road, extension of the sewage treatment channels in the eastern part of the landfill, installation of the fence in the eastern part of the landfill, implementation of measurements, management of waste water. Following the closure of the landfill, the operator of the landfill had to ensure the implementation of operational monitoring to the following extent: measurement of meteorological parameters, quantity of waste water and monitoring of wastewater, monitoring of groundwaters, analysis of the Račnik stream and measurement of discharge gas emissions. The Environment and Space Inspectorate has checked at this location in the framework of regular inspections, still checks, in accordance with the annual work plan at least once a year and several times if necessary. The inspection shall be the supervisory authority which, in the case of this closed landfill, shall identify and monitor the activities which have been confirmed by the performance plan of the pending works and which are to be carried out by the manager of the closed landfill at least by 2012. As part of the control of the landfill, Rakovnik is found to carry out all activities as a bankruptcy company in accordance with a certified plan of work not yet carried out, including the obligation to carry out monitoring of waste, drain and groundwater. As part of the implementation of the closed landfill monitoring, water analysis is carried out twice a year in the Rakovnik stream and sample sites are above and below the landfill. At the latest inspection inspection of this landfill on 11. This year, it was found, inter alia, that the operator of this closed landfill has not yet carried out all the parts of the approved plan. The area is not fully planted with trees. It is also found that the channels by decommissioning meteor water are not maintained on a regular basis. The shaft in front of the collection pool of the drains is partially filled, the grills on the Rakkovnik stream in front of the landfill are damaged. With regard to the alleged bankruptcy of the IUV operator, it was decided to clear the canals, shafts and grates at the flood by 12 December this year. The operator informed the inspection that it had obtained offers for the execution of works, but that it could not regulate everything within the prescribed time limit due to the weather conditions. This is expected to take place by 15 January next year. All prescribed monitoring has been found to be carried out. In addition to certain withdrawal points for the implementation of measurements of certain plans and implementing parts, the operator shall also carry out measurements of the drain water in the pool. The parameters of ammonia, chromium and sulphides in the exhaust waters exceed the limit values. The draining water is carried out regularly by an IUV cleaning device at Vrhnika, annually more than 7 000 cubic metres. In the annual report, the monitoring operator ZZV Novo mesto wrote that there is no direct environmental burden with waste water because these leak into the canal, a selection pool. In addition to saying that the bankruptcy company manages to perform these tasks somehow and that we will monitor them regularly in agricultural control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u265	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I've looked at this landfill at least twice. That's how I know he's in a clairvoyant condition. What I just heard is on paper, and that's where it all stands. The locals can tell you that the landfill is leaking, smelling, and pouring out of it. And to describe to you a little bit dramatically, this Rakkovnik stream, if there is a severe weather storm at the end, because the valley is very sharp, it can turn into stormwater, running through the landfill and bringing it all together to Šmartno near Lithuania literally with itself. Then we can think about what kind of regiment there will be. Therefore, I also suggest that the Geological Survey of Slovenia examine at what speed and in which direction the underground and subterranean chemicals spread or move from the landfill of Rakovnik, and what are the characteristics or course of the relevant oxidation-reduction processes. However, the Institute for Health Care of Ljubljana should ensure the awareness, education, promotion and assessment of the risks to human health and the quality of the environment in the affected area are short- and long-term adverse effects of concentrations of chemicals and landfills of Rakovnik and the consequences of the events mentioned above. In short, explain to people what is threatening them and how to avoid them and what you will really do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u268	Thank you very much. After the formal salary, we said, there remains a plan of the works carried out, which must be properly implemented. What can we do? We can take one look at our inspectors to see if that's in line with the plan. We can see that the plan is not well implemented. We can find out that the plan was made wrong and, as such, confirmed. However, there may have been some other things that have not been taken into account and that need to be done further. And since IUV is in bankruptcy, it will only be possible to erase some additional work and costs through the court, in addition to what would have been found to be the right thing to do. So if everything turns out to be okay with the plan and they're doing it, it's up to the court to do some extra work. But if something isn't being done, the plan wasn't good, but you're gonna have to roll the movie back and see why it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u269	Thank you. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, however, will ask the minister of health Dorian Marusic a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members, Ministers! For some time, the public has been alarmed by information about the alleged abolition of smaller maternity homes in Slovenia. A study of the Ministry of Health working group for the rationalisation of the maternity network was carried out on 23 September 2009. I was concerned about the opinion of the authors of the study. Minor obstetrics are expected to be less safe for births due to under-experienced staff employed in these maternity wards. Due to the lower number of births, the quality of training of professionals in smaller maternity centres should also be questioned. If that's true, I'm asking the question: Why don't specialists train in larger maternity care? The authors of the study also believe that smaller obstetrics should be less safe and less economical. Unfortunately, the study does not offer any statistical data to demonstrate a lower birth safety rate in those births where less than 500 births per year. It does not offer any data on the basis of which it could be ascertained that smaller maternity facilities are less economically viable. There are also no international studies cited in the study to support such hypotheses. That's why I want to know: On what basis should you, Mr Minister, decide to rationalise the maternity network in Slovenia? As one of the most important indicators of the quality of birth in countries is also maternal mortality or the number of deaths of women at and after birth, I am interested in: What are the last ten years of data on the number of women who died in and after birth in Slovenia after our maternity leave? How many of the above deaths were women in and after childbirth at a hospital such that women were displaced from other maternity wards because of complications? Which ones? I also believe that the population is interested in: Do the data on maternal mortality in our country show less birth safety in our smaller hospitals? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u272	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Members, Honourable Members, colleague of the Minister! At the time of the acquisition of the Ministry or the Ministry, the study mentioned was actually present. She had a certain flaw. She only touched the gynecological services. And as long as I advocate integral care for mothers and children, when thinking about optimising the network, we need to think about the whole treatment. Therefore, following my consideration of the Health Council, an initiative was also given to extend the working group to prepare a comprehensive analysis and also proposals for reorganisation, optimisation of the gynaecological-natal service in the Slovenian space. So, proposals for primary, secondary and tertiary level. The product was made and forwarded to the Health Council. It is now under consideration in an extended professional college. I expect a final debate somewhere in January. At that time, such a and different decision of the Health Council will be more binding on the Minister. I insist and wish that certain changes are made in this sensitive area, where the concerns of women, mothers and children are weighed and carried out on the basis of clear professional analyses. Something of this was flawed. However, this is one of the better documents that has been prepared in the last period. With the existing network in the training of future gynaecologists and obstetricians, we use the existing network at the primary and secondary levels to educate future specialists. There are currently 58 specialists working in the system and it would be impossible to train only two centres. However, given that smaller obstetrics are trained and accredited for this training in accordance with laws and regulations, part of the education also takes place in these maternity wards. About a year, a year and a half out of five years. These are special, specialised programmes of 26 which each specialist must carry out in accordance with the provision of education to relevant mentors, which are also accredited. If there's been a reorganisation, we'll have to adjust it to a circle. However, it is very difficult to train gynaecologists for certain environments and to train them outside the parent environment. The existing network is valid. These operators are accredited and can implement part of the programme there as well. Very simple, the smallest maternity wards 19 months from 60 can perform in this environment. Based on what information? Of course, whenever we jump professionally, maybe we don't even touch the economic salary, but we jump to the political level, we can use those indicators that suit us best. In recent months, in recent months, we have been introducing very quickly quality indicators in the area of gynaecological-natal activity, where it is also important how many interventions are performed, how many interventions are performed during a given period. That's what might be a little more worrying for the minister. Let me cheer you up or somehow share my concern with you, in small maternity wards there were some of the best data from 2005 to 2009 – because in the field of maternity there is a special national prenatal information system – in one of the maternity wards there were 10 days without birth, in another maternity ward there were 352 days between two births, in one of the maternity wards there were 39 days without a C-section. These are the indicators, these are the data that we will have to discuss if we want to have a safer and better quality healthcare service in the field of maternity and gynaecology and avoid some indicators. I thank you for opening up maternal mortality, which is an extremely important and good indicator when we compare countries with each other. In fact, this better shows the quality of pre- and postpartum health care, and vaguely shows maternity safety. In fact, 24 cases have been reported in Slovenia since 2000-2008, where we have very few deaths if taken for a longer period. Thus it would be possible, in principle, to have one maternal death in smaller maternity wards with 500 births at 14 years of age, and one in larger maternity wards such as the Gynaecological Center each year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u273	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u274	Yes, because I know that Mr. Secretary wanted to explain this matter in more detail, and he's running out of time. I would therefore like to ask for an additional reply. Having understood that the final study will be available in January and that all these quality indicators will be more closely discussed. Of these, I think maternal mortality is very important. Even though it's a small number of deaths, I think it's about three deaths every three years. This kind of thing happens to us on average, by having fewer deaths than we've had in recent times. In the early 1990s, maternal mortality was lower and then increased. At the same time, this mortality proves what the general health status of pregnant women is and what accessibility to the health care of pregnant women is. This is a very important indicator, which other countries are also heavily using. As a result, I felt that it was important for us to talk about this indicator in a special way. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you to explain to the end what you have prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u275	Minister Dorian Marusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u276	Thank you very much for the opportunity offered, because much is happening in this area and I think that for developed civil society, one of the main concerns for children and mothers before, during and after childbirth. Slovenia has very good indicators here. It is right that you have warned that it is not possible to compare maternal mortality to maternity safety. In fact, the smallest obstetrics during the observed period from 2000 to 2008, when we collected data, did not record maternal deaths. There have been 24 deaths in Slovenia since 2000-2008. The best period was from 2000 to 2003 when there was no one. In the last two years of observation between 2007 and 2008, after 3 deaths. Two deaths were recorded in maternity wards when they were moved elsewhere, i.e. from other births to the Ljubljana Clinical Centre and the Maribor Clinical Centre. There were seven of those who happened after the hospital leave and 21 during the maternity treatment alone, virtually none in the smallest. I would just like to point out that maternal mortality is an important indicator that places us in a high position in European and wider space. However, it is certainly not useful to discuss what the Gynaecological-Paternity Health Care Network should be like in the Slovenian area from primary to tertiary level, so that we can ensure safe and quality treatment, which is also largely related to safety, experience, in some way also to the training of those who provide such care. I mentioned a few of these indicators. There's going to be a lot of it in the study. When this study is limited by the profession, of course I will go to public debate and try to convince the people and residents of Slovenia that it is necessary to take this path in order to ensure the most secure and quality treatment in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Here in the immediate vicinity of our building is the place where we should stand once – whether it will be or not – we will see – the National and University Library. But at a time when things were happening, when the area had to be searched for an archaeological heritage, so far there was a lot going on with this project, and I ask you first: Who owns this land? Because we know there's a parking lot on this property today, where the parking lot is being picked up. Who's picking it up and who's running this parking lot? In this context, too, perhaps, what are the plans, if any, since before the start of the mandate it was said that Nuk would begin to take place in 2011, it is now announced that a new call will be issued and that the project, as envisaged, will be re-examined or determined whether it is the most appropriate, in short, to prepare a new project. In this regard, I am interested in: Has a call been made? Is there something going on about this? When can we expect to get a Nuk 2?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u279	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u280	Thank you so much for asking. An important topic, NUK 2 is one of the nuts we're trying to crack. When the government examined and obtained expert opinions, it decided to abandon the previous project and to withdraw from the signed contracts and, in parallel, prepare or prepare all necessary elements of the starting point for a new call for architecture and bankruptcy. We expect it to be published early next year. In the meantime, I am personally paying the greatest attention to the search for financial resources to build this investment. We know that this was, in fact, one of the main reasons for this project to have undergone a number of transformations over a long period of 20 years. One of the important reasons for not carrying out this investment, which has become a symbol of such inefficient investment by the State, was the lack or absence of a clear answer to the question of how to finance this project. So I think we're close to a solution. The invitation to tender has not yet been issued and it will be launched in early next year. It is said that together with all the elements that will indicate the feasibility of the project, in particular by providing financial resources. That's the answer to the last part of your question. As regards the first land itself, I reply that, of course, all parcels in this temporary parking area in Nuk 2 are owned by the Republic of Slovenia and are managed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which was decided by the Government in September 2009. According to the Government Decision of 24 November 2009, the municipality of Ljubljana, the manager remains MVZT and the temporary user is MOL. Purpose is unchanged, that is, Nuk 2, this is also evident from the new UN – municipal spatial plan – the city municipality. So we manage the land, the user is MOL, MOL, and as a person of public law performs public tasks as defined by the Law on Local Self-Government, including regulating the area for the purpose of peaceful transport. In accordance with the contract signed, MOL is responsible for the collection of parking space, the contract has until March 2011, the extension is possible, so far we do not formally have such a role. If such an application occurs, we will examine and comply with the applicable rules on the handling of real property. Above all, it is also in the light of progress made in the implementation of project Nuk 2. Without concluding this contract with the city council, there would be no significant costs for the country. For we had the demands of the competent department of the Ministry of Culture that we should protect the excavations that remained in place – important artifacts have been removed – electricity supply, as well as silence and land management, so that it would not be dangerous for humans. We know that this building pit has long been lonely, fenced, fenced. People's safety has been alerted several times. We have made an assessment of the costs of shutting down the protection of the material of the installation for the rehabilitation of this building pit and the assessment by a judicially executed evaluator, the official one, amounted to over EUR 400,000. We have committed the city’s congregation to the full cost of preparing for the drying up of this pit, protecting all the things that were to be protected there, and preparing for this parking lot. It is also bound by the contract to reimburse the original state of the contract at its own expense after the expiry of the contract. This is the state of things as far as this parking lot is concerned. With regard to the state of the Nuk 2 project, I believe that we will also be able to inform the public at the beginning of next year with good news for all those waiting for this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u282	I'd still like to know how much of this parking lot is coming together. And if I understand correctly, then this goes into MOL's budget, given the contract? I wouldn't want to be some kind of fortune teller, but once the parking lot is set up, it usually stays in the parking lot or at least for a while. I'm almost certain you'll extend this contract. Marca, as you predicted, will continue. But what I'm interested in is, given the proximity of the Faculty of Philosophy, which probably has parking problems, including employees, etc.: Did they turn to you so that maybe they could use this space? Because now, of course, someone is charging and we know that this is a very profitable business in Ljubljana, not to say as much as possible the disease of previous and current management – the garage houses themselves and the parking lots themselves, where they collect parking spaces. In view of the fact that the owner is a state, let's just say that, if it was really a cost or you say it was the cost of regulating the parking lot and securing the archaeological heritage of EUR 400 000, then I suppose they won't get it in the parking lot because it's a lot of money. But it's pretty strange that then MOL still agreed to such conditions, because then they're inconvenient to them. Man sees it from that information you told us. In the excellent management and management of Ljubljana, this is probably not a problem, or a solution is hidden, or why, in the final stage, who did these things. So if we asked the Minister of Finance, there was no damage to the property or it was not on the State's behalf to someone else, in this case the Municipality of Ljubljana. Did you check that out?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u283	Does he want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Of course, the decision to conclude this contract is not within the competence of the Ministry. We have prepared it at the initiative of the City Municipality, which has been motivated to a large extent also by the closure of the parking lot in the Congress Market. I also think that the fact that the application for extension has not yet come to light shows that, in fact, they are also assessing whether the possible opening of a parking space in the Congress Market will take place, when and when this need for a city will actually be provided to residents, residents and all those who go to Ljubljana for work or when suitable parking areas will be provided in this area. Depending on this, it is likely that they will play a role. As I said, we have prepared a contract, examined it from all perspectives, mediated it to the government in intersectoral coordination. The Ministry of Public Administration is primarily responsible for the availability of real property, which has also participated in inter-departmental coordination in the conclusion of the contract itself or this decision of the Government. All other ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, were also involved, and the Government unanimously approved or adopted this decision and thus made it possible to do so. Whether the city municipality has this loss or gain I find this difficult to judge, but I know for a certainty that the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has requested us to have, and we have not had money for it in the budget, to provide adequate insurance for both that heritage that remained there and other aspects of this long-standing open building pit. And for us, it was also an economical decision. We will see what will happen next from the point of view of the extension of the contract and the possible interest of the city municipality and those parked there. On the other hand, at the beginning of next year, even before deciding on the possible extension of this contract, I am sure that all the elements with which we will be able to predict with certainty when the city hall will have to return this building pit to its original cost, again, and allow us to begin the construction of this facility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u285	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u286	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the Minister's reply, we hold a debate. In fact, if you have a contract with the Municipality of Ljubljana, you certainly also have a way of controlling it, and from this you could probably know what the revenues, expenditure and so on are. In addition, I feel that the city’s congregation is poorly concerned about its heritage. For the last time on the Committee on Culture, we had a debate on the protection of Plečnik's heritage in the case of the market or of Vodnik's market, so I think that the Ministry should be the one that controls things, because a lot of architects, archaeologists and other experts were at the meeting and they said that in some things the city council is quite deaf to the protection of the heritage. Even the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts warns that some things should be re-examined. We know that when building on the Congress Square, they dig up the surrounding buildings, including the very important Ursulin Church and so on. I am not sure that MOL is the one who best cares about heritage, so, as I say, I suggest we hold a debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the answer will be decided by the assembly on Thursday, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Janko Weber will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Dear Mr. Secretary! Today is an up-to-date day, and it's kind of related to my question. We find that the life expectancy of the people in Slovenia is increasing. I hope to say that also because we have adequate care for the elderly in their homes for the elderly and because they sometimes provide themselves with adequate care by investing in the purchase of protected dwellings. So, even with the purchase of protected dwellings, they solve their housing problem at an old age and face the problem, that is, when the concessionaire, who then provides care in protected apartments, issues an account for his service, he also credits the value added tax in this account. And when they add up the annual amounts it spends on this supply, they find that, for example, they spend EUR 1000 per year on the supply of one suitor, and then EUR 400 on the value added tax. So an extremely strong additional burden that the state takes to bring this tax into its budget somehow. And given that many have invested most or almost all of their savings in securing a secure apartment, this is a very big problem. And given that the law allows social protection to amend or supplement the terms and conditions of the contract by the authority responsible for the award of the concession, I am interested in: Will you examine and issue a decision on the basis of an official duty on which these suppliers will not be obliged to pay value added tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u289	Mr. Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u290	Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to say how the current rules of this matter are running as regards the provision of institutional protection for older people in nursing homes. This is an example of housing provided by DEOS, which accounts for rent and rent tax and here, as it is said, thus providing institutional protection for the elderly. In 2003, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs awarded a concession for the performance of institutional protection to the DEOS or the Centre of Older Persons in Medvod. The facility in which the concessionaire provides services for the institutional protection of the elderly is primarily owned by Loteria Slovenije, and in part also owned by natural and certain legal persons. Most of the natural persons of their residential unit are handed over to the DEOS, which provides institutional protection for the elderly in some units, and in some units the owners or their relatives who meet the conditions also live and receive the services of institutional protection of the elderly themselves. The award of concessions for such an activity shall be governed by a social security concession regulation which provides, inter alia, in Article 8 that the concessionaire, as one of the conditions for carrying out the activity, must also provide evidence of the ownership of the premises, which proves either by renting a library statement or by a lease contract for an object or space for an indefinite period of time, with a notice period of one year or more. Since in a particular case the concessionaire was not the owner of the facility, it had to obtain rental contracts from the owners of the premises. The main component of the rental contracts is also the monthly rental price, which the concessionaire directs to the owner to pay his apartment unit, then the concessionaire deducts 20% of the income advance when the property is leased and the owners pay, according to our information, the corresponding taxes from this title on income payments, like all other citizens who rent their property. The main question, and this is, as the core of your question, is whether the owner who is staying in his unit and receiving institutional protection services is obliged to pay the rent tax for renting the apartment unit. The owner of an apartment in a particular facility must therefore surrender his apartment if he wishes to carry out an institutional protection concessional activity. From the rent received for the rent of the apartment, as each lessee must pay the corresponding tax, both if the apartment is broadcasting or if the user is in his own apartment an institutional protection service. That's how we're doing it now. The condition is that the concessionaire must be the owner or tenant of the premises. It should be pointed out that this case, which you are referring to, is the only case for once in the Republic of Slovenia where institutional protection services are carried out in protected dwellings, and that out of 186 concession cities there are only 16 cases where the owner is also the recipient of institutional protection services. This question, which is illogical, we will also examine and try to resolve this issue differently, within existing rules, if possible, or when amending the Social Protection Act, which also regulates only the concession of social protection activities and also in relation to the Long-Term Care Act. And another possibility is, it is a matter of examining this issue in connection with the tax administration or through tax regulations to resolve this illogical situation. Unfortunately, we have stumbled upon it in the course of the implementation of these services, and this has not been done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u291	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u292	Thank you for your comprehensive response. However, I must admit that, given that the owners of protected dwellings have been waiting for some time for an answer, there is certainly a very current question: When can they expect a change in the law or the inclusion of this solution in your ministry’s work programme? The time frame I think is extremely important that the message is as appropriate, clear and timely as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u293	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u294	I must admit that I have been briefed recently on this issue as well. I'm going to commit to at least getting to the basic question as soon as possible. Of course, the direction in which the answer will be sought depends on when it will be settled. The Social Welfare Act will be sent to public hearing in the coming weeks. The Long-Term Care Act is in fact ready, and we are still dealing with a very complex question of how we will finance this activity. In this case, if this issue is to be resolved through legislation, it will be necessary to wait a few months. However, if within existing rules we can resolve this issue differently than we are now, we can hope for a quicker solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Ambassador Milenko Ziherl will ask the Foreign Minister Mr Samuel Žbogar and Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister and to the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question concerns the meeting of Pahor-Kosor, when the idea of joint control of Slovenian airspace was also suggested. At the time, the idea came across a very strong response in Slovenia, and I think it was also somehow buried by the President of the country himself. However, what has been said is that somehow it is likely that we need to process to such a stage to come up with an answer. That's why I'm asking: What's the state of this idea? Is it breaking down or building up? It seems a little surprising to me why you change, assign things that run as well as butter. How does this affect the international commitments already signed or fled to Slovenia as a slightly older member of the NATO Union? Croatia is just a novelty. Slovenia has accepted some commitments on the common control of airspace in the wider area, which is implemented by one of the countries in NATO, one of our neighbours and other than Slovenia, Hungary. Then it would be logical to extend this area to Croatia. Besides, I'm wondering: In the event of a change, does Croatia at all meet NATO standards in these respects or what their equipment is? Would it not be related to the additional costs, to the additional heated debates in Parliament, if these costs were necessary? In terms of intercepted aviation, Croatian aviation has an outdated MIG-21, which will soon be more attractive to the military museum or even more to train pilots. In addition, we know that two months ago there was also an accident, collision or collision of two planes in the back of Split. Radar systems also come from Yugoslavia, and there is no data available to provide any new information. That's why I'm interested in compatibility and whether it fits today's standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Ziherl. Which minister will be the first to answer? Mr. Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would have made an introduction first before answering a specific question. Indeed, the Presidents of the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia met at the end of October. In particular, they met with a view to resolving open issues, seeking economic opportunities and strengthening foreign cooperation between countries, especially now that the border issue as a problem has been removed from the table of bilateral relations. This was the primary purpose of the meeting. This is also kind of a regular meeting, which has been held by the Presidents of governments since last year. During the meeting, Croatia also made a proposal or presented a proposal for joint airspace control of the two countries, and the rest was the same. The proposal was not even presented in detail, but it was only suggested or presented the idea of the possibility of considering common airspace control. As you have already said, and as we all know, Slovenia has been part of the integrated airspace of the Member States of the Alliance since 2004. While the Alliance is based on solidarity, i.e. without costs for recipient countries, it is concerned about airspace control for those countries which do not have these own capacities. Slovenia is one of such countries and since 2004 the air space has been controlled by NATO aircraft. So this physical control is carried out by Italy with its aircraft. Hungary is also involved. Due to the airports or auxiliary airports available there, we also have a technical agreement with NATO, so that the current solution is assessed both by Slovenia and by NATO as satisfactory and appropriate. With regard to the specific question of what has happened since the presentation of the idea at the meeting of the two Heads of Government. Slovenia has not received any concrete proposal, an initiative, an elaborate proposal, as to what such cooperation would look like. So we don't have some basis for making decisions or just studying. Since then, except that we have looked again at how air space control is exercised over Slovenia, and found that it is appropriate both from Slovenia's point of view and from NATO's point of view, we have not made any decisions, we have not spoken or discussed any other solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u300	Thank you for asking. Let me complement this answer with some other elements, which also complement the rest of what you have asked. In fact, it is not enough to control the airspace to have only interceptor planes, but you must also have the means to integrate into the airspace command system and you must also have the appropriate radars, as you said. Slovenia has both a complete radar system and all interfaces linking the radar image, a review of our space into an allied integrated airspace control system. So, what we could talk about, as a common capacity, are only aircraft interceptors, but you know very well that we have recently discussed with you the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, where until 2025 we did not mention the purchase of interceptor planes. We estimate that the solution, as offered within the framework of the Allied Forces, is that countries with such capabilities use these capacities for those countries that do not have them, that they are appropriate, that they are effective and that they are rational. It is true, however, that the fact that it is temporary, as agreed in accordance with the above-mentioned technical agreement, must also be taken into account for 2011, and then new additional arrangements will have to be adopted, and Slovenia wants these new arrangements for the coming years to become permanent in the manner agreed upon so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Ambassador Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, chairman. Welcome to the minister, the minister, the MPs, the MPs! I'd like to present the Minister of Economy to Mrs Mag. Darji Radic's question about a foreign investor in Maribor. As a result of the prior negotiation and delay by the State or the Ministry of Economy, the company X6D Limited, which produces 3D glasses, decided not to build a new factory of these glasses that would stand in Maribor. Slovenia has thus lost about 500 new jobs and a factory of high-tech products, which are not very large. I'm asking: Who in the government or the Ministry of the Economy will take responsibility for this? What will you do to ensure that such a thing does not happen in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Work, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u304	Thank you so much for saying that. I will begin my reply by granting the co-financing procedure for foreign direct investment in accordance with the Regulation and the procedure for granting it in this Regulation. The procedure for allocating funds to a single notifier for foreign direct investment depends on how quickly the investor reacts, it is said how quickly and how fully the investor himself submits his full role. On the other hand, the timing of the hearing also depends on the complexity of the investment project and is also linked to the availability of budgetary resources. Because for such investments, such a large investment, we do not have a specific budget item, but, in essence, when this investment takes place, they are transferred in particular to a specific budget item. I must say that the average time for processing applications for foreign direct investment, I am talking about these major foreign direct investments that are not granted through a public tender, the average time is three months. For example, we have now successfully completed two such major investments. One was an investment for Revoz, where the procedure lasted two and a half months, and the other was for Julon, where the procedure lasted three months. In both cases, however, it was significant that investors reacted quickly, quickly complemented the applications, and I must say that we were also lucky because the funds were also in the budget at the time when the applications were submitted, also in fact provided. In the case of the Cypriot company X6D for the production of these glasses, I must first say that the first time they came forward they wanted to make an investment in Ljubljana. And I cannot say that I am the one who suggested that this investment be made somewhere out of Ljubljana, so also the location of Maribor. Then I must continue to believe that this investment was very difficult, and the role has changed. Since the initial number of thousands, and I do not know how many more jobs, the role has started to change in terms of reducing the number of jobs promised, where there were 500 jobs in the middle of the process. At the end of the day, only 120 jobs remain. In all such companies, we also check ownership in the light of the experience of some of the previous tenders. We have, of course, checked ownership and some other facts that need to be verified. All these things take time. Regrettably, the final phase investor, when the Ministry had already signed a contract, decided not to make such investments to the extent envisaged, is said to be 500 employees and more in Slovenia, because it already had one contractual obligation and has therefore decided for another country. This, of course, concludes the procedure with us. However, we have still given the investor the opportunity, given that the role is now significantly different. The criteria are significantly different for 120 employees or thousands of employees, and the application is significantly different. We have, of course, offered them the opportunity to still take advantage of the invitation to tender and, at least for this, if not a significantly reduced investment now, they will get the money from this call. I have to say, in this case – I have also made this case known in detail to my fellow workers – I can conclude that, as in all other cases, the proceedings were conducted in the same proper, transparent manner. Of course, I hope you understand that, of course, we also want to ensure that the funds are being invested in companies that will actually achieve the objectives they promise at the time of the notification. Of course, at this point, I can only ensure that in the future at the Ministry of Economy for all new cases, some of them are already at the Ministry of Foreign Direct Investment, that we will, of course, manage them as we have done so far, are said to be consistent, transparent, but of course also in accordance with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u306	Thank you, Minister for your answer. It is true and I believe that you have conducted these procedures in concrete terms, and in the end, I also know things that these procedures take three months to obtain certain things. However, you must know that this company was very important for the Styrian region or, say, for Maribor. It's also about connecting with Karera Ormož and so on. This would certainly bring a lot of synergy, and this company is, believe me, also growing in the Slovenian field. Why there are decisions, we don't know. We know for sure that we're becoming a very expensive country, that's a fact. Also, the fact that companies are actually moving from the Styrian part of Austria to neighbouring Austria. It is also a sign of how you will react to these things or what you will do. I would also like to point out that there are quite a few companies in the pool itself in the Maribor work that go bankrupt and still go. We must not miss construction companies here, MTB, Stavbar Maribor. We must not forget Maribor Airport either. Last year, the state decided to effectively exempt Oreh from the strategic economic centre in the state's location plan, but put it on the local side. What do you do? Maribor has always been, regrettably, already during Yugoslavia, the largest economic centre for the whole of Slovenia. Will Maribor be very handicapped again? He is also in Slovenian Gorica Unior, who moved all production to Zreče. A couple of people still working on this job. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u308	Thank you. Otherwise, the issue is now very much expanded to provide general conditions for the management of Slovenian companies. The fact is that Slovenia is in crisis. We also know why he's in crisis. Unfortunately, the main part of the economy and businesses, particularly in the field of Maribor, did not take advantage of this crisis, says they did not take advantage of that time of conjuncture or fat cows, as we would like to say, to develop new products, new services that would make them competitive and also make it easier to cope with the crisis. It's just a fact. We are now trapped in this crisis. I agree with you that the conditions for foreign direct investment as well as for the Slovenian economy are not optimal, that there is still much to be done in this area. In this area, we now have a number of measures planned in the next phase to help companies with good products and good services make it easier not only to cope with the crisis but also to ensure more successful development. As far as Maribor is concerned, I wouldn't be so skeptical. Here, as far as the Oreh project itself is concerned, it would not be so skeptical, you know, that we have now published a call, but it is already open to co-financing the development centres of the Slovenian economy, by which we have essentially replaced the previous resolution on these economic centres, which had the ambitions to set up the walls for one economic centre, while now our call is more focused on co-financing new products, new services and also from the Maribor area, I can tell you today, a few roles have come up, and I am sure that they are successful, well prepared and in this case there is no reason for not to develop any development centre from Maribor in this way. This can then represent the development breakthrough of the Slovenian economy or Maribor. Everyone, both Maribor and all other parts of Slovenia, needs a new development breakthrough, and I actually see no reason why Maribor, which has one infrastructure and is a recognised industrial centre, is lagging behind in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, Madam Minister, but in fact, under the statute of the National Assembly, I would like to put this into a debate, a broader debate throughout the National Assembly. I think you agree, because after all, the economy is the one that holds the Slovenian state after all. Finally, it would be very good for us to have a broader debate on the economy on these very topics, which we have somehow opened up, which went beyond the question that I have asked you first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Bezjak, to discuss the Minister's response, will be decided on Thursday in the framework of the votes. Mr Lah, before I give you my word, allow me only to inform the assembly that Mr Minister for Education and Sport has asked me to excuse him after half-nine hours. Mr Lah, you have the floor to ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister and Madam Minister! From the operational programme for environmental and transport infrastructure development, Slovenia has the right to spend around EUR 855 million from 2007-2013 and the right to spend from 2007-2010 approximately EUR 712 million 310 000. The signed contracts are until 31. 8. 2010 around 480 million. The use of these funds is very poor because the certified claims are up to 31. 8. 2010 alone is 122 million 800 000, from around 605 million 463 thousand spending rights to 2010 and very little to the right to spend the entire programming period, only 7.8%. For the operation to be completed, it is important to have certified applications and which we need to use practically by 2015, so 1 + 2. I am concerned that this implementation or this drawing-up of European funds will not be carried out in order to ensure that the funds remain. I also spoke with the Minister for Environment and Space, who has difficulties in the feasibility of these projects. 2010 was three tenders worth EUR 162 million and three operations were confirmed. If we look at these projects, they've already already been implemented, so all we have to do is draw up the funds. By the end of this year, there are still some projects, some have already been implemented, especially motorways, and some projects concern me because infrastructure is of an infrastructural nature and the readiness of these projects is questionable. That's why I'm asking: In particular, what water supply projects will be co-financed in the 2013 Environment and Transport Infrastructure Development Programme, depending on their readiness? There are some very extensive projects in the operational programme where readiness is questionable.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u313	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! First of all, I have to categorically reject today the repeated statement that European funding is poor. When the President of the Government mentioned earlier that he had spoken before today's Members' questions to someone – he showed me because I gave him this information. We are in the first third of all countries of the European Community after drawing, for example before France and other countries. So I can't accept such a flat-rate assessment. I do not have time for more detailed evidence here, but I will focus in particular on the area that you have highlighted, and this is actually one of the more sensitive areas in the entire European cohesion policy – environmental and transport infrastructure. This is largely co-financed by the Cohesion Fund under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. You know, a few months ago, we started or entered into the process of modifying operational programmes primarily for the reason that we are optimally pumping up European funds, these 4.1 billion euros. Of course, it has been shown that, following the confirmation of the European Commission, large part of the allocations have been appropriate. However, for the part where doubts have appeared, due to the less likely that certain projects would not have been carried out before the final version submitted to the European Commission, we have carried out an analysis of the feasibility of large-scale projects under this operational programme. So that the latest version of the operational programme, which is based on our latest information – that is to say informally already harmonised, will be formally confirmed at the beginning of the second year – in this form that there are no better projects such as inside. In particular, I will answer your question about what projects are planned to co-finance from the point of view of preparedness, which is a very correct question because we are all aware that placement in both environmental and transport infrastructure facilities is a long time. According to this analysis, we have included the supply of drinking water in Pomurje, which contains three systems, in the Saleška Valley, in the Drava basin, the second batch, and on the coast and on Kras. I am talking about major projects under the ROPI operational programme. When we are aware and at a certain risk precisely because of the placement and acquisition of permits, we have decided, at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, to enter these processes proactively with our colleagues at the Ministry of Environment and Space and colleagues at the Ministry of Transport, to set up projects of a group that will take care of these projects on a weekly basis to move. And for Pomurje, I can tell you that next week we have a meeting with engineers, we also have the world of the region, and with the coordinators of these beams precisely for this reason, to speed up the procedures necessary for these projects to start at the end of 2011, at the latest in early 2012, because otherwise, as you have said, rule N + 2 will not help us to properly implement them and, of course, then we will recover the funds from the European budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u316	Thank you very much. My aim was not to criticise, but to ensure that projects in the field of transport infrastructure and in the area of waste water disposal and treatment, water supply and waste management are carried out. The problem is the acquisition of land for public benefit, service contracts and placement in space. We know how many municipalities have adopted the OPN, and perhaps some facilities are also dependent on it, so I am concerned about the feasibility of these projects. One of the projects is also the drywater system, which you did not mention before; I know in particular, that is the investment of five municipalities, is at the level of created ideas projects. It's taken us a long time to coordinate on the ideas, and now we've got some creative projects. However, as an intermediary body, the ILO does not cooperate well or ensure that this project will be part of co-financing, even though it is part of this operational programme which has been sent to Brussels. That is why we are concerned that we have spent quite a bit of money, our own resources, our municipal resources. We need at least a good million euros to prepare the projects, and in the end we need a lot of effort to obtain the land of the service contracts, a few 100 if not a thousand. In the end, if there is no co-financing, it is better to use these funds to replace local pipelines than for such a project. That is why we need a firm assurance. The coordinator sent you a letter to meet with the intermediate body, he says to the ILO representatives, and to set a deadline for the project to be prepared to be safely financed in this programme. Because once you've said that as long as it's not until then, you're going to delete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u318	Thank you. I mentioned earlier that I did not list all the projects that are in the OP ROPI, I especially counted these larger ones. This list doesn't have to be the last. The closer we get to Day D, the more important it will be whether the project is ready. And if another project is prepared then, so ready-to-go, we'll replace the projects. I am aware of this water supply in the Dry landscape and will also call on the Ministry of Environment and Space and, if necessary, we will also make a project group for this pipeline, as I said, to reduce the time unit from one month to one week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Ambassador László Göncz will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In some areas of the Republic of Slovenia, where a broadband network of electronic communications is unfortunately not built, development options are significantly worse than where they are available. In the area of some parts of Eastern Slovenia, such as Gorička in Prekmurje, the issue is extremely pressing, so I am again asking you a question in this regard. I have been referred to recent events surrounding the call for projects to build an open broadband network of electronic communications. On the basis of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology’s published invitation to tender, it has shown that at least some progress will be made in this area, but it is possible that this will not be the case in certain cases. As in your reply to my previous question, you yourself have identified, in certain, particularly rural areas, telecommunications companies do not have a particular interest in solving problems, so it is essential that this issue is particularly at the forefront of the call for proposals and decisions. On the basis of some facts and information, the situation in the context of this tender in terms of telecommunications opportunities should again provide the most affected citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and their municipalities with a different, very commercially oriented approach to solving this pressing problem. I do not wish to operate on specific names of companies, but I must point out that the consortia of 10 Gorički municipalities, which have joined together in the desire to build a joint project, are in great doubt in terms of the appropriateness of decision-making. The tender was also accompanied by a contract with a selected private partner, which regularly carried out the selection procedure. The call was made by the tenderers with whom the competitive dialogue was carried out and, on the basis of the tenders, the choice was the most economically advantageous. A complication occurred because one of the tenderers, without looking into the documentation, submitted an audit request. The State Audit Commission has repealed the decision on the selection of the private partner, although it has confirmed only one of the 12 irregularities identified. However, I have no right to interfere with her decision. However, it seems important to me that the expert committee has assessed that the tenderer who submitted the audit request would not have been selected in any case, including by showing the lowest contribution of private resources. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Are you aware at the Ministry that the issue of formal decisions can be further affected by the project in a sensitive demographic area where the commercial interest of businesses is not present and thus further undermine the development of the area? But above all, I'm asking you: Do you actually want to do something in the direction that the project, as prepared by the 10 municipalities of Gore, does not go to waste because of formal obstacles or even some partial interests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Gregor Golobic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Members and Members, colleagues! Your question is difficult, and it can be in some way. In fact, you ask me, I believe that it is more out of some kind of distress and suffering that can be understood whether the formal reasons in some public call are worth it or not. The answer can only be one: there can be no reason other than formal reasons; anything else would lead to some willfulness and intransparency, which no one wants, nor can we afford. With regard to the specific role, I have obtained information that the application submitted by Moravske Toplice on behalf of the wider consortium of ten municipalities was incomplete. It showed up at the opening. She was invited to complete it. She sent two supplements. However, these additions still lacked a contract with the selected co-investor for the construction, management and maintenance of the network. The municipality informed the Ministry that an application had been made for the revision of their selection procedure. We have not yet been informed of the decision of this commission at the Ministry. In your question, you state that in one of the 12 points of the complaint, the complainant is expected to succeed and that the Commission has annulled the decision. Unfortunately, this role is formally incomplete and cannot be taken into account by the Commission. Of course, I am aware that such a decision, such a development, is not a decision, but a development of events, an impact on the development or non-resolving of the necessary mysteries, the pressure of people in individual, particularly demographically disadvantaged areas. What the Ministry can do in this context, and we have done so, is to organise a public call to all municipalities that meet the conditions, so that it concerns their area and is included in a map of so-called white foxes, where telecommunications companies do not have a commercial interest in building these networks, so in the future without this subsidy and the contribution of the country or European resources, that everyone is in an equal position to ensure a level playing field for this call. And as we would like to see as many of these projects succeed within the resources still available, we cannot help but see that the process is formally correct, because only from this point of view can we talk about legality. I have already mentioned that this is about European funds. And control – Minister Gjerkes has already left – over the use of these funds at all stages of the procedure, invitation, selection and implementation is extremely thorough. It is implemented by the State Audit Commission, which has already been mentioned, the Office for the Control of the Budget of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and finally by the European Commission. Thus, care for the proper implementation of this procedure should be at the forefront, otherwise, at the end of the burden of this cost, after, for example, a decision has been overturned as a result of the infringement, it has fallen upon these congregations. The municipality therefore applied within this invitation to tender for the first opening of applications, which was on 15 October and the second opening will be on 14 January. It is possible to submit applications to another opening by 12 January. So that's the way out of this invitation to tender. I hope that this consortium will apply, carry out these procedures in a way that no one, with any intention whatsoever, who, unfortunately, cannot be judged within this procedure, will be able to challenge, and will be able to compete within this call for funds that will still be available. Although we are working to make significant breakthroughs in this area. We would also like to continue to obtain additional funds through reallocations within operational programmes. This is an important one of the key infrastructure investments in this environment. We want to define broadband access in the new national programme as a universal service, a service that the State must provide to all citizens. New technologies allow this to happen. That is why we have also – I think – achieved with relatively great success, with problems as well as in Goričko – managed, digitised broadcasting and released the spectrum on which new technologies can be provided – with the extent of the resources available – this coverage with broadband services.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Göncz, please, you wish to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u324	Thank you very much. In particular, I wanted to ask what has now been partially answered, with any additional means or with any additional programmes. But I would add so much that more than with municipalities, if I'm very specific, the problem is actually with the population, and that with the young population. There is no parliamentary forum and I am doing what I am doing intensively so that at least a few young people do not come forward specifically with this subject, so as to be able to integrate into Internet and other links. There is indeed a demographic issue and it is a national issue, from this point of view of the state level. So I wanted to ask: In addition to these tendering conditions, are you thinking about an additional option? Unfortunately, we know that not all of them are going to turn now, but a lot of time, unfortunately, it's not, and we can't count on 15 or how many years this problem is going to be solved. I don't know if you have anything else to add to this, but I'd like to thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u325	Minister Golobich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We share this concern with you. In fact, this is a major problem, and we already know today, by the number of applications and the extent of the resources that this crisis entails for people in many environments of Slovenia where they are, I will say, in this sense of the white fox and which threatens such ambition that young people stay there and live on, as well as the development of the economy in that environment and all those other public services that are not actually imagined today without the appropriate telecommunications backbone or involvement in the spectrum of broadband services. We are working hard to do so, and this call will obviously not suffice. We have known this for quite some time, we are working to ensure that at the beginning of next year, when this debate will take place within the Government, how to prevent resources from being redistributed to projects where possible on various grounds that cannot be spent in the financial perspective. These consortia, their scale, their investment potential, the number shows that these funds can be used wisely. I am counting on the Government to be able and recognise this debate early next year the priority of addressing this issue in terms of demographic policy and also in terms of more equitable regional development. This is the fastest where I can see that additional funds could be provided at this call of approximately EUR 45 million, which is currently under way, which you are actually asking. Everything else is more long-term, but not again for 15 years, but in the coming years, I think it will be the basis and some commitment of the country through the national programme in this area, which, as I said, wants to establish broadband as a universal service. What is now qualified as a universal service in Slovenia is a fixed telephone line, a classic phone. This is what we want to define in the future with this standard - basic broadband service, access. The new national programme will set priorities in this way. Through this – and the document will also address the National Assembly – I am counting on it to accept it in the coming year – to support it with adequate financial resources and other mechanisms so that these white foxes will be properly filled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Member Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic and Minister of Culture Majdi Širca. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u328	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! In December 2009, the Government adopted a decision initiating the liquidation procedure of the Idria Living Silver Mine. In October this year, the programme of comprehensive protection of cultural heritage and natural values related to the Idrija mine. In April 2007, she also approved a programme to maintain the unscathed part of the cave and to monitor after the finished closures in the Idri mercury mine in closure for the period 2008 to 2012. On the basis of the law and the programmes adopted, the State remains under a permanent obligation to maintain an unscathed part of the cave, including a museum mine, monitoring and payment of mining damage. In June 2008, the Information Research Centre for Mercury was also established as an internal organisational unit of the mine. On the basis of the origins of the programme adopted by the Government in October this year, it is stated that the Information Research Centre will continue to become independent within RZS Idrija in liquidation and gradually be excluded from the company into a separate legal and organisational entity. Minister of Economy Mag. Darjo Radic, I'm asking: Under what legal form will the work, namely maintenance, monitoring, museum mine, which the State will still have to provide after the liquidation of the Idria Living Silver Mine? Mrs. Majdo Shirca, Minister of Culture, I ask: What is the fate of the protection of cultural and technical monuments owned by the mine after the destruction of the Idria Living Silver Mine? At the same time, I am also giving the Government of the Republic of Slovenia an initiative, or an initiative, to the competent ministry, to adopt as soon as possible an amendment to the programme for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and the monitoring of the finished closures in the Idri mercury mine for the period 2013-2017. I thank both ministers in advance for their reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Which will be the first to answer? Mag. Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Chairman. At the end of October, the Government, as you have already mentioned, adopted a comprehensive programme for the protection of the cultural heritage of the natural values associated with the mercury mine in Idrija. These baselines include comprehensive protection of cultural heritage, pre-planned implementation of remedial, environmental protection measures. as an important part of the measures to ensure, of course, a healthy, safe and quality environment for the population. The second point also provides for the permanent obligations of the State relating to the maintenance of the unspoiled part of the cave, including that of the museum mine, monitoring and also to the payment of mining damage for the execution of all these activities. The Ministry of the Economy already has the funds provided in 2010 as well as in 2011, 2012. However, the fact is that these activities will be transferred to the relevant operator. This is still to be decided after the liquidation of a company that is planned for about 30 years. 6. says for the first half of next year. The baselines also provide for the gradual decommissioning of this mercury information centre, based on previous comparative studies, into a separate legal and organisational entity. What legal form will be concrete, yet to be agreed. With regard to the exclusion of the information centre from this mercury mine in liquidation, preliminary interviews with the Municipality of Idrija are envisaged, of course, with a view to ensuring that this legal and organisational entity, which will carry out certain works after the liquidation of one company, will work as effectively and effectively as possible. For the effective protection and development of cultural heritage, the starting point is also to transfer the works of real estate to the Republic of Slovenia and to the administration of the Ministry of Culture. This transfer will take place after the liquidation of the company. In this regard, the Minister has added more to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u332	More or less, we will say things we already know, especially Mr Bevk. The Member of Parliament is asking about the way in which cultural and natural heritage is protected in an integrated manner, which is linked to the Idrija mine. Of course, all the preconditions for integrated protection to take place have been confirmed by the Government's decision, namely the starting points for the programme of comprehensive protection of cultural heritage and the natural values associated with the Idrija mine, which provided the basis for then taking action, among other things, to provide adequate resources within the 2011 budget at the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, we all know that, after we know that Mexico has withdrawn, I have appointed the Idria and Almaden nomination monitoring committee to UNESCO's World Heritage List, and you, Mr Bevk, also the chairman of this committee, have also appointed a working group to prepare a nomination for Idrija's entry into UNESCO's World Heritage List, which is already working intensively. Among other things, he is going to Madrid tomorrow to the Ministry of Culture, where he will determine how this proposal will be implemented jointly. So if we are talking about strict protection of cultural heritage, which is undoubtedly linked to the entry into the UNESCO heritage list, which we know has its history, without Slovenia making mistakes in this history, otherwise it would have been registered, but because of other prepared elements that were linked to unprepared other countries, which we are not yet registered for, but because of the steps we are taking together, including with the local community and the Ministry of Economy, I believe that it will be linked to the mine itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u334	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'm such a magician. Radic as Mrs Shirci, ministers of the economy and culture, I thank you for their answers. I would also invite them, on my behalf and on behalf of the local community, to Idria after the new year, especially because we have heard today that the liquidation process will somehow be completed by Wednesday next year. We have also heard today that some things have not yet been addressed, such as who will be the contractor of those tasks that the State will have to carry out after the liquidation of the Idri mercury mine, what will be the legal form, who will be the founder of the information and research centre after the elimination or liquidation of the mercury mine. There are quite a few open questions that we need to clear up as soon as possible, because after the company is destroyed, this must not remain in the air, but we must have things ready before. Also due to the liquidation process, we had some difficulties when, for example, we were unable to run on the invitation to tender for the restoration of the mine mine, which is protected as an inheritance of national importance and will also be listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Time is running very fast, so I suggest that we address these issues, which are still somehow open today, as soon as possible and successfully complete them. Because, in addition, the government has supported a very ambitious project, this is a draft of the UN World Convention on Mercury, and of course in this context also the possible acquisition of a centre, a global, for living silver with its seat in Idrija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to? Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u336	I propose that the invitation to Idria, where the Mine is already very well arranged, is valid, but I suggest that we accept this invitation at the time of the Congress, which, as you know, we support and respond in this way, when we are also in greater company of other nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u337	Mrs. Darja Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u338	Thank you. I'm just joining my colleague Majda's opinion. The invitation is valid, and we have already spoken on this subject, and I agree that these issues need to be addressed before the liquidation is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I don't need to be commented on. Maybe just Bevk will invite me, yeah. Mr Daniel Krivec will put the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Franc Križanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia is at the public hearing and also in the government. As we know, in April, a strategy was put into consideration, as a draft, which achieved a fairly high response between users and the public concerned and achieved that this strategy was somehow overturned. The Government now has a completely revised or complementary strategy under consideration, which was also discussed at the public hearing in Novi Gorica in September. The purpose of this strategy, as stated in the document itself, is to "give strategic definitions to specific systemic issues of gambling regulation, such as types of gambling, the ownership structure of concessionaires, gambling benefits, the division of gambling benefits, supervision, concession policy and socially responsible gambling arrangements". The strategy also sets out a framework for the functioning of the country and provides basic guidance for its behaviour in the field of gambling. In conclusion, the document also proposes measures to achieve these strategic objectives and also sets responsibilities and deadlines for the implementation of the measures and monitoring of the implementation of the strategy. That's what he says for the purpose of this document. He concludes: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia as a basis and a starting point for policy management and the adoption of measures in the field of gambling. In line with the strategy, the Ministry of Finance prepares the legal bases governing gambling and simultaneously adapts the rules governing duties related to gambling." That is why I ask the distinguished Minister of Finance, because we have found in the media information that the American gaming corporation Harrah's Entertainment, which has recently even been renamed Caesars Entertainment, is once again interested in investing in Slovenian gaming, specifically in the purchase of ownership stakes in Hit. The investment plans should also be made public by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who is supposed to be very enthusiastic about the investment, and this is what the media say; of course, ministers also support the matter. I'm asking: Does that information hold? And if he's holding: What kind of investment is this? What is the position on this investment by the Hit Administration? How is it that such important decisions are taken before a new strategy for the development of gambling is adopted, which also entails amending legislation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u341	Mr. Minister Krizanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u342	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Ministry of Finance, which is the department responsible for gambling, investors from several parts of the world, including Las Vegas, are turning. And these investors express an interest in investing in Slovenian gaming. This interest is based in fact on the very favourable position of Slovenia, including tourist, transport and transit, and is the fact that it attracts a centre that can be built in Slovenia, guests from an area of 20 million or more, 25 million inhabitants, about 500 kilometers long circle, which then gravity to such centers. The interest of investors has recently been linked to the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia, which is currently under consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The main strategic direction set out in this document is to promote the link between tourism and gambling, it is said, to recognize the importance of investors in gambling if it invests properly and firmly in tourism as well. The main lever is an appropriate concession and tax policy, especially degressive taxation. This also introduces a new category of casinos, so-called gaming and entertainment megacentres, which provide a comprehensive tourist and gaming offer with at least a thousand rooms in an urban tourist area, with 100 gaming tables, 2,000 gaming machines, tourist attractions, sports and recreation centre, health and well-being centre, congress centre and entertainment space. In the case of joint investment with the private sector in the gambling and entertainment megacenter, the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia provides, as an exception, that the ownership share of the state, state-owned companies and local communities may be less than 51 %. In this case, smaller ownership controls are strengthened by the introduction of licences for concessionaires, just as they do in the United States, it is said that much more acute licensing restricts pathological phenomena in this sector. I stress, and here I follow your concern that it is an express interest of several investors to invest in the Slovenian gambling offer and that the decision can only be taken after the adoption of the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia in the RS Government, which we expect this week, following changes in the legislation on gambling and gambling benefits, which we expect in the first half of next year, and on the basis of a public competition. In the case of any change in ownership shares and any change in the ownership shares of the State in companies with a concession for the adaptation of gambling, it should also be noted that the powers and tasks of the State Capital Investment Management Agency and the important role of the National Assembly, which will also adopt a capital investment management strategy in this area for a period of at least three years. The right levers, which you will have in this high choir, will first be in the formation of a new law, then in the design of a strategy, and finally in the decision on possible recapitalisation, with which a major investor could enter one of the already existing centres or start building a new centre in the field of Slovenia, where he would link gambling with significantly greater investments in other tourist infrastructures. Investments in such work amount to about EUR 500 million and more. These are the situations you will discuss only then. Of course, interests already exist from different parts, because Slovenia has a rather interesting position for this part. Thank you very much. But it was no secret, even when the coalition dealt with it, it wasn't written as a secret, and then it came from there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u343	Mr. Krivec, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u344	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say that I strongly agree with you, especially with this procedure, and also with the fact that gambling is very much linked to tourism and investment. I am also interested in your statements yesterday in Finance, where around the new strategy you made some statements that are interesting to me, and I would like your comment as a complement to this reply. One statement was that the new strategy is important for the development of the Hit, which will receive a signal to which to go. This seems interesting to me, but I wonder whether we are writing strategies specifically for an individual user or we are writing strategies to have some system tool that gives us the basis for drafting legislation for all potential users in this space, it is also said that someone who can come out of this system that is now inside the Hit, although I agree that Hit is very important here. Another such statement which in some way disturbed me, because I also know things in some way from a closer and also looked at the strategy, and said, "We have salons that take each other's customers and fail in a previously saturated market." And you say that whoever works successfully will be extended the concession, I'm talking about playrooms. If we read a strategy that is ready, both first and second, it speaks of the fact that salons have evolved significantly more than the Hit casino itself and similar casinos and that at this moment they are significantly more successful than the casinos themselves. Your statement, however, goes against the strategy drawn up by the group within the Ministry of Finance. I am interested in your comment on these two statements, which I think are very important for understanding as well as for the final validation of the strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Minister Križanič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u346	Thank you for two interesting questions. First time. It is clear that the strategy will signal to all casinos that they can look for their further development in connection with investment in tourism, that strategic partners are also being sought and that they can also make a very big breakthrough in this context and that this will also be properly rewarded, counting that the final tax recovery at one large centre will be significantly greater than it is now. It's not just Hit, it's Portorož, and maybe it's other centers that could grow in urban centres or other tourist centers. This is actually a signal, meant as a signal, a dilemma that you will have to resolve in the high choir, will, or, and where to encourage also the development of those smaller salons that have shown some vitality that successfully operate and could grow their frames and grow further into casinos, grand casinos and perhaps further. We are still limiting the ownership structure here, but the debate in Parliament, so we decided, will give a final answer. That's how it's going to stand before you: whether we're going to let the development potentials of the casino down here also from this direction up. As far as saloon business is concerned, they work very differently. I guess there's too many of them. Apparently, where there's too many of them, they take each other's jobs. Clearly, the overall result is worse than what would have been awarded in the past less concessions. We actually allow a completely liberal relationship here. So, the one who survives is to survive. The one who doesn't survive then loses his license. Thus, one after another, some salons that are on edge or have already come to a saturated market are losing their license. This usually happens when it turns out it's not doing a good job. But if he doesn't pay the concession fee, he's already paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Ambassador Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Pursuant to Article 162 of the Water Act, the Water Fund was established at the end of 2002 as a dedicated budget item. This account brings together €25 million annually for the construction, investment and regular maintenance of water infrastructure. Some regions, including those facing extreme flood risks, have not received any funds or are being rejected by the competent services and, on the other hand, there is a strong indication of the unintended and unjustified use of funds. This year's three-day floods in September have caused enormous damage to the watercourse of Poljanska Sora, on public infrastructure, which has also been built by public funds. The Derek River has ripped off a part of the coast and is now endangering the main sewerage pressure channel. We also turned to the competent economic public service for the management of watercourses in the upper Sava area and received the following reply: "The municipal sewerage is responsible for protecting the municipality. And the state protects the infrastructure." However, if we look at the Water Act, Article 91 describes the extent of protection against water damage. Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in four things: Is the local community entitled to water funds when a watercourse threatens public infrastructure built by public funds? Who is responsible for carrying out protection measures against the harmful operation of the river? Where did the funds of the water fund go in 2009 and 2010? Please, if you'll list them for me. Are the funds of the water fund that are intended to be used deliberately, and on what basis are the criteria addressed? What are the concrete projects and at what level will they be financed in the following year 2011? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for asking! We have talked about this issue many times before, and I will be able to say it again more concretely. As you yourself have found, in Article 162 of the Water Act, the Water Fund was also defined by the Water Fund and the funding objectives are foreseen. In this context, water infrastructure, including the purchase of land needed for its construction, the construction of state and local infrastructure necessary for the construction of water infrastructure, this sewerage is not necessary, the purchase of water and coastal land and the co-financing of purchases of coastal land by local communities under Article 16 of this Law, the execution of the tasks of the Institute for Water and Mediterranean or Regional Projects for the construction of water pumping, filtering and water capture facilities and priority water supply lines in accordance with operational programmes for the protection of the environment up to the level of inflows and payments for water rights, for the provision of drinking water carried out as an economic public service. However, in addition to the Water and Water Fund Act, there was also a law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. Under this law, the resources of the water fund are also allocated to the construction of water infrastructure and to the regulation of state and local infrastructure. The problem was caused by the volume of resources that were disproportionately spent under this Act on concessions under the Water Act. The Ministry’s position is also that water infrastructure, as provided for by the Act on concessions, is not in line with the water infrastructure provided for by the Water Act and therefore disproportionately large investments in the construction of the HE chain on the lower Sava are burdened by the Water Fund until 2015. We, or myself, have identified this matter since the beginning of the term of office and have been fighting for this correction for a year and now it is nearing an end, so we have prepared a new law on concessions and on Thursday, 23. 12. at the ILO, we have the first week of internal coordination on the law between Directorates by the end of the year. At the beginning of the year, we will put this law into intersectoral coordination, which will last for fourteen days under the Rules of Procedure. We predict that on 17 January this law will be able to go into the procedure of the Government. The draft 2011 normative work programme stated that this law should be adopted by the end of May. I hope it's sooner. But you need to know one other thing, that here in this House in all the parties, there are also those who advocate financing – which is now the problem – of infrastructure. That is why I look forward to a very interesting debate on "yes" and "against" this concession law in the Inter-Resort coordination and also in Parliament. In 2011, we achieved, by amending ZIPRO, that all inflows will remain in the water fund and an additional five million are accounted for. We are working hard on concessions of those parts that have not yet been collected and the accounts still have a few more inflows from this. I also account for a few inflows from the price correction because it's an agreement to go to prices after the OECD average. So I think that next year we'll be able to pick up a few over thirty million, and then I hope that the things you've just mentioned will come up faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Chaddez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u352	Thank you for your word, once again, Mr Vice President. Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary. Otherwise, you didn't answer everything I asked, and I'd like you to answer it in writing. Given the current problem, however, I would like the debate to take place during the vote on this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u353	Mr Čadež could have made this proposal later, but, nevertheless, your proposal to discuss the Minister's response will be voted on Thursday in the framework of the votes. In the context of the oral question, however, you cannot ask for a special written answer if the Minister considers that this is useful in preparing the debate and will provide you with written answers. Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnić, who will explain the competence of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u354	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice hello to you all! The recent mass protest of farmers in Šikol in Dravska Polje, supported by the Slovenian Farmers' Union, has also demonstrated, among other things, the uncoordinated functioning of the Ministry of Environment and Space with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Unsatisfactory farms had to abandon the processing of agricultural areas and leave them in growth due to the announcement of the first category of water protection zone. However, compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in order to adapt to the measures of the water protection scheme has been suspended. The distinguished ministers who were directly on the ground in September were also informed of the specific case. I'm asking: Did the Ministry of Environment and Space take into account the good practice of the European Community countries that did so before Slovenia before the announcement of the water protection zone of the first category? For example, farmers refer to neighbouring Austria. Second question: Why has the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food not yet paid compensation to vulnerable farms resulting from the Regulation on compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities? Question three: When will Slovenian farmers get the right answers on this issue, as protestors point out, the competent ministry services do not respond to their demands in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, once again, I'm a magician. Dejan Židan, when leaving, announced that he was not competent to answer the question and that Mr Roko Žarić will answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In determining the water protection areas and the water protection regime, our ministry checked several practices in Europe two years ago and found that the Austrian and Bavarian conditions are somehow the most comparable to ours, as well as the way we farm and think. When preparing legislation with us, they followed the Bavarian principle, which was the most complete one, and they came from the view that health, natural drinking water should be maintained as much as possible, since this is also the most economically prudent. Taking care of the water’s good condition or preventing the deterioration of the water’s good condition is the primary task of our ministry. In particular, the protection of drinking water resources used or intended to provide drinking water for residents in public water systems is important. Slovenia, compared with many other EU members, is one of the few countries where its inhabitants can drink naturally untreated water from so-called home taps, and unfortunately we do not appreciate or realize the strategic advantage at all. In doing so, we must also point out that the European rules provide for a reduction in the level of clean-up or preparation of drinking water required for drinking water production, which is an important health and economic aspect, as it has direct effects both on the health of users and on the price of drinking water, which is still very low for us. This year, together with the water and agriculture professional services, we prepared an optimisation of measures in water protection areas, in particular in the field of taking into account the intake of nitrogen-containing mineral fertilisers and the determination or formalisation of the professional boundaries of internal water protection areas. In 2011, we will resume our tasks expeditiously and will also intervene in existing water protection regimes in this regard. We note that in 2008 the ILO prepared amendments and supplemented the Water Act, which provides in Article 79 the legal basis for the payment of compensation to farmers for the reduction of income on agricultural land in water protection areas. In 2009, the Government adopted a Regulation on compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in order to adapt to the measures of the water protection regime. The novelty of this Regulation, which will enable the payment of refunds, to be paid in concrete terms for 2010, is in the government procedure and will be adopted this year. The problem arises because total payments to farmers are limited by European legislation and because there was a need to find a way here, a way for farmers to be as happy as possible and stay within European frameworks. In the following year, we plan to prepare a permanent solution to the problem of compensation and to carry out all procedures for the acquisition of state aid in agriculture in the European Union. In doing so, we expect the active participation of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as other agricultural professions. This is also a case-by-case case record, which is being carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture, so we will also carry out this project together with them. In addition, it will try to address the problem of the use of suitable plant protection products or suitable fertilisers in these water-free areas and even more control the possible black imports of harmful fertilisers from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u358	Thank you very much again for your word. I am truly sorry that the Minister of Agriculture has apologized, but in some ways I am satisfied with the clarification of the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space, who has in some way tried to comprehensively cover the answer both from his field and from the field of his colleague. I agree with what the Minister explains that the legal basis is in the amendments to the 2008 Law on Water, but this is a breakthrough. Look, the farmers were waiting to get an answer as soon as possible to do a late fall or almost winter sowing, and that couldn't have happened. It is said that the land on which the Ministry of Environment and Space has taken care of the reserve of healthy drinking water is abandoned, and we agree with that. What they said in the explanation, followed by the legislation of neighbouring Austria, was that in Austria, which did so before us and also protected the water resources of healthy drinking water, they decided otherwise. And there's no problem. There are harmonising things together with farmers Here in the Slovenian case, on this small country of Slovenia, which is intended for agricultural production, but unfortunately a farmer who is already in some way threatened by all sides, could not produce what if the ministry as a whole could agree on in a timely manner, and could continue with some agricultural production. But if it wasn't, at least I'd get some compensation for it. What is worst in a particular case, however, is that these agricultural lands are growing, and that with a dangerous plant ambrosia, which will do more harm than good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u360	I wouldn't want to argue with you, but when we drove through these areas, they weren't so badly healed. There was good corn growing and there was something else. But it is true that there is probably no income like that if we were farming where there is no protected area. Farmers like to exaggerate sometimes, we know that. We were in a meeting, we had a lot of debate, and we were able to talk and convince them. This is a problem, however, and has been asked to pay farmers as much as possible within European legislation. That's why the whole thing stopped for a while. I think the next year it's going to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič, because you have also asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, if you agree and Minister Žarnic, I propose that we send him a magnetogram of this part of your statements and assess whether any additional reply is needed. Is he okay? Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the outgoing Minister for Education and Sport Dr Igor Luksic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues! Unfortunately, the minister is absent today. A month ago, I asked the minister a similar question, namely, about basketball – the guarantee of the state of Slovenia for the organisation of the European basketball championship. We all know that in early December 2010, the Fibe Management Board unanimously adopted the decision to award Slovenia this European basketball championship in 2013. The basketball association of Slovenia is now awaiting the main work in the organisational and business terms as well as in the field of infrastructure. That's why I'm asking the Minister the question: How will the Ministry of Education and Sport respond to the infrastructure requirements that the organisation of the European Championship brings and at what stage is the selection of halls or locations for new halls? He will also be able to respond at the next meeting. However, if you allow me, I personally believe that existing capacities need to be used in particular. Here I am also thinking of Tivoli Ice Hall, not Jesenica's Ice Hall, which is just under renovation and needs to be careful about new constructions, so that there will be no financial problems when this championship will then be held, which I hope will be successful for Slovenia both in organisational and competitive terms. Like I said, I expect an oral response at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Kolarich. The Minister of Education and Sport will give you an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Ambassador Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Finance, without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, and Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u364	Thank you very much. My custom so far has not been to deal with local municipal issues, but the situation has changed, and I will be forced to do so now. At the beginning of this term, I recall that we have spoken a lot, or a coalition, at several meetings of the National Assembly or at debates of Members, talking about how the former government has been deprived of European funds and in other cases extremely, I will say that nothing has been done, that there has been a shortage of resources, and so on. And it has also been said that, of course, everything will be different in this mandate. A little earlier, Minister, you also said you were satisfied with EU funding and so on. However, look, I have to say this, at least as far as the six mayors I'm communicating with are concerned, so from the area where I was elected myself, they tell me very clearly that they actually have major problems with the invitations. However, when these calls have already been received, the contracts have been signed, and it is in fact already a matter of realisation and remittances, and I am already talking about that stage, the situation is simply such that the municipalities are left to themselves — for a fundamental reason, because things are not being realized. The municipalities are in liquidity trouble, hiring loans and so on. And yet it would suggest that after they call your ministry, somehow your officials point to you, call the County Department, that is, the Ministry of Finance. And the situation is even worse there. I also made sure of that: the phone is not raised or Mrs Bratuškova, the one he never is, but we are talking about the mayors. So I would say, specifically, I also wrote that I would like a smart answer to the question: When do you intend to allocate funds to finance investments under Article 23a of the Law on Local Self-Government and also under Regional Development Programmes? Do you anticipate a slight improvement in the situation in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Franz Križanič, please answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u366	Dr. Gjerkesh and I will share the answer. First, always call Mr Tekavčič, he is the first to be responsible, and in any case he must be available for local self-government and its funding. The first part of the answer to your question is like this. The European funds draw-up system was put in place years ago. While many claim to be very complex, many economists, experts and financial institutions estimate that there is still some advantage here, namely the possibility of returning money to the European budget back are small or reduced to a minimum. This is because we pay all our expenses first at the expense of domestic money, that is domestic taxes, and after all the necessary controls, we draw European money into our home budget. In this regard, there are delays and the same has happened this year. Despite the Minister of Finance's repeated warnings, the budget users, led by the municipalities, please note that we have been late in preparing claims for reimbursement. Since mid-November, we have regularly informed the Government, including the President of the Government, of the state of claims received. Since then, the situation has improved dramatically. In December, we expect a pumping of between 150 and 180 million euros, which is farthest from now. So, the funds have already been invested, and now we are just drawing back from the European budget. In summary, due to the success of drawing in December, there is no reason for the municipalities to be concerned that the State budget obligations to them would not be settled this month. My colleagues have done their utmost to review and enable us to draw on the vast number of applications that have been submitted this month. For exact information, please, Dr. Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u367	Please, Minister Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u368	Thank you, Mr. President. We are aware of the burning problems that arose at the end of the year. All public financial developments are faced with cuts in funds, as well as municipal ones, where I have to say they are facing larger outflows more. We are working on the Government, in particular the SVR and the Ministry of Finance, to meet the contractual requirements that we have for municipalities, both by means of a law on the financing of municipalities and by European cohesion policy or by prioritising the development of regions. It is precisely because of the importance of this problem that we have joined forces with the Ministry of Finance in solving this problem. I must say, during the flight, in terms of payment, the operation took place in an exemplary manner. The problem arose when, at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, as the managing authority, we decided to extend the deadline of 14 days for the completion of payment requests to help municipalities to put situations or complete projects in time for 2010 and at the same time adopted or published in the Official Journal a Rules on the completion of the budget which set the deadline for taking up the obligation 18. Ten. So we have negotiated all the new commitments with the Ministry of Finance. Of course, some other reason has caused some delays, but I can say that after a successful agreement and implementation of all the processes that were necessary for my co-workers, i.e. the guardians of the contracts to review, confirm or review the supplements, agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the deadline for the submission of orders at the Ministry of Finance is 15 years. 12. The currency to which the Ministry of Finance will direct these funds to the municipalities is 17. 12, so tomorrow and in three days. To avoid future problems, which is also implicit in your question, we are considering amending the law on the financing of municipalities, which must be amended for several reasons. The invitation to tender and the implementation of this call will be moved even further to the beginning of the year as it was this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u369	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u370	Actually, no. I'm pretty happy if that's the case. It's just for time to give the ministers a chance if they want to add anything else. Besides, I'm happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u371	Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add? I don't think so. Thank you very much. Andrej Magajna will ask Mrs Majdi Shirca a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u372	Good evening to all at this late hour! Dear Minister of Culture Majdo Shirca, I ask: Before deciding to sell castles with parcels and parks, were other options examined, which would result in the preservation of cultural monuments in public ownership? I want to know: Did the Ministry of Culture develop or acquire studies on the revitalization of castles and towns, explore price options for basic maintenance works, and explore possible long-term programmes for the activities of these cultural monuments together with local communities?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u374	There are only the analyses you're asking about. There is also reality, there is also practice, there is a fact that under the law on the possession of cultural monuments owned by society 43 local or state monuments of different types, covered by cultural heritage and buildings. There are also analyses already from that law that predicted what with this social property, to the newly acquired, in the fact that it is in a very different state. There is also part of the funds that were intended in the perspective 2007-2013 for the maintenance of cultural monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Over the seven years, almost €14 million was spent on some renovations, such as castles. There is also an analysis that has been made, a study that has not only dealt with concrete or ways, but also dealt with the economy of governance, financing, regulation, the economy of protection, and also ways in which these 43 monuments could be tackled by the state because they are owned by the State. There are options for different ways of broadcasting or hiring, which have also tried to do more or less unsuccessful in practice. There are also ways of intensively searching for tenants, where it turns out that they are not. Because of the very poor construction situation and the very poor conditions in which these castles are, I'm not talking about everyone, the tenants are avoiding them. There are also many promises, especially companies, such as Terme 3000 to Istrabenz, the Academy of Nature Protection, etc., which in those cases, when we called for the possibility of hiring offers, withdrew quite quickly when the crisis arose. There remain good examples of those castles that were made from the earlier study, which was done by the Faculty of Economics or a very engaged group, which advised that the castles should first be restored to the state and only then will they be given a tenant because no one wants to go to the disorderly. Should he first restore them, first arrange them, and then sell them, or in any other way put them on the market, to live with the mission that left the state monuments? It's some good practice. I mention Snow White, which has been extremely well-renewed and also has, at least in comparison with recent years, an enormous visit, for example in 2004, visited Snow White by 12 thousand visitors and visitors, in 2009 – after renewal – almost 30 thousand. There are ways to rent and also practice: from going to local communities, to individual public institutions, including museums, to individual tourist and other forms that are interested in giving these castles content. Some are successful, not all 43 or all those who have not found these interests. It must be said and we must be aware that, from an economic point of view, the castle is not worth buying because you are asking why some were placed as a possibility of reselling. By the way, in 2008, the Government, my predecessor, who drafted this law, amended the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in a way that allowed for sale at all, because he realized that it was not part of the restoration of all these castles, which, of course, the people expected to be flawless and good. Only this law allowed the castle to be given to the best bidder. Below, if you would like to know, because you have not yet received a complete answer to your question, I can also tell you more about these [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? The secretary also asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u376	Yeah, I'll make it up to you. I am not satisfied, but not with the answer itself, which was quite exhausting in this brief moment, but I am not satisfied that cultural monuments are even being sold. We have been somewhat amazed by some Members, as well as by part of the public, that cultural monuments can be sold. And the valuations themselves. The valuations look kind of low, 9.6 million for six castles with parcels. But I do know that for a buyer, buying means an even three times more investment for any reconstruction, so to speak. It's kind of easy for me, too. Let us be glad that someone is even willing to buy these decaying objects. Second, they are not just objects that lie in some peripheral places, to God behind their backs. Some of them aren't in such bad shape. The added question may be in this direction: Why does the state not give these facilities to the municipalities either as a ransom or as a free acquisition? I think that's the only way to keep it public. And I think that should be the first option. However, if the municipality were not interested, there would be these other variants of looking for tenderers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u377	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u378	The municipalities are those who often enter this dialogue. Of course, they also put out an account because they would like to, and they do, and they are counting on not to pay, but to be paid by, say, revitalisation or reconstruction by the state, especially from European funds, where I said that they had cut and cut very little in my previous period. But the congregations here have even more options if this transfer occurs. And the condition for the transfer to take place is this list, with which you also operate, which was needed to be able to speak with these castles, for most of the time we talk about castles, could be anything at all. It's not necessarily just a sell-off. To say that some municipalities have done so, they have also taken over the program, but they expect the payment of the country. It would also be very good for these municipalities, in those regional funds that are not in culture but in European funds, to have a priority. But they don't make decisions. Most decisions are made for other infrastructure solutions and requirements or kindergartens and so on. While culture, though full of words, is usually too full of action. However, I would like to point out that, from an economic point of view, the castle is not worth buying, because taking ownership of the castle also means taking responsibility for its maintenance and possible reconstruction and recovery. All castles owned and managed by the Ministry of Culture are protected as cultural monuments. And you know what that means. It means a special regime of protection, governance and public accessibility. Even if there is a separate redemption, this castle must remain publicly accessible. We have cases where he was a shiny customer, but I'd like to keep him to myself, and he didn't want to keep any more public programs. The capital of the castles is generally carefully avoided. The appearance of a favourable sale offer of castles is a very big trap for entrepreneurs, as is evident also from our arrangements and from studies where maintenance costs are also shown. And if, for example, in Austria, the cost of maintaining some 40,000 euros per year for the renovated township is shown to us, for example, if we give Apple, which is restored, this cost is almost 100,000 euros, or Otočec, which is very well managed by Krka, about 90,000 euros or Snow White, which is managed by the internal museum or the National Museum, is more than 127 thousand euros. It turns out that the castle owners, even though they offer it for free, don't want it at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr Magajna?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u380	I would like to make an initiative or proposal to hold a general debate on this subject and to vote on it. For as long as I have time. Look, there are also examples of good practices. The town of Juzemberk is near Krka. I must say, the mayor has dedicated much of his mandate to this very castle. They rebuilt the roof. This took more than one term, more than that. Today this castle lives. I don't think it'll be restored in 50 years, but it doesn't matter. The city lives. They've restored some spaces, and every year they're playing cod games, if the country has helped with basic revitalising or basic investment, which means maintaining the facility, there's real roofing and other essential maintenance works, which could be a matter of relatively small means to live on, and even if it's never restored, there's a lot of this in the congregation, and there's a lot of it in the country. It's not worth buying, because that's the problem here. That's why the ransom will be so small, I don't buy these ideas that there's already some corruption here, that there are some peasants who can't wait to be really not worth it, they're going to get these fights 10 million. [[...]] How much does the State grant to the municipalities each year? Even if I had given this to the congregations, it might have been a better approach, so I would like to discuss this in the next meeting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u381	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Andrej Magajna to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Ms Majda Širca to his question on the matter of culture, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16 December 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister of Public Administration, Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, will be asked by Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u382	Thank you very much. A few weeks ago, a group of Slovenian intellectuals thought about how to reset Slovenia. I think that restarting the country is not enough to need a replacement of the operating system, otherwise we will only find in the very short operation of this common computer that our hard drive is so depraved that it does not benefit anything. We need a new operating system. I see it on my own in the functioning of the public sector, our offices and we all want this public administration to be lean, modern and effective. On various occasions, the Minister and I have talked about this, and I know that we agree in the basic terms. But I am also asking this question in the light of the fact that public sector reform is one of those reforms that this government intends to implement by the end of this mandate. So let me try to divide this question into three parts. First: How do you imagine that in this country we will provide a lean, modern and efficient public sector that will effectively meet the different social needs of people, communities, economies? How can a certain public sector staff gap be ensured, especially due to the public sector employment moratorium, which will also allow young people in education to gain opportunities in the public sector and, with their work, to dynamize their ideas? For I believe that our public sector has also been largely ostensibly composed by a number of bright exceptions to a number of officials who are no longer motivated or satisfied by their work. How can these circumstances ensure positive selection within the public sector in order to ensure that good workers and officials are rewarded and, of course, punished, whether with lower wages or even loss of employment, those officials who show poor results, lack of interest in work and greater professional failures? Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u384	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member, the ambition to answer the three very difficult sets of questions you have asked in these few minutes will not allow me to give you a satisfactory answer. The fundamental issue is the weak, modern public sector. The public sector, as we call it in the broadest sense, consists, in grave terms, of a quarter of the office, of a uniformed and uniformed part. With regard to employment, the Public Servants Act, adopted at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, is a modern, open, transparent, which should allow for all this expertise, equal access to public sector services, career advancement and so on. For the other 120,000, if you want, or three quarters of the Labour Relations Act. These are all service activities carried out in public institutions. Modernisation of this system regime with a view to greater autonomy and responsibilities, with a view to greater efficiency, will be achieved through new adaptations to these persons of public law. But the Labour Relations Act treats them equally, including young students, to enter this system and prove themselves. We have also done an analysis of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which is one place with an ambition of transparency, and also pursued the objectives that the best are well paid, that those who do not achieve the expected results of work, that is, this negative selection, are less rewarded and so on. In this analysis, two groups showed that when this pay system was in place, the element of progress that was to stimulate the most excellent was five groups. The most excellent results are expected to be excellent. As a result of subjectively uncritical assessments, far from the intent of the law, the chairpersons rated them as excellent 80 % of the employees. This is precisely the goal of making the best progress faster, reaching a faster salary, getting the money from work performance, getting it to a point where there are no more differences – and there is dissatisfaction – between those employees who work hard and those who wait for the end of work every day. The mechanisms that are today are supposed to serve these objectives, but they are not used as they are written. We are coordinating the issue of progress and more resources for the variable part of wages as solutions with the public sector unions. This coordination is a kind of vanity, an obligation for the social partners to try to find better solutions, because they have also found that these elements have not achieved the objective clearly enshrined in the law. First of all, I think we need to invest in management. This is the second point where we have found that the abolition of compulsory examinations, general and specific parts – modular – in terms of training an individual entering the public sector was a mistake in the previous mandate. With the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, we will introduce not only this exam, but even in the trial age, as a condition that those who have been known as the young educator who enters this system must prove that all the skills required by these important jobs must also be achieved. Thus, some of these amendments to the Law on Public Servants, the Labour Relations Act and the Public Sector Wages Act 2011 will surely follow and we will also have a serious debate with Members, as all these changes will likely also lead to problems in adopting these solutions [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Marijan Križman will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question relates mainly to the property of members of the Agrarian community, which has become part of the highway, and to this day there are still some unresolved and unanswered questions. In the case of the Administrative Unit Celje, the renewed procedure for returning the immovable property of members of the Agrarian Community of Arms, which was legally terminated by the decision of the Koper Administrative Unit, this number and that number, 8. Seven. 2002. In the context of the procedure, a re-decision will be taken on the application of the members concerning the return of the held property. The fact is that today, in nature, the section of A1 motorways is located also on parcels owned by former members of the Agrarian community. I wouldn't count these plots, but there's 115. And then there are parcels, which are 35, and they were also at the time of takeover in the process of returning the Agrarian community. When Dars d. d. performed construction work on parcels that were in the process of returning, there was an unjustified acquisition of property. Despite the lack of respect for property rights as a human right protected by Article 67 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the agrarian community of Arms are prepared to reach an agreement in the form of a mutual settlement with which all matters are settled. The proposal is to address the following issues in particular in the settlement: changes in the application for the renewal of the property of the members of the agrarian community, taking into account the new partial situation; partial withdrawal of applications for the renewal of the property to members of the agrarian community, in respect of parcels on the motorway route; and payment of compensation together with interest. In order not to make it all black, Dars, when the highway was built here, actually paid quite a nice number of plots of €55 million, but in this process they also forgot about the seven plots that remained outside of these contracts, and it is also necessary to conclude contracts for these plots and to settle the compensation somehow. Mr Minister, the story is old and it dates back to 2002, so it seems very important to hurry with this and give these citizens an answer on how to proceed in order to protect their property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u388	Thank you, President. Dear Member! I can only answer in principle, because the first question was more in principle and I will find it difficult to answer all these new data, which has now been asked. Where the land is entered in an agricultural book or is normally entered into by individual members of the agrarian community, contracts shall be concluded with individual members for their co-ownership share. And then, even under these contracts, compensation is paid for this share. However, in the case of the purchase of property for the purposes of the motorway section, when the agrarian community is not yet established, for example, the process of returning property to the agrarian community is ongoing, for the purposes of obtaining a building permit in application of the provisions of Article 13 of the Law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. This provided that a historical land register is also considered as proof of the right to build in addition to evidence in the building law that the property is registered to an agrarian community, or a certificate by the competent authority that the recovery procedures for the property are not completed under the law on the re-establishment of an agrarian community. Following the completion of the property recovery procedure, contracts were concluded with individual members who had received the property returned and in many cases, prior to the conclusion of the contract for individual co-ownership shares, it was necessary to wait or wait for the court to carry out the succession proceedings, as a number of beneficiaries had already died before the end of the return process. The 54th Article of the new Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into the Space, which has repealed the above-mentioned Article 13 of the Law on the Regulation of Certain Issues concerning the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, now makes sense the same provision. It is therefore a matter of long-term procedures, especially in cases where, at the time of purchases, an agrarian community has not yet been established and compensation to beneficiaries or their heirs is paid only after several years due to the procedures described above. For a more precise answer to this question, however, he and his colleagues should provide more accurate information.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree that you don't have all the data and that you can't know everything, I understand that. It is particularly clear to me that the Law on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities is a complex matter which was completely missed when it was adopted here in Parliament in 1995. Me and some colleagues are trying to change this law and that it would be a legal person, not a natural person, because it happens that they have descendants in America and I don't know which country around the world, and it is clear that it is very difficult to reach this conclusion. But, Mr. Minister, since it is not likely that this is the only legal property issue that arises when building a road, highway or something else, I would like to ask you an additional question: In what way do you intend to conclude this story as soon as possible? Are you prepared with the representatives of these people who own this agrarian community to meet and start clearing up this story because I am sure that we cannot solve this with one question from a Member State? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u392	Thus, it is not at first sight a law belonging to the Ministry of Transport. It belongs either to the Ministry of the Environment and Space or, possibly, to administrative procedures or to any other ministry. So it's hard for me, actually, to only write to these ministers and propose a solution. However, as far as the highway is concerned, I am, of course, ready to talk to these people, but it is true that under the new law on the management of investments in our competence, we are no longer directly imposing any obligations or tasks or any economic activity that is, in any case, ours, we are simply writing sectoral policy. I can write in sectoral policy that they have to resolve these things, while they are actually solving for the new thing of the agency. So if I were to take these people in and then load up something for Dars, I'd actually overstep my powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Darji Radic, Minister of Economy, will put the question to Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u394	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all those who insist, to the minister and to the ministers! In connection with the construction of block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, a lot of ink has been shed recently, a lot has been discovered and perhaps a person feels as if some more serious analysis and more serious approaches have just taken place. One of the starting points would certainly have been published by economist Damjane, who has been comparing developments recently in the German energy market in particular, when the restoration of existing coal thermal power plants also achieve up to 30% improvement in the efficiency of the power plant. And such a procedure could also be carried out on existing block 4 and 5 with us. The indicative price is somewhere between €120 million and €200 million, as the auxiliary gas turbines are already installed and only need to be restored. Of course, the financial structure of a billion two hundred that we have now come to and is growing as a qualitative test, because some things have not yet been taken into account, suggests that, as it were said, we will invest in ten years and threaten the rest of the projects. In particular, projects that fall within the green energy framework, i.e. those for which expensive energy should not be purchased. this is emission vouchers and thus to instill the final product of electricity. As a result, power plants in the lower and middle Sava and, of course, pump power plants, which, inter alia, have the task of covering the conical needs for electricity, are at risk. It comes on a day-to-day basis with regard to stocks of rest which are not as large as they should have been, but even if they are, it is less favourable to coal energy. We remember from childhood, the sun is the most expensive lignit, but this is for the stove for the bread crumb, but for the energy block it certainly isn't. The last calorie and other analyses are from 2007 and already it appears to be necessary to jump to help with Indonesian coal, with all logistics, and from Luke Koper to the translation station. The Indonesian coal car will be used quickly, so logistically this will be a very fast-occupied track. And then the comparable price, for an installed megawatt, is the world price of a million euros, with us here [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u395	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u396	Thank you very much, President. I don't think Mr. Ziherl was able to even ask the right question in the end, but I'm going to take what I have written here as a starting point. The fact is, we all know and realize that Block 6 is an investment that has certainly not been properly managed. We know that the investment decision took place in 2006, and we are now in 2010. In fact, the last six months, which I am Minister, I have been working intensively on this project and I am trying to achieve one optimisation on this project, which is difficult to achieve today in view of the situation. Any action in such a direction in previous years would certainly have greater effects. However, you know that in June the Government already requested detailed information from the management of the Italian Power Plant, the Slovenian Power Plant and the Supervisory Council on the state of the project itself and on all the main factors determining the investment, both the financial structure and the dynamics themselves, the stocks, etc., on the basis of which the Government could have made a decision on this in the summer. As you know and probably have been following in the media, unfortunately the Government has not received adequate answers from the supervisory board of the HSI after many failed attempts since then, and we have decided to replace the controlling board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. Today we also have a new director in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, we also have a new director at the Termoelectrica Šostjanj and a new management at this point in the project's revision, trying to optimize the project. It is precisely because of these discussions, which occur in the public and in all these debates, which we are following in the newspapers, that there may be other variants or renewals of Block 4 and 5, or even the construction of a smaller Block 6 of approximately 300, 350 megawatts, because there are still questions as to whether these stocks of coal are sufficient or whether the fuel value of this coal is sufficient or optimal, that I finally decided to impose on the Supervisory Board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants that, in addition to the study on the stocks of the huge lignite, we should order from a foreign expert of the professional institutions, not because we do not want anyone to see that our Slovenian expert is politically coloured or a member, that we have decided that we will look for foreign experts in this area. And this study is already preparing for stocks. In addition, I have also ordered the preparation of these studies, says the reconstruction of Block 4 and 5 and the construction of a possible block of lower value, with foreign experts, because I cannot agree simply on these studies and opinions that appear in newspapers. Why did I decide to do that? Mostly for one reason. I doubt, however, that these studies will contribute significantly to a change in the investment decision at the same time as the costs already incurred on Block 6. Or maybe. I don't know. The calculations will have to show what the final calculation will be in view of the already incurred costs in the block's investment itself. But I ordered these calculations for one very reason, because, as you know, we are preparing a national energy programme and Block 6 must be included in the national energy programme. Before I get these studies, until independent experts say and present all these studies, I have decided not to put the national energy programme in public. This is too important a project, as you yourself have said, which can have an important impact on all the further development of energy, on all other investments in energy, so I think this decision is the right and most rational at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ziherl? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u398	Certainly, we are all aware of the importance of Block 6 for our energy situation. I think he's supplying Slovenia with more than a third of electricity. Something has to be done. That's definitely it. However, it is irrelevant that we are talking about the threat of mining, for some mention of 3,000,500 miners is said to be only a thousand, 300 active workers, and 500 of them will be retired in a short time. But I'm interested in other things. I have tracked two comparable thermal power plants, one in Bosnia, the other in Germany, to invest 2 000 100 megawatts in Germany 2.2 billion euros. That's a million on an engineered power of one megawatt. Although in Bosnia the Chinese contractor is slightly more expensive, it still reaches two or more. In addition, I have seen here that the European Union is preparing 200 billion euros for the renovation of energy infrastructure. Can we get into this scheme if it's something out of date? How much is the price building of almost house company, Alston, which seems to be entering Slovenian railways? Is it just by chance that the additional coal, the Indonesian coal, is likely to be coming from the railways? All of this suggests that our energy will ultimately be very expensive and far from what they have done in Cancún, far from comparable German standards, when the share of green renewable energy is much higher.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u399	Would you like a word, although there was no specific additional question? About the financial structure, if you want to say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u400	Thank you very much. That is exactly what I was going to say right now, and I would like to clarify this question too, so all the activities I am currently carrying out in cooperation with the new leadership are intended for this very purpose. Believe me, when we get these studies, we will look at which variant is most optimal to continue this path. As far as technology is concerned, I have to say, and I can assure you that this technological equipment is, however, modern. It's not about old technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u401	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u402	Absolutely. Given that this is an extremely important topic, an introduction to the consideration of the national energy programme, I would certainly suggest in the National Assembly that we vote on Thursday to discuss the response, because time is twice as low as three minutes for such a broad topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u403	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Zicherl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economy Darje Radic to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 16. 12. 2010, in the context of the votes. Ivan Grill will ask the Transport Minister Dr. Patrick Vlačič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u404	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary and Minister! Thank God, we can say that in Slovenia the construction of highway links or cross is somehow completed. Despite the fact that this investment is somehow concluded, it is known that there are still many open cases involving damage to parallel or local roads where heavy freight traffic took place at the time of construction. Heavy trucks carrying construction materials left consequences behind in destroyed roads. I am aware that I myself have a concrete case that prior to the construction of a number of local communities have concluded agreements with the ministry or Dars, or investors, and today there are still many unrealised agreements or road damage that are not remedied. That's why I want to know: Do you have any information on how many such unrealised, open-ended cases are in the Slovenian space at this time? Where are the reasons for this? When can local communities expect this to happen? In particular, I am interested in this question because it is the municipality of Škocjan, where such an agreement was signed in 2006, that it is specifically about co-financing on the basis of compensation with Dars for the construction of a circular, some connecting road, and a number of agreements have been signed since 2006 and there have been many meetings, and today it is still not clear when this matter should be completed. That is why, in connection with this project, I am also generally interested in: Do you have this information or how these things are going forward? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u405	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u406	Thank you very much. Sanitation of local roads is the responsibility of the contractor who built a certain highway section. According to my data, contracts are signed between contractors and local communities. Therefore, it has been relatively difficult to answer this question in more detail in this short time since we are not the bearer of these contracts. According to my data, what I can now say is that there was no contract in two local communities, that's in Beltinci and Radenci. Otherwise, it would take a little more time to obtain more detailed information, as well as for reasons why it has not yet been realized. I have to admit that the time dimension here was such that we couldn't get all the data. So I will be happy to write for this further now, what you have asked me, and then we can prepare a more detailed answer, what is going on, why not, and when will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u407	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u408	Thank you very much. I believe that this information is a little bit more difficult to reach and that the timing has certainly limited you here. But I will, Mr. Secretary, be happy if you will be able to provide me with these answers in writing. I will also give you a concrete example in more detail in writing. It is specifically, as I said, for the Municipality of Škocjan in Dolenjska, where this agreement was signed in 2006 between the Ministry of Transport, Dars, DRSC and the local community, and then these meetings and interviews were held both between the DRSC and Dars. This will probably make this information a little easier for you. However, as I said, I will also request further clarification in writing that this open matter is resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs a question. Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u410	Thank you very much. The coincidence probably wanted us to be last, even though we didn't talk about the questions sent yesterday, but it was a coincidence. Madam Minister, I believe that in the last ten years, all of us users of the services of administrative units have been able to see outstanding progress, especially in terms of the quality of the services of administrative units. We can feel it on our own virtually every day. And not only administrative units, it is also a broader government, where the quality of services has increased dramatically. That's probably why, I think in 2009, you got that UN confession or whatever it was, some recognition was, I know that. However, what bothered me and what was the content of my question was a Saturday job. The previous government introduced Saturday's official hours for administrative units in 2007. At least in the beginning, the visit was jealous, but what is somehow in sight, at least somehow, comes from reporting certain media, is that you intend to stop it. I would still ask you for information for 2007, 2008 and 2009 and this year and what this visit is like on Saturdays in administrative units. If you're really predicting the abolition of this, in my opinion, good practice, I'd like to hear the reasons for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u412	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Gorenak, I share my opinion with you, the quality of the services of administrative units is growing for several reasons, and especially because of the efforts of the people working there. In fact, in 2009 and 2010, in the official part of the public administration, we have also simply faced urgent austerity measures in all areas. During this period, the number of employees in administrative units has decreased, but the volume of work has not decreased, and we have also done what we have done, including in ministries. The question of the rationality of our organisation, the way we work and so on has also been subject to a vigilant, careful, professional judgement as to whether an individual service, as well as the way we perform it, is still appropriate. In 2007, official hours were introduced once a month not only in administrative units, but also in other state authorities at the first stage; in the end, they were all so far lost and closed at Saturdays due to a smaller visit to Dursa's exhibition, tax administration, last in 2009, because the visits they had closely monitored since 2007 were not such as to justify the opening, of course that day must be paid, heated and so on, and these are costs. We have been scrutinising since 2007, chiefs of administrative units and the Ministry of Public Administration as coordinator, the number of visits, i.e. citizens looking for services in administrative units, the number of employees on Saturdays. On your question, I would like to provide you with information on the number of customers on Saturdays. In 2007, I will round, about 32 thousand customers, in 2008 26 thousand, in 2009 19 thousand 500, in 2010 14 thousand 500. So 55% less. And then I'll tell you the reasons, which were also carefully recorded. On Saturdays, the number of employees in administrative units decreased in proportion to the decrease in the number of clients, in 2007 they worked 6 thousand, in 2008 6 thousand 600, 2009 3 thousand 900 and in 2010 2 thousand 400 employees in administrative units. If 26% of all employees in administrative units were employed on Saturdays in 2007, they were only 8% in 2010, as they focused only on the tasks people were looking for. However, the costs of working on these Saturdays in 2010 were slightly less than €200,000 per year. The chiefs of the administrative units that maintained these records and the unions of administrative units had already pointed to an increasingly irrational investment in this Saturday since they were also accompanied by customers who visited them on Saturdays. They found that they were pensioners in an important part. It was also found that, due to the abolition of local jurisdiction, students and others were able to provide the services they were looking for in all administrative units where they were currently located. The rest of the government's offices, this day not only worked as an official, but also as a bank and an insurance company, which has really reduced the importance of the work of administrative units. The cost has become great. However, I would like to point out that the regulation in force as we have amended it and, with January, to work regularly on Saturday, we have replaced it with a provision that, given the increased workload, it is in the domain of the individual Head of the Administrative Unit to decide the work on Saturday and to change the official hours. So it's not a pure termination, but it's left to this judgment that Saturday is also working, maybe every month on Saturday, but depending on the workload of the administrative units. Both in terms of savings [[...]] [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u414	Not if the secretary wants to say anything else because I think she's running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u415	Thank you very much. The secretary must have something to say. Minister, please. Please put the microphone on. Now it will be. Yeah, it's gonna take a minute to wait. It's gonna take a minute. It usually doesn't happen that someone talks sooner than one minute from turning off the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u416	Thank you very much. In fact, for another year we took the time to monitor the rationality of our work. And the solution, which is now proposed for the chiefs of the administrative unit to be activated on Saturdays, which is now left to them, is that more Saturdays per month, which I think is the only solution. The flexibility of the official hours of administrative units is also very much left here, to say the culture and customs of certain areas where administrative units work together with local offices. Some are more early areas and are starting early, of course they continue in urban areas in the afternoon, even until the sixth and seventh hours. I think it's right that this autonomy is given to management to decide for itself. And by amending the regulation in this part, we have turned the mandatory work of administrative units every last Saturday of the month into an opportunity to work even on Saturdays, as assessed by the Chief of Administration. Just for the intermezza. One of the trade unions' professional demands, which, from the end of 2008 and 2009, addressed the request and applied themselves to find savings in this part, which, through the disclosures of public officials represented in the social dialogue, has been assessed as less rational by the State if they maintain the obligation to be there, to wait all morning for customers who are not there, thereby launching all the apparatus and costs, material etc. And you yourself have seen that 55% reduction also because of other benefits actually excuses changing "obligatory" to "as necessary". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u417	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 16 December 2010, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. Good night!
