ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's follow-up session cannot be attended by the following Members: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, Vasja Klavora, Miro Petek, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, mag. Branko Grims, Guido Kres, Marjan Bezjak, Milenko Ziherl and Joseph Jerovšek. I welcome all of you here. We're moving to 18. Agenda item — Re-decision on the law on the participation of profit workers. At its 19th extraordinary meeting on 26 May 2010, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to the promulgation of the Act on the participation of workers in profits, decide again. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Borut Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! For members of the National Council, there is always something special if we get a chance to speak in the National Assembly, even if it is only five minutes. Unfortunately, we are state councilors usually in this Chamber when we explain the reasons for adopting the requirement for re-decision on the law, and some of you may also view us as a nuisance, but I must say that we are not; believe that our decisions are also thoroughly weighed. Today you will vote again on the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. Together, we have the opportunity to reconsider whether the law, as it was adopted, is really what we need, which will contribute to greater motivation for work, to greater competitiveness of our economy and, consequently, will contribute to the economic growth that we need very much. No, surely the law of compulsory participation of workers in profits will not contribute to a better position of the economy. That's what I hope to say with all my responsibility. Those who say otherwise will also have to face data. Slovenia is already among the countries where wages have grown the most in recent years; this is also said by Eurostat data, although this does not mean that wages are high or too high. Slovenia records the decline of economic activity, these are the data of Umarja. On the competitiveness scale, of course, there can be debates about it, but we have fallen for more than 20 cities and by implementing this law we will be even less interesting for the locals, and especially for foreign investors. But the worst part is that the law exudes a lack of trust in employers, owners. Suddenly, Slovenian employers and entrepreneurs are to blame for everything, as if we are not to deal with the global crisis, and this has indeed fueled greed and, above all, greedy financial capital. These Slovenian owners are suddenly unable to motivate their workers, so they must legally share the profits with employees, because they would not otherwise do so. However, no one is telling the truth that the legal arrangements for the sharing of profits have been meaningless, but above all, unstimulating, because they were non-stimulating from a tax point of view and that entrepreneur who, after the arrangements so far, shared profits, should say that he did very unwisely not use any worse word. While the solutions brought by the law are attractive for the daily political needs, the result is that there will not be a structurally more significant division of profits in the future, even the profits will be less, and above all our business environment, once again, will be much less interesting for investors. And something else about motivation: what is required by law is certainly not motivational. In this case, it is only an additional social adjustment; it is an additional taxation of profits. These are the facts. I do not have time to present all the arguments that we have put forward when addressed in the State Council from disproportionateity, contrary to the principle of volunteering, inequality and could still be listed. It is surprising, however, that in times of crisis, we are still talking only about divisiveness, but not about how to create the conditions that we can share at all. At the end of the day, I'd like to point out the inconsistencies. The National Assembly dealt with the law on an emergency basis, although conditions were not given. Worse still, the law, as prepared by the Government, has been supported by all social partners and what we have before us today is something completely different. The amended law should have received at least the minimum consensus of the Economic and Social Council. I ask, do we no longer need social dialogue within the Economic and Social Council? It is also surprising that the Government of the Law, as it was adopted, does not support it. Your Honor, I really ask you to reconsider, and I hope that we will be given the opportunity to discuss again the law that will follow the fundamental idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I don't think applause is necessary in this position, but... At its 14th urgent meeting, on 8 June 2010, the Committee of the Economy considered the proposal of the Council of State to re-decision on the Law on the participation of workers in profits submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adopted by the National Assembly at its 17th session 2010. Meetings of the Committee were attended, as usual, by representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of the Economy, the Legal and Legislative Services, the Chamber of Commerce, the Union of Free Trade Unions, the Association of Workers' Councils, as well as representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Government, which proposed to the National Assembly that it should not confirm the law in the matter of re-decision; the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, inter alia, considers that the statutory determination of the compulsory participation of workers in profit is not constitutionally contested; and the content of the Council of Workers in Slovenia, which assesses that the veto is entirely unfounded; therefore, it proposed to the Committee on the Economy to re- back up the law, to propose to the National Assembly that it vote once again with the required majority. The meeting was held in an introduction by the rapporteur of the Council of State, Mr Meh, making a request for re-decision on the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit quite detailed, stressing that the adoption of the law is a solution that is potentially desirable and is extremely dangerous for the Slovenian economy. The bill introduced by the Government in the legislative procedure was positively adopted and supported by all parties, and the law is a completely different one, as it essentially changes the fundamental concept of employee participation in profits, with no longer the employer's tool to motivate employees, but represents a social correction or possibly even an additional taxation of profits. In view of this, the National Council believes that it needs to be decided again. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government then presented their opinions very briefly. In the debate and in the context of the explanation of the vote to the Committee's proposal, the majority of the members of the Committee supported the adoption of the law and rejected the State Council's arguments, as they were old and already rejected. However, it was again pointed out that, on the basis of the data, it is possible to establish that the applicable law on the participation of workers in profits does not produce results and therefore a more radical change is needed. The principle of volunteering obviously does not work, so it is necessary to reaffirm the obligation to participate in profits, as only in this way will workers be able to participate in the profits they have also generated. With this, workers will be more motivated to do good work, and we will also admit to them that they are not only a cost of work from the company's point of view. They considered the time for tectonic movements to be a reflection on the function of capital and work in Slovenia, with Slovenia becoming a new example for countries wishing to have a socially connected economy and a socially connected society. They also stressed that a compromise solution was adopted in Article 3, which does not entail a complete obligation to share the profits of workers, since this obligation arises only if the company assembly decides to share more than 25 % of the profit on the balance sheet. Thus, owners still have the option of free decision-making that they will not share profits and rather invest in development or share less than 25% of the profit on the balance sheet. With regard to the findings of the State Council's request that the adoption of the law threaten the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, the opinion was expressed that competition cannot be compromised by this law and must certainly be improved by other measures. There was also agreement on the State Council's arguments, which in fact did not show support for the law in re-decision, particularly because of its negative impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. However, a broader debate on the State Council's request did not develop in the course of the meeting, as most of the Committee's members identified adopted a procedural proposal to close the debate and move to a vote on the draft opinion. It was pointed out that the debate merely repeats the already well-known arguments from the previous discussions at the Committee and the National Assembly and thus only deepens the differences between opponents and advocates of the adopted law. The Committee then adopted, by a majority of the votes of all members, 8 to 5 against, that the Law on the participation of workers in profits was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Darji Radic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Dear Members! On the basis of the request of the Council of State, the Government has re-examined the draft law and, on this basis, has also adopted an opinion that it is not appropriate to adopt a law on compulsory participation of workers in profits and therefore proposes that the National Assembly should not confirm this law at the time of its re-examination. We have found, and we have repeatedly pointed out that the introduction of compulsory participation of workers in profit has a number of negative effects on the Slovenian economy. First of all, let me mention that it will have a negative impact on the flow of foreign direct investment and that, practically, by such a measure, we will destroy all other measures taken by the Government in order to promote foreign direct investment. The government is giving financial incentives, promoting Slovenia as a country favourable to foreign direct investment by introducing this hidden tax, of course all these efforts are being eliminated. The second fact is that the introduction of compulsory profit-sharing will result in the escape of capital from Slovenia, and the relocation of Slovenian companies to other countries will take place. Dear Members and Members! We must be aware that we are living in a global world, that Slovenia is a Member State of the European Union. Slovenia is not a closed economy. Slovenia and Slovenian companies compete on the market with Chinese companies with no social component. Slovenian companies compete with companies in other countries of the European Union, which, with the exception of France, does not have the compulsory participation of workers in profit to a very limited extent. Other European Union countries use the participation of profit workers on a voluntary basis as one of the possible motivational elements for enhancing the performance of businesses. These facts need to be taken into account. Believe me, we have no mechanism and there is no obstacle that our companies would not move very close, across the border, just a few kilometres and there established their companies, other companies or their profits that will be created in Slovenia, across transfer zones drove to other countries. In short, the negative effects of this law are enormous. As I have already said, all other countries of the European Union take into account voluntary participation in profits as one of the motivations for enhancing the performance of businesses. The ambition of the government proposal of this law was also to encourage Slovenian companies to introduce this motivator, according to which the participation of workers in profits could increase the performance of businesses, but on a voluntary basis. Only in this way can we say that this law will have an encouraging effect on businesses. By introducing compulsory profit-sharing, of course, this represents nothing more for Slovenian companies than a new obligation that further weakens their business conditions in Slovenia and thus makes their competitive position worse, I repeat, on the global market. Accordingly, I would like to point out once again: The Government has taken the view that the law is not appropriate and is therefore proposing to the National Assembly not to approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we did not have a system law to regulate the participation of workers in profits until 2008. By adopting the law, the participation of workers in profits was possible, but it was not taxed or otherwise encouraged and up to 20. 4. In 2010, only 24 companies were entered into the register of contracts managed by the Ministry of the Economy. As a result, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a new law that will try to ensure greater response. Let me start by saying that we will vote on our conscience in the Group of Members this time, but on this occasion, let me say two things: working as one of the two key factors of production in the company unquestionably contributes to the creation of the company's added value. If workers can contribute to the existence of businesses in times of economic crisis by giving up their jobs, it could be fair that they are also properly rewarded in good times and in a successful business. Workers and workers should share the fate of businesses when there are bad times in companies, and of course even when these times are good. Not long ago we had the good times, the times of fat cows, as many of you say and emphasize. The workers didn't have any of it back then. Moreover, in Slovenia we had protests about wages. These fat cows were swallowed up in the middle, and the workers went on the road with them, I'm afraid. Let me also briefly respond to many, I believe, of the manipulation of the law that has been present lately. Let me stress that the envisaged participation of workers in profits is limited to the amount of its two average monthly wages or to a maximum of EUR 5,000 gross. I will repeat this once again: that the intended participation of workers in profits is limited to the amount of its two average monthly wages or a maximum of EUR 5,000 gross if, of course, the average wage exceeds that amount. Thus, the different interpretations of how 10,000 euros will have to be shared among employees in companies with one or two employees are not. Allegations that this will distort the investment of companies that are supposed to share money instead of investment among workers are not, in my opinion, true, because the money is earmarked for this purpose earlier. In the company's net profit, however, there remains only profit intended to be shared among shareholders. It is true, however, that some investors, but mostly for a quarter, would extend the time in which owners expect their stake to be paid. However, this fear does not apply to newly established branches either. It applies only to newly established independent companies. As it is said, in the Group of Members, we will make decisions based on the above-mentioned facts in our own conscience. But I can tell you that we will support the majority law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u10	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the law on the participation of workers in profits. In the DeSUS Group, we closely monitor the various ideas, initiatives and proposals for regulating the area of employee participation in profits. This topic is practically covered not only in our mandate but also in previous mandates. Our general assessment of all draft proposals is that, in fact, everyone is trying to regulate this area. The individual solutions themselves are almost in the same direction so as to detect the principled support of all participants and of both political options. Despite this seeming harmony, the opinion of both participants, workers and employers, as well as the governments and Members themselves, differs only in one point, which is considered essential by all. It is a fundamental definition of the participation of workers in profits, either on the basis of a voluntary or compulsory provision. Our Group of Members has carefully examined both options, both of which are those that advocate the mandatory one and those that advocate voluntarily. Despite the fact that our Group's mission, as well as DeSUS's parties, is based on the principles of solidarity, reciprocity and social justice, and despite the fact that we would like to say yes to a proposal based on an unlimited obligation, we simply cannot do so because we are bound by the Constitution and its provisions. It is essentially the protection of property rights as such, so this obligation would not follow the constitutional mother and would certainly find its way to the Constitutional Court. However, since the determination of just volunteering without incentives or poor incentives for the introduction of financial participation of workers certainly does not constitute the basis on which employers would opt for one of the forms of profit participation schemes, we have co-signed an amendment from DeSUS that practically represents a restriction on volunteering or, rather, a compromise between mandatory and optional option. Such a form of financial participation of workers, based on volunteerism, is sufficient for the constitutional principles, the recommendation of the European Union and the practice of other Member States of the European Union, but the latter is limited in terms of having 25% of the profits to be shared among employees, which we consider to be constitutionally indisputable. We are also attached to the Legislative and Legal Service here, so we hope that this compromise option, which has already been confirmed several times in this Chamber, will also be voted today with a sufficient number of votes. We must stress that such a compromise option represents a social correction that is constitutionally permissible, which favours workers as a socially weaker layer. In spite of the principle of voluntary participation in the law governing the participation of workers in profits, social corrections are also introduced, which is now more than necessary, which is constitutionally permissible and does not constitute a disproportionate interference with corporate property rights. These are the elements that led us to co-sign an amendment that allows mandatory and optional division, so in this sense we will also support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In Slovenia, a law had already been passed in 2008 which allowed profit to be shared on a voluntary basis. The result of this law was that 24 companies gave this profit to 0.29% of workers. Others, we have heard, but they have made it possible to share the fate of the company. That's what we've all heard, isn't it? The workers shared the fate of the company that went to the francs and the workers to the road. Why did the government propose a new law? I received the answer: because we would give even more tax relief, simplify procedures and cancel the postponement of payments, by emergency procedure, without social dialogue. For the Slovenian National Party and for me, this is a very unserious approach, but we have said, if that is the case, so be it. And let it be, as we have said, as we have supported and will also be, the division of profits is mandatory. You can tell me about France, just one exception, a unique one, all the thousands and a million reasons that experts are writing in newspapers today, and the last few days, but I have so much economic knowledge that none of the doctors, professors and masters will prove to me that the worker is a cost. The worker was only a cost of rotten capitalism, i.e. initial capitalism, when receiving wages from capitalists. A worker is not a cost. The claim "to the owners of the capital belongs to profit, is a reward for the risk taken by the equity owner by investing," holds in those cases where the owner buys securities and gambles with them on the stock exchange. Then all his gain is his; then is his risk, and all his loss. However, when the capital owner invests in something, without a worker, nothing can be done, as can a worker without capital. The worker creates a new value – and this theory holds true. By creating a new value, it contributes to profit, it creates profit, it creates it! And if a worker makes a profit, he has an absolute right to make that profit. Just as he has the right to work on profits, he certainly has the right to own capital. And that's a fact. The law on volunteering, therefore, is, or should not, very similar to utopian principles. Jean-Baptiste Robespierre once said, "Let everyone do what they want." So let the capitalists give or don't give profits to the workers they make you. We're talking about a worker being rewarded for his job with a salary. That's not true. A worker gets a wage today. He doesn't pay. Pay is not worthy, as it says, according to the constitution, of any kind, it is not worthy of the part that honest workers who create new value receive. And it never pays, and nowhere — or in rare cases — does it not show that the contribution of the new value created by the worker is also in this wage. In very rare cases! The salary is 500 euros – here you go and run. Tomorrow he made a thousand pieces, and the next day he made 2,000 pieces, and the next month he made 5,000 pieces. For the same 500 euros of all five thousand pieces. Which was more money, but he cashed the capitalist in his pocket. That's it, that's how it is today. Of those 5,000 pieces, the worker has an absolute right to profit. In the Slovenian National Party, if the Government wants such a law, we will support such a law. And one more thing, talk about there being no foreign investors! Where are they today? There aren't any! They've been gone for four years! Even domestic investors and owners – go see: Bosnia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Slovenian companies themselves for three, four years, and there was no law on compulsory profit sharing, and everyone fell and went there. Don't tell me they're gonna leave because of this marriage! These are fictions, but more fiction on the other hand, which oppose the law on compulsory profit sharing. As far as the workers are concerned, it's not a cost. Somebody tell me it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Greetings also to the representatives of the ministries, with the secretary at the head and Mr Meh, the representative of the Council of State! Today, when I was driving to work, I heard them say that politics on this issue was divided. I must say that this is not true, we all have the same desire, the same goal that companies are good enough, the environment is stimulating, and workers are well rewarded. Only the path we see there is clearly different. As we have pointed out several times so far, in the Liberal Democracy we advocate that the company be used to the greatest extent possible with the profit-sharing instrument. The current legislation does not create the most encouraging conditions that would lead businesses to the service of this profit sharing. Only information is sufficient to say that only 0,29 % of all employees have participated in the share of profits so far, and only 0.18 per cent of all profits have been distributed among them. In LDS, we have studied with great affection the law drawn up by the Minister for the Economy, which has been mediated and confirmed by the Government in the parliamentary procedure. This law, in its original form, has made a number of improvements that would allow for the sharing of the profits of employees in a larger number: from greater tax reliefs, both for employees and for businesses, until the suspension of the suspension of the payment of profits and could also be listed. The amended bill, which we will be re-deciding today, also legalizes the element of compulsory profit sharing and, in our opinion, the opinion of the professional public, including some unions, and in view of the international practice of moving away from the desired optimum profit sharing as it opens up a new dangerous area of creative accounting, stagnation of wages and interference with the already acquired rights of employees. The Council of State, which called for today's re-decision on the law, also believes that the mandatory law-sharing of profits in the absence of the Council of Europe's recommendations constitutes a unique one in the European Union. Such legislation, according to the Council of State, also constitutes an essential reservation to the entry of foreign companies and investors into Slovenia, which already, taking account of the business environment, do not wait in line. This fact is even more worrying in the light of the fall of Slovenia on international competitiveness scales, and we attach all of this to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. On the other hand, in the LDS, according to Slovenian practice, we ask ourselves - who will share the profits in these acute economic conditions? What will companies share in view of the crisis? What do the proponents say about the proposed solutions to the already publicly-exposed aspirations of owners after moving companies abroad or to establish new companies or to transfer profits in other ways abroad? In the light of these consequences, we believe that the responsibility for any such negative consequences and the consequent failure to pay the profits must be borne by the applicants. Although compulsory division can be heard well and is public - minded, it is not beneficial, especially for those who are supposed to be — employees. As has already been said, in the LDS, we are committed to sharing profits as much as possible, but we must do so in the optimal way proposed by the profession and discussed by the good practices of many European countries. The sharing of profits must be encouraged by appropriate tax incentives and must be aimed at motivating and rewarding employees and not solving the problems of low wages, although we are well aware of this Slovenian problem in the LDS and attach it to it, because the problems need to be resolved in the short term by means of social adjustments and, in the medium and long term, by increasing the competitiveness of companies that will allow higher wages to be paid. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will therefore not support the amended bill because we believe it will cause too much negative consequences as it will bring good. We even believe that because of the various creative escapes, the sharing of profits will be the most damaging to the workers to whom it is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, all those who dared to vote for the amendments and then for the law that allows or legitimizes the compulsory sharing of profits among employees in the event that a decision is taken to split profits of more than 25% of the profit on the balance sheet. We can agree with the assessment of the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia, in which it assesses that we are witnessing an increasingly valuable race against the compulsory participation of workers in profits. When we are diagnosed with populism and the desire to like it, at the same time they list arguments that do not stand for serious judgment. They estimate that the proposal proposed by the Government is good and stimulating to simplify procedures and introduce tax reliefs, including non-payment of contributions. Okay, so we all agree with the usefulness of the proposed changes. In doing so, the Minister says that he has assured the representatives of major companies that, under these conditions, part of the profits will also be distributed to employees. So they were going to split the profit, and now that we've written down the obligation, they're not going to divide it. Under the same conditions, they won't divide it. However, this message can be understood as misleading and disagreeing with the sharing of profits among employees. The constitutional dispute is trespassing on property today. What about in recent years, I wonder? Even in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, this is not the case. The argument against a compulsory division of profits between France and France cannot be held back. They'd listen to him if France had a problem with it, but he doesn't have one. Even such a sung competitiveness of the economy in France is not affected negatively and will not be affected by us either. Also, we do not believe that foreign investors are waiting for today’s decision by the National Assembly. Where have they been until today? And the question is whether in Slovenia we want investors who want to quickly enrich themselves with cheap labour, or perhaps those who invest in development will be limited to new quality jobs with a higher added value of profit sharing. In addition, it should be reiterated that the sharing of profits among employees will include tax relief and non-payment of contributions. When we talk about non-competitiveness, which we will increase by compulsory profit sharing, or perhaps there is no reason for non-competitiveness to look elsewhere, perhaps even among the most vocal opponents of compulsory profit sharing, including among managers. As an argument against compulsory profit sharing we have also heard the case of Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, czech, 30 people on Holding will share their profits; those who create it, coals, hydro power plants, thermal power plants and elsewhere. So at least you admit that it is created by these people, how they will share it, and it will be decided by the congregation. Who is the HSE Assembly? Government of the Republic of Slovenia! So why fear? The opponents of the compulsory sharing of profits among employees recognise that acceptance will not jeopardise profits and carry a message within it after the additional taxation of capital. Those who should explain to foreigners that if they take only 25 % of their balance-sheet profit for themselves, only 25 % of their balance-sheet profit, while investing in development, this law does not entail any additional obligations. These people prefer to lobby for this marriage. In doing so, let me tell you once again the economic impact formula: increased profits from stimulating workers to create them, and tax reliefs are the sum, subtraction or minus can only be paid the amount of participation and this formula can certainly bring a good result. We still have the thought that workers are only a cost and they are eliminated with wages and allowances, in countless cases with minimum wages, and profit is a property issue; the owners are the ones who risk the most, the workers lose their salary anyway. I hope you're not serious. Who loses more, I wonder. The one who loses his profits and part of his capital, or the one who loses his job and thus loses his salary and only source of livelihood? So it's tectonic shifts in thinking when we realize that workers are also entitled to the work of profit, good managers and owners already know it today and they don't have to explain it. One more time. Workers will get the profit they share only if the sharing obligation is written down, and it will not be self-evident, because we are already hearing how they will avoid sharing profits among employees. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed law in the fourth, although hopes for success are very low.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u18	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Council of State, Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the sharing of profits for employees, and we also support the Government's proposal. Also in the previous government, for the first time, a law has passed which has passed the division of profits, including the introduction of tax advantages in sharing in such a way as to encourage employers to do so. The law was adopted in 2008 and could therefore not be approved for the first time until 2009 when the company’s business outcomes were also known. Therefore, if there were indeed such a great desire in the ruling coalition, especially in the SD, to share profits, then they could have gone the same way as they did in restricting wages of managers when, in fact, the Government or policy has restricted their wages to management, they could also have determined, by way of instructions, the compulsory distribution of profits or the sharing of profits to all companies, where the Government actually has in the authorities of control and management of its people, in the same way, by means of instructions. This did not happen and we could read that only 24 companies shared profits. So obviously the ruling policy is not really about dividing and actually wanting to do it in some way with a compulsory division, which is actually not possible, and what would be the problem in Europe. In fact, no analysis has been made of the implementation of the existing law, no basic analysis has been made of what are the weaknesses of existing legislation, which prevents or in some way impedes the sharing of profits between employees. That is why we have read the government law with interest in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and have assessed that it is a step forward. Step forward to the greater attractiveness of profit sharing and to this goal, to the greatest extent possible, to this division also among the employees who are definitely the ones who belong to them in a portion of the cake, if, of course, the profits are generated in society. So the amendment with which the SD came into the parliamentary procedure can in some way be referred to as the partisan amendment; both silently, scrambling, without coordination with the social partners, without the necessary consensus between those who create profits; it is created by both employees and employers. Here came this necessary dialogue, which usually brings bad solutions. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that in these times of crisis, parts of the coalition are all too busy sharing in the country, but very little is involved in how to create, how to activate the economy and how to share anything. The amendment that speaks of compulsory division may in fact be harmful. Employers will cover our circuits, employers will hide their actual profits in a variety of creative ways, because they know it, they already do it, and they will do it later. Even those who are not likely to cheat the country and the workers will be forced to do so for purely economic reasons. One weakness is that where profits will still be shared, it will probably be at the expense of wages or wage supplements, which is bad for workers, since contributions are not being paid out of this, but at least contributions to pension and disability insurance are not being paid. Even concerned that it was not the intention of the proposer of this amendment to abolish the division of profits to employees at all, because the basic proposal of the Government, which has simplified and made the law more attractive, will not be adopted, will obviously not be adopted, because today the decision on a completely different law is made. So if the amendment is adopted or if the law is adopted in such a form, then a unique solution will come. But if it is not adopted, then there will be no simplifications that would make the law more attractive.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members, we really believe that today's meeting would not be necessary if the law on the participation of workers in the distribution of profits were prepared, prepared in a qualitative manner by the Ministry of Economy and then put into the National Assembly. However, since an amendment has been tabled in a way that has not allowed it to be coalitionly coordinated or to be in line with the Economic and Social Council, we are witnessing the debates that we have heard in the first adoption by the Committee on the Economy and the Council of State. The only luck is that today, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility of discussion, because we would discuss, not on the basis of arguments, but clearly politically, ideologically, demogosically – what we have been listening to all these days. It was created, just as it is so characteristic of Slovenians, immediate division into each other, for and against each other, without having heard the opposite arguments, and that this false division, that those who are for compulsory division, are for workers, those who are for voluntary division, are for capital. This is very complex, very unrealistic and I am sure that the National Assembly would vote in favour of the participation of workers in profit, with the consent of all 90 and 89 Members and Members, because we are all aware of the importance of the worker's satisfaction, the importance of the stimulated worker and the sooner we start talking about the workforce, but of the labour or human capital, the sooner it will be better. Therefore, these discussions, which limited themselves to those who objected to the profit of the workers, obscured the basic, good message and the good solutions brought by the law, as prepared by the Government. It must be said that the law adopted by the previous government in 2008 was very good because it systematically introduced the participation of workers in the division of profits, but that it had shortcomings that proved to be true. And these shortcomings, it is said, are insufficient tax stimulus, too complex procedure and retention of the option of payment from one to three years, were those that also result in this shamefully low number of 24 companies. And it is precisely because of these arguments and the solutions brought by the law, as prepared by the Government, that number would certainly jump or many corporate leaders would decide to share profits among employees as well. That is why it is so unfair and unfair to discuss politically, demagogically, how all the directors, all the managers, look only at their pockets. I am convinced that it would also be good to look at who is interpreting such formulas on success, with what experience from direct production or where profit is generated. And it is likely that any manager, the director, is in the interest that workers are satisfied that they are stimulated, and that he will make an effort, if possible - and the possibility is given by this law - to share profits, either before or at the end, voluntarily among employees. It is hard to believe that there are no serious warnings from those who create, normally, along with workers, in companies of profit, including the basis for taxes, from which all our actions as countries are fed, so that they do not hear these serious warnings, how unpleasant, negative effects such compulsory division can bring. That is why we will oppose this compulsory division in the parliamentary group - my colleague Yuri has corrected me, we will oppose, except for Mr Yuri. However, we hope that the majority of us will not witness today that the President of the Government or the Government will experience some kind of distrust by the coalition in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda or at the latest at 1300 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item – First draft of the Slovenian Film Centre law, Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the group of 10 Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Andrejo Richter, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. We're moving on to the law. I give the floor to Minister Majda Shirca for further explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u22	Welcome to the presentation and discussion on the draft film center law, public agency! Respectable, we present a law that is simple, clear, operational, apolitical and also provides the basis for the professional development of the film and audiovisual production sector, as well as the conditions for the efficiency of budgetary financing. We are presenting a law that wants to unlock the upheaval created by the inadequacy of the existing regulation, as well as an inheritance that has been burdening continuous cinema production for many years. Two audit reports from the Court of Auditors, which gave my predecessor and the Film Fund a double negative opinion on this matter. We present a law that with the new film centre intends to set up a roofing system for an area for which at the time of the birth of the Slovenian State there was at least a hearing among all artistic areas. Since it is some kind of roof law in the field of film and the roof cannot be laid without grounds, let me stress that at the Ministry we are, despite the will of some who wanted the film to return to the Ministry's side, that we insisted on maintaining the form of an independent body as long as possible beyond the possibility that the aesthetics are directly decided by the Minister, even though it is also competent. The history of Slovenian film has been accompanied many times by a shadowy and sometimes sunny term of power and we would like the film industry to be as autonomous as possible, because I am convinced that we need an autonomous body and that the country needs to be entrusted primarily with systemic, conceptual care, but not, for example, with the selection of works of art; that is, care for a healthy budget, to control, to open the way to the world and to enable development. The system of state aid to cinematographic production has, however, been well thought out, but since the establishment of the film fund, the shortcomings that have been overcome by this bill have been demonstrated. Finally, the 2008 Law on Public Funds provides that the Film Fund shall continue its work within two years, i.e. either continue its work or join another legal person or become a legal person. The public fund can no longer be, this is clear because it does not provide sufficient assets under the Public Funds Act. The Agency is the right way. By the way, some of you are afraid that she will no longer have a link, if I say so, to Viba and her technical assistance. This is not the case, and it is a matter of artificial fears, which are also fueled by discomfort, especially what is new. But what is really new in this film center? Firstly, applicants will become fully project owners by means of grants. New extra-budgetary sources of funding have been added, two-year funding is legalised, calls have a very precise and transparent procedure, eligible costs are determined, calls for audiovisual media are connected and each project has a mandatory audit that ensures transparency and legality of funding. A system of regular audit and internal control is also in place. The law brings order, brings incentives, stimulates the search for partners outside our borders and the involvement of other producers, in this case national broadcasters and other televisions. Perhaps today, someone who feels uncomfortable before this law thinks that the only real law is a large budget. In fact, the law is the law over all laws in the end, the one who can create, the one who can lead the institution, and the one who can think openly. Undoubtedly, some of the advantages that are within the future agency of the film centre are a transparent form of transparent forms of State aid offering and to stimulate the development of Slovenian cinema, which, I say, is still in a cramp that we are trying to shake down because of heritage. There is no doubt that the law will help. There will also be a public debate, which will take place next month, and we expect many of your comments as well as comments from the interested public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre. In the DeSUS Group, we recognize the intention and intention of the proposer to achieve the purpose of high quality creativity in the field of film, cinema and audiovisual activities, reliablely one of the very important areas and segments of Slovenian culture. It is therefore appropriate to ensure the smooth functioning of the operator of this activity, which means an appropriate status, organisational structure, autonomy of decision-making, financial reinforcement and transparency and rationality of business. As a result, the film institution must be independent and independent of politicians. The proposer considers that the most appropriate form for optimal achievement of these objectives is the public agency. We join this view in the DeSUS Group, because this option has been chosen on the basis of analyses of the different possibilities for status organisation. In this way, changes will not only take place in organisational and status terms, but significant changes will also take place in the area of financing or financing projects and costs related to public tendering and competitions and will increase opportunities for their implementation. In doing so, it is good to follow the Court of Auditors’ opinion and the findings made so far of practice, which in many cases has shown the inability to realize due to the indiscretion and inadequacy of legal rules. The same is true of the Court of Auditors’ findings regarding the supervision of the Film Fund, which is equally good. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law is suitable for further procedure, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The basic objective of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre as a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia is to establish a legal basis for the work and organisation of the Agency and then comply with existing legislation in this field. The new law is intended to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields in the Republic of Slovenia. The aim is to create appropriate conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activities, for development and education in that field. It is also a change in the legal and legal form, as it is estimated that the public agency will be the most appropriate legal and organisational form of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and will act as such. The bill is also intended to provide an appropriate specification of the terms and conditions with provisions on financial transactions, which is also intended to make projects more transparent and more rational. The provisions of the proposed law define the purpose, activity, organisation, financing and control of the film centre as a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The new proposals also include provisions on co-financing of projects, on the transfer of tenders to AV projects from the Ministry of Culture to the Agency and on the tendering procedures themselves. Regrettably, many comments were not taken into account in the creation of the bill and the compatibility of the law with the national cultural programme 2008-2011, which would have to be fully regulated by the status of key entities in the AV area, is also questionable. That is why there is opposition and dissatisfaction of the professional public, I mean the Association of Film Producers of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators, the Association of Slovenian Directors and the rest of the professional public. It is not satisfied with its insufficient involvement in the Agency's bodies, in particular the Council of the Agency. In the Slovenian national side, however, we agree that order must be made in this area. I mean, not only the legal and legal changes or the organisational forms, but also the appropriate professional supervision of the calls for proposals and the selection or financing of certain projects, as we have already warned in our written questions and initiatives of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. It is all too much to spend the money of Slovenian taxpayers recklessly, not to list all known missing low-quality film projects, which do not really have any connection with art or with any meaningful cultural, artistic creation. We strongly hope that the restructuring of the Fund will result in a different way of working, inviting projects and, above all, spending resources. Let me just briefly point out our emergency in the Member's question when it came to the "s:porous" project with the bear or project "The Hair on the Language" where we have warned that most of last year's recipients of funds and media calls were different societies, private institutions, theatres, bloggers, not media representatives who create programming content of the media is a fundamental activity and are engaged in professional journalism and are employed by journalists and professional staff to this end. Some products that have been supported by public money and now come to the public are highly controversial and cannot be talked about in any way about public cultural interest. Thus, the funding of the MC Medvoda Public Institute, as you know, is exactly the above-mentioned project. And so on, I do not list yet, even from my end, various quasi-artistic, cultural projects that are financed in this way as they are financed. So we really hope that there will be a change in the way we work and also a number of other changes, so to speak, for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Ministry team, colleagues and colleagues! In 2008, a new law on public funds was adopted, which determined that the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, established by the Film Fund Act, could choose one of the following legal options for its status transformation: whether to continue its work or to join another legal person. or it is recast within two years of the implementation of the Public Funds Act, i.e. by 12. 8. 2010 In view of the purpose of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the tasks it performs and the method of funding it has taken over the opinion of the applicant that it is most appropriate for the Film Fund to be transformed into a public agency in accordance with the Law on Public Agencies. At the LDS Club, we believe that the chosen status form of the Film Fund Agency is particularly appropriate because public agencies are set up to carry out supervisory and professional tasks in the public interest. A strong argument for transforming the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia into an agency, in the LDS we see mainly in the provisions of the Law on Public Agencies, which discusses the criteria for setting up, as the agency is established if, according to the nature or type of tasks, there is no need for or adequate permanent direct political control over the performance of the tasks. For the financing of Slovenian film production, continuous political control is certainly inappropriate. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia also cited an extremely important reason for the adoption of the new law as part of its audit report issued last July. The law takes full account of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations, in particular that there is a need to regulate the public tender procedure, the criteria and the selection criteria on it, as irregularities have been committed by the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the execution and election of the public tender. Films were included in the film programme without applying for a public competition, which is contrary to the Realisation Act. culture, by a decision establishing and general conditions stipulating that the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia co-finances projects through public competitions or co-financed film projects which have already received a negative decision on co-financing of films, despite the fact that the Film Fund cannot conclude a co-financing agreement in such a case. The new law also eliminates the share of the revenue of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia from the exploitation of films after the completed project, since the funds invested by the Agency in the development of the script or project are no longer part of the agency and therefore no longer represent the Agency's contribution to the distribution value of the film. In our view, this is a positive solution, as these measures will strengthen the production centre and encourage producers to do more actively in the field of film exploitation, from which they will benefit more than ever. Unlike so far, funding of the Agency will be determined, while resources of the state budget, donations, sponsorships, own income and resources from cooperation with international organisations remain as regulated as before, two additional sources are added to the financing of Slovenian film production. Extrabudgetary financiers, such as RTV Slovenia and all other broadcasters on the list of national multiplexes broadcast throughout the territory of coverage of multiplex, will contribute through their own tendering resources to the production of films by independent producers for public, in particular cinematographic performance. In the LDS, we support the proposed changes resulting from the legal requirements for the conversion of the existing film fund and are changes towards transparent financial operations of the film centre, in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. However, in the Liberal Democracy, we have also followed very closely the warnings of the professional and interested public, which in particular has expressed a number of criticisms and concerns about the content of the law in recent years, and even made a request for the withdrawal of the law from further consideration. At the same time, we were a little surprised because the assessments were very positive when the law was first presented. On the basis of the warnings in the LDS, we supported the proposal for a public presentation of opinions on the proposed solutions to the law. Thus, in the context of the public presentation of opinions and also in the context of today's first reading of the draft law in the National Assembly, we expect answers and further clarifications to certain questions. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the relationship of the proposed law to the national programme for culture, the questions about the placement of Viba film in the integrated regulation of film production in our country, and to the question of the effectiveness of the legal solution on the proportion of money that national TV and commercial television must contribute to the film production, with a view to avoiding this issue. Unfortunately, we cannot find new solutions to exempt VAT from the eligible costs, as this is a requirement of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. However, it may be possible to find an answer to how to alleviate the situation of producers who claim that they themselves will not be able to cope with the additional VAT burden. Although we do not see in the LDS the text of the law the express concern of some that a new law may be doomed to independent producers, it is also right to give a clear answer to these dilemmas. In doing so, we listed only a few dilemmas that were established under the new law, but we believe that the law is a good basis for promoting creativity in the film and audiovisual field and for creating appropriate conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activity, as well as for promoting development in the field of film and audiovisual activity. Despite our concerns, we consider that the legal text is a good basis for further consideration, so we will support it at the Liberal Democracy Club in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats will be presented by the Magi. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u30	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, vice-president, distinguished minister, secretary of state with co-workers! The Group of Social Democrats will support the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre is suitable for further consideration by the public agency. On the basis of a public debate on 28 June's opinions, we will decide what additional content is needed in order to be able to support the proposal further. In doing so, I should point out that the solutions proposed must follow the objectives of the proposal set out in the introduction. It is particularly important to argue that the purpose of the law is to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields and to create appropriate conditions for this and to ensure the Agency's smooth functioning by increasing the funding for co-financing projects. We also confirm the opinion of Dr. Miran Zupanič, who wrote in the April issue of the magazine Kranj, "that the aim of the law must be to create an environment in which creators will uninterruptedly realize their potentials and in which film culture, which is in the public interest, will develop successfully". It adds that the responsibility to ensure conditions for the exercise of interest in any field lies with the State. We must therefore answer two fundamental questions: What will be the impact of the proposed solutions on the financing of film creativity? Ter: Whether the proposal will contribute to the quality implementation of public interest or continue to bear witness to the fact that the film scene will also be left to the interests of the political authorities on a case-by-case basis. Slovenian film has many viewers, in particular youth films, documentary films have been the bearers of the Slovenian film industry since. This is confirmed by data about the number of visitors in Slovenian cinematographers. It is also worth stressing that our creators are very recognizable abroad, as they are the winners of important awards at all major film festivals around the world and Europe. Unfortunately, however, in recent years we have witnessed conflicting opinions of the profession and policy when we are talking about the conditions and criteria for making available public funds. Our film art has a 100-year tradition, but it is in a deprived position compared to other art. Film art still doesn't have room in the circle of other art. According to experts, the situation in the field of culture is least favourable in areas where institutional support is not strong. This is why film production is usually so automatically neglected. It should be noted, however, that in order to establish their own opinion on media and audiovisual literacy, young generation education is a very important building block, so the law can only be a tool to solve the situation, a tool to create conditions for the future. The normal regulation of film creation needs to be changed – not because of the law on public funds, which sets a deadline for the transformation of the Film Fund, but mainly because of the content. The fact that the film area is unregulated is also evidenced by the fact that special treatments were received at the meetings of the National Council for Culture. This decision, inter alia, in July 2007, concluded that the suspicions and assessments of the functioning of public institutions in the field of film, the first place of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the deep crisis of governance, the management of public funds and certain illegal procedures for the adoption of programmes throughout the financial chain. We now have a proposal for a law that provides stable funding for the Agency by subsidising state resources. In addition, it obliges Radiotelevision Slovenia and commercial television to perform their own calls to support Slovenian film production. Finally, it comes into law on the basis of two-year funding. The production and execution of the film is a process that needs its time, so the year was often a major obstacle, which also led to certain funding irregularities. Finally, the transparency of the use of resources is being established as Article 15 of the Audit procedure provides that any project coming into state resources must be audited within six months of the completion of the project. This must be done by an authorised audit firm. The costs are indeed eligible costs of the project, but compared to the rest of the work in relation to the company price list for me or our group can be very high. Of course, this is an opinion that we will be able to verify at a certain time when the first projects will also be completed. The aim of the proposer is also to give the profession greater influence in management. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support this decision and, at the same time, because of the warnings of film makers who are not of the same opinion, we are somewhat held back. I believe that we will have a good basis for further decision at the public hearing. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the bill is suitable for further consideration, while we hope that the proposaler will be able to establish an appropriate relationship between the expectations of film makers and responsibility and the city of the country in the management of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u32	Dear colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers, distinguished presidents! Whenever an area of film was tried in the past, a madhouse broke out in all the governments we know after the independence: either personal, with protests, either by film workers, or by the Court of Auditors; whatever it might have been to cooperate with the film, it was against. So this is a particularly problematic area, and it is only right to deal with it once. This problematic area has had a serious history, since since Lenin said famous words at the beginning of the previous century that particular attention should be paid to the film, because it is the most important contemporary art, and it is true. This is the most resounding, most expensive, most extensive art, stage art that millions and millions of people see. It says here that the appetites are the biggest. And in the past it has always happened that film makers were against the proposed changes and against the regulation of the area. In the past period, this has happened several times, and also the Minister of the current government seems to me to have strongly encouraged these problems by film workers. And now they've happened to her alone. The company of film producers of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators and the Association of Slovenian Directors are against these solutions, as they are written here and proposed in this law. Even though the law has good purposes, which, of course, can be pressured, we know where, but their objections are quite valid. I'm going to tell you a few of them, let them finally speak to you at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u33	Please listen to Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u34	First time. A public letter written to the Ministry and the Ministers: "We inform you that the key comments of the interested public have not been taken into account." The proposal for a law is not in line with the national programme for culture and it is not regulated for the overall organisation of the status key entities defining it in the audiovisual field. The Viba Film Studio is thus not mentioned, although the Ministry says it is mentioned in another law. In fact, the ministry can always say that any of these problems are already in another marriage or that it will still be in any marriage. Nevertheless, we do wish that he would be mentioned here in some way. Out-of-budget financing of film production determined in a manner that does not guarantee any actual increase in film production and resources or mechanisms for its control and sanctioning of non-implementation. Interestingly, the Ministry claims otherwise. The bill has also transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the new agency the tendering or co-financing of the project from the budget line. This means doubling bureaucracy for us, and in some ways, however, clearly, autonomy, while at the same time this autonomy can still be verified in practice, because it can very easily happen that it will also be estranged. We will get a whole series of new bureaucrats who will be preparing tenders — that is for sure. And as we have in the past debates on a number of issues on the Committee on Culture, we have found that sometimes the ministry simply cannot put an end to the work when they come to the call for objections because there is "so much of this work". So we're getting a new bureaucracy. There's something else you need to say. The relationship with Radiotelevision remains somewhat unclear or is declarative. The law should define a way of cooperating between Radiotelevision Slovenia and the Film Centre, as this has always caused problems in practice. However, in the law we miss such a provision on how to cooperate, as it is only written in a declaration. This cooperation may be contractual, may be concluded or may be otherwise and so on. In practice, they are an interesting conflict between the Film Centre and Radiotelevision Slovenia, since it is the first for the primary cinematographic performance and the second for the primary television production of film works, which are co-financed and supported by both. The nature of the share or contribution of RTV Slovenia remains unclear, while it is somehow determined that the Film Centre receives a subsidy in the form of State aid. On RTV Slovenia, these issues remain unresolved, but it would be useful to address them, particularly in the case of joint co-productions. Of course, we will hear that this is in another law, but I think that there is a whole range of shortcomings in this new proposal on the Film Centre, which should be complemented. I am also very promising from this debate, which will take place on 28 June. I hope that the motions of film makers will be weighty, and as far as we are concerned, the Group of Members, of course, we will take all the weighty proposals into account and propose a correction. For the time being, the nature of this text seems to us not yet appropriate for further consideration, since it should be somewhat more consistent with film workers. Dear Minister, I hope that in this case it is coordinated at least with the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u36	Dear President, Honourable Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! As we need a new law on Radiotelevision Slovenia, there are also urgent changes in the field of film. Why are they necessary? First of all, because the Film Fund is now operating on several legal bases and the formal legal status of the Fund needs to be regulated for stable production. Equally important are the findings and recommendations resulting from the revision of the correctness and prudence of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the National Programme for Culture also discusses the effective production system of the national film programme. In the Group of Members, we really believe that we all want a continuous Slovenian film production. Key changes are based on recommendations or revisions of the Court of Auditors. This improves the process itself, the criteria and the criteria of the public tender, as a result of rationalisation, strengthens the structure of eligible costs, introduces two-year co-financing of projects and a regular audit system. The maximum co-financing rate is in line with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors for low-budget children, youth and demanding films at 80%, and for all other projects, no more than 50% of the eligible costs will be allocated. One of the toughest tasks was to choose the most appropriate form of formal legal status of the Film Fund. Among the different possibilities of connecting back to the ministry, the fund, the institution, the public agency is the one that allows for the greatest possible institutional autonomy, independence in project evaluation, as well as to the maximum extent possible funding independence. The law also provides new extra-budgetary sources for the co-financing of Slovenian film production RTV Slovenia and commercial television with national coverage. These TVs will co-finance Slovenian films on their own. An invitation to tender for audiovisual projects is submitted to the Agency from the Ministry of Culture, thus separating the policy from the decision on financing of AV activities. For producers, however, a very welcome and beneficial change is the removal of the shares of the income of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia from the exploitation of films after the completed project. If we want to cut across long-term agony in the film field and finally address the status deficiencies of the current regime, we need to adopt key changes in the bill. Of course, some with the solutions offered are also dissatisfied. Among other things, several members of interest associations in the Agency’s supervisory board are missing, as are the arrangements for the status of other entities operating in this area. Today, however, we are only in the initial consideration of the law. In a short time, we will be able to hear the opinion and views of the general public at the public hearing. We have sufficient time and will to complete the bill and to upgrade it accordingly. For the Group of Members, the draft law is indeed suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u38	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, the distinguished, well-known! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we understand the bill as a way to remedy the existing situation in the Film Fund. It is essential in the new law that the State's contribution to the film would no longer be understood as an investment, but rather as some kind of subsidy. Thus, the State would no longer be a party to the profit, since it would no longer have producer status. It could subsidise up to 50% of the film, except for youth and low budget films, where the percentage rises to 80%. Professionals are expected to play a key role at the Slovenian Film Centre, which is likely to be a time-consuming event. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Film Centre is prepared in synergy with the RTV Act, which we discussed yesterday and which we still have a lot of comments on, and with the Media Act, which we do not know exactly where it stopped in the process. We therefore expect the Slovenian People's Party's Group to lead the bill fundamentally, to make the film centre more independent and dynamic, to make payments only on the basis of evidence and to make the centre work only for the good of Slovenian film and creators. However, since this is a very professional topic, we are also counting on the possibility for the interested and professional public to present their opinions and views on the draft law in the context of a public presentation of opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. He won't discuss it. Franz Pukšič, he won't discuss it. Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. As we know, Slovenian professional film production since its 1946, when the film Franceta Štiglica was filmed on its land, recorded quite a good number of films, namely 130, and from 1995 to 2009, was co-financed in the period of the young Slovenian country of 41 feature films and 13 international co-productions. Unfortunately, we have a debate on a single law in the field of culture today that discusses the formal legal statute and the impact of the formal legal status on the activity and content of one very important cultural activity, such as film and audiovisual production. Unfortunately, I am burdened by the balance of the budget, which, of course, also concerns the Ministry of Culture and, unfortunately, also this area. Although some have found that this area will form the 21st century and will also shape the political thinking and views of all those who in some way co-create in this area, it does not appear that much more attention is being given to this area, particularly in the financial circles. It is said that here again we will have a problem with how and how to create opportunities for a modern, comprehensive approach, for a creative approach in creating and facilitating the creativity of Slovenian creative filmmakers. I am afraid that again we will have problems, precisely because of the financial situation, through education in this area, in particular the education of young people, who, due to modern technology, will have much more knowledge, much more education abroad and also contributions to the purchase of equipment. So I welcome the proposal within our group that we also leave it to the public to say, on this very complex issue, that we will talk about the substantive problem on Monday 28th, and see what can actually be done, because without stable finances, without finances that will actually allow entry into other markets, because this is also the goal of our Slovenian production, we will not do anything with the status changes. Of course, we will comply with the umbrella law on public funds, but the content of complex and important activities will not be enriched. I would just like to say that I think that we should actually follow good traditions, especially in all areas, including in the area of education, the view of the education of all those Slovenian future film consumers and the education school of those who will actually also go to cinemas and watch not only cheap films of different so-known co-productions, but that they will also watch Slovenian film. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will not discuss it. Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and Mrs Ostrouska! I think that the encounter with the film, with the operation of the current Film Fund, was coming to the National Assembly on various routes, but usually always related to any irregularities, problems and inefficiencies found so that even after a review of the Court of Auditors, the necessary changes could be expected. Whether these changes, which we are receiving in the Slovenian Film Centre Bill, are an appropriate answer to all the dilemmas, is another question, if we are of course considering that we have received opinions in the parliamentary offices at the time of the proposal, which were not exactly aligned with the bill proposal and this bill in favour. But the original intention of the three representative associations in the field of film creativity quoted today has been given the opportunity to respond, as has been said several times already today, when a public presentation of opinions and an initial drastic demand for the marriage to be withdrawn, but it was popular to speak publicly about the law today in the context of the first hearing and then, as it were, in the public presentation of opinions. However, I note that this proposal for a law has not received a frontal opposition only if I refer to the summary of the comments of the Association of Slovenian Film Creators published in Ekran. However, there are at least three advantages to the proposed law. And what's interesting is that all three pluses actually refer to the foundation that is needed for successful film creativity. This is a source of funding. This is State support as a subsidy and not an illegal investment, which is the first plus; then the intention of the proposer to include television in the operation of the fund, both by co-financing and co-decision and third, is intended by the proposer to ensure the decisive role of the profession in the management of the Slovenian Film Centre. So, two of them are clearly connected to the finances and the third plus the impact of the profession. If two such essential elements are provided, then I do not see the fear that we would not be able to find consensus on those things that disturb film makers and, last but not least, politics as it has been heard. However, the film has always been a range of various interesting influences, but it is clear that we have heard a quote – it is quite interesting that fellow Member Zorn quoted Lenin as saying. I would like to add something else after World War II, and McCarthy quoted something else — and the pogroms that happened in America, the film makers who were accused. After all, we have different committees assessing the appropriateness of the films for distribution – something about the Vatican could also be said about the views of the Vatican on films; we could even say that whenever there is such a wide circle of creativity affecting people, there is a particularly precise view and even appetite for influence. But to not only talk about this now, I would say, the more censoring role of politics, society and other structures, I would like to point out that also famous cultural manager Mitja Rotovnik is one of the fundamental problems for Slovenian film that this is the amount of money that is intended for film. Here, interestingly, another older art is associated with the film, which is the one that gets its expression in the book. And if we look at the budget cut: EUR 4.2 million for the film and, say, EUR 6.2 million for the book, it is really not possible to compare it with the amounts received by other institutions in culture. To make no mistake, it is not my intention to say that less money is to be given to others, but it is my intention to say that if we find it as a policy of consensus, that we need a Slovenian film to be valuable to us, we need to do something to make the numbers more favourable. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, in this review says - I will only stay with the numbers of feature films - for example, in 2004 - 7, in 2005 - 11, in 2006 - 5, in 2007 - 3 and in 2008 again 7 films. It would be nice, of course, to get close to those highest numbers, for example, in 2005 - 11. But, as we say, much depends on the conditions in which film creativity will work. And if the law will help strengthen funding sources for Slovenian film, there is no reason why we could not support this law, but also if film makers have doubts that that requirement of the Slovenian national cultural programme for 2008-2011 is not fulfilled. I am confident that today, and especially when the opinions are presented publicly, there will be ample opportunity to find answers to those questions that separate us and to find what unites us so that we can support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not present very deep and thorough thoughts myself, because there is neither the Film Fund nor the public agency which is supposed to be referred to as the Slovenian Film Centre, an area I know on the professional side. But it is an area that I know from a completely different point of view, which is from the organization of the film festival that was created, was born and grew up in the congregation where I live. It is the Film Festival Kino Island – Isola Cinema. I think this is an example of how a person who does not have a particular field of expertise or in the field of cultural activity can see, but from an organisational and financial point of view, what a mix-up has been made in the past, say, five, six years in the organization of film festivals. However, since man also has the opportunity to contact film makers in this work, I can extend this opinion on film confusion also to film creation, film creation. I must say that it is high time to do something here; not only in the area of financing, but also in the area of organisation or distribution of funds for film creativity and also in relations within the area of creation and financing, who is the owner, who is not the owner, how distribution is carried out, who will ensure that distribution is as effective as possible and all that is similar. I think that the situation in the field of film art in Slovenia is so that it can't get any worse, and therefore I am convinced that this law, while, of course, in the public presentation of opinions and later in the preparation of amendments to the law in the second reading, will lead to the fact that film makers will finally be satisfied with what will come out of the proposed law. I would just like to say that the strange situations that have arisen in 2005 and 2006 would not have been understood by anyone, as I had heard earlier a presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, that this was a period when I did not know who deliberately created the external impression that in the field of film creativity or in the area of the collection and distribution of money for film creativity everything was wrong. The fact is that the confusion at the time was completely complete, because we had directors of the film fund who were changing on the current tape, the Court of Auditors found that the chaos in the field of financing was perfect, we did not know whose copyrights they were. Who is he who owns the film once it's made and when it's financed in one way or another? I have to say that because I don't understand film work, I was just wondering, and I didn't know what was actually going on. Once you've had your consent, let's say the film festival will be funded by the Film Fund, then about a month or two later someone made up and said, "No, nothing will be financed because we don't like it." Why didn't they like it at the Film Fund all of a sudden? Don't ask me! It is true, however, that between the two directors changed or suddenly became President of the Supervisory Board, or what they already had, the Director, which I found odd, because they were great experts, apparently, those who ran the supervisory authorities in the Film Fund. [[...]] I think that at the very least, there is a need to make an order in this area that will last for a while. How can a person, a director, a screenwriter, or whatever it is called, playwrights, be creative for God's sake, if they have no idea by tomorrow what will happen! And for this reason, I support that the law goes into circulation, and I'm going to say that we start to speak more about it, seriously, that we fix what we're going to find together, that it's not right, and that it's a happy way, because I think that film makers finally need one reliable, safe and long-term creative period. Then in a few years, however, we will be able to say that 11 films a year, but I am sure that of all the films that our film makers are going to make, we will get more and more successful films because it seems that the generations that are now creating can be measured by those who have created the Vesna, the Valley of Peace and all the movies that I know from childhood and that I have to remember with joy and nostalgia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the conclusion that this proposal for a law is the appropriate basis for further consideration. In doing so, I would say that my film knowledge is distorted, except that I am a regular companion of the Isola Island Festival, and perhaps there is some kind of inspiration that I will be able to combine with some of the creators today in this brief debate. I think it will be difficult to find a solution with which everyone would agree, especially those who are directly or directly involved in film creativity. It will be difficult to satisfy the law, one way or another. This is my view, because film makers are just some kind of bohemian ego owners with a positive foregleam that there will be no mistake, and that's why it's hard to get it one move. It is also true that there is no law, but it is not only about film creativity, of course it does not save the future, but it saves the past and the present and gives hope that in the future it will be better and different than it is now. And this is how I look at the efforts of the Ministry of Culture to solve the several-year agony of the Film Fund. Last but not least, the audit of the Court of Auditors was commissioned by the Ministry of Culture, since, at least so much to be understood from this audit, there were too many irregularities in the use and sharing of such modest resources as are intended for film creativity. Last but not least, the humane square circle in the management of the Film Fund over the last few years and especially the throwing of pollen under the feet among the main actors has added its to facing these problems in the area of the creation of Slovenian film. I therefore believe that it is the right decision to make a public presentation of opinions on June 28th and there, I expect that the main word will be that of film makers and those who are involved in organising film creation, not of course politicians and some material scratchers who have appeared and piled up around the Film Fund in recent years. Comrade Tank, I don't count you in this group, so you can calm down. And in the end, there's something else. My colleague Majda has already mentioned one view of the distribution of cultural budgetary money. I also kind of agree with the view of the cultural manager from Cankarje home that the few more than 100 million euros distributed by the cultural ministry are, of course, far too little, not only for those 67 public institutions to be distributed to, but in the end, there is a film fund to be given to, and that this fund is at the end. Therefore, in addition to the solutions that are supposed to represent some stability in the financing of film creativity, I expect that only some euro will be allocated to film creativity from this state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss it, mag. Borut Saiovic is not either. Not Dr. Paule Gantar, not Tadej Slapnik. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We've obviously had some problems with Slovenian film over the last few years, when Mrs Shirca was still a Member, we talked about this monthly, not to say anything further. The whole time, it was a problem whether we made four movies a year, five, six or none. Now that we've been in charge of the ministry, we've really come to the point that we haven't recorded one in the past year. We were confident that all of this would change when she became Minister and we would record a large number of recorded films, great positive changes and that things would start to work in the right direction, but, as we can see, things are getting worse, not better. However, we finance some strange films, sex with a bear and the like, which we discussed at one of the meetings of the Committee on Culture. Now, the one in charge of film production in Slovenia, this is the Film Fund, which we will now arrange with the second law, presented the 2009 work plan this February. I mean, in January 2010, you can present your 2009 work report, not your plan. And I hope that we will not then, in 2011, adopt the 2010 programme, because it makes no sense to write back once the year has passed. Apparently, Mrs Mahnetova, director of the Film Fund, worked more or too hard to participate in the formation of this law, which we are discussing today, instead of doing the things that the Film Fund runs. I can only find that the situation is even worse than it was – and it was mentioned that the directors were changing there, that is true, also because Mrs Mahnet controlled certain things, challenged the directors of the day, prevented cooperation and work. And that's why we saw, as it were, we kept talking about movies and where these Slovenian films were and they weren't anywhere. The Fund should also publish the call for this year. As far as I know, the invitation to tender has been issued a few days ago, it seems to be May, and it will take at least 30 days, which means that we probably missed some smart production in 2010. A call at the beginning of the year can mean that nothing will happen in that year, just in the middle of the year, just before vacation. We will have a public hearing this month. I regret that we speak at first reading earlier, we have this law as if we listened to all those concerned by the law. We agreed on this last time at a meeting of the Committee on Culture, and we would expect to hear earlier from film workers, directors and others before we talk here about concrete things that probably make it harder for Members to discuss than for those whose law is intended and for whom it has been prepared. What the directors think, said film director Maja Weiss in Finance: "For me, the Film Fund may fall apart and the annual call for film production should be published at the Ministry of Defence." That's what things look like in Slovenia. We are probably back in business at the end or in the wrong end if the Association of Film Producers of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators, the Society of Directors invites the Ministry to withdraw the law, to align it with those for whom it says to comply with the profession. They also point out that the proposal for a law does not comply with the national programme for culture for the period 2008-2011, which requires the State to fully regulate the status of key actors active in this area by adopting a umbrella law on audiovisual culture by 2010. We have proposed this question in addition to the questions that will be presented in public and will see what the answers and results will be. Now maybe if I go through the articles or at least say some of the key things in the law that I think should be pointed out. The law does not set out in Article 5, which deals with the participation of the Film Centre with RTV Slovenia – should probably define cooperation more precisely. As some have noted, this was precisely what caused the most difficulties in practice, i.e. the provisions and the precise definition of how and how this cooperation will be; whether it is contractual cooperation, what is agreed with the treaty, when it has to be concluded or other cooperation, in short, that things are a little clearer that there will be no conflicts, which is so often happening to us. Film makers also point out that it is probably not best to transfer the call for audiovisual production from the Ministry of Culture to the Film Fund. I will not say that things are ideal when organised by the Ministry of Culture, we have also had a lot of discussions and an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture, but if others point to this, so that because of the nature of the invitation to tender it should still remain at the Ministry of Culture, it would be reasonable for the public to remain there. As I said yesterday, the law stipulates that the Film Fund can execute a call. I don't know why we like to write it that way because it can or doesn't happen; but it usually doesn't, because if there's no obligation, then it's a quick excuse not to happen. I think the law should avoid diction so that the Film Fund can execute the call. He's got to. If we can say so, I'm afraid there won't be any, because if these calls, which he has to make now, fail in time, I doubt there will be another one. As I said, we have had in many laws, in the law on financing education and education it is written that the school "may" organise food; and, of course, it is not because if it is "may", it is not obliged to do so and this has not happened until we have changed the law in that sense. There are other things in marriage. We agree, as some have said, that order must be made in this area. That is true, but it would probably make sense for the Ministry to obtain at least the consent of those for whom the law is written. Of course, everyone will never agree. However, if at least those for whom the law is written, that would probably be because it is important and would mean, above all, that the law is lifelike and that it is prepared so that those to whom we write it can benefit. The film fund remains a public fund as proposed, although the Court of Auditors has had doubts about this. There's no mention of the viba of the movie. The Ministry, however, explained why. Given that it remains, as I said, a public fund, I wonder how you are not so innovative here – has it changed? Okay. Then maybe we'll get something new like RTV, something they don't know anywhere. What a matter the Ministry will certainly answer. I think it would be far more reasonable than if we were already discussing this law at first reading today, to really listen to the public presentation of opinions, including those directly concerned by the law, so that we can also create some opinions on how the profession accepts the proposal and what they think about the bill. I've made some points. There will certainly be another one through the debate, so I don't know how we're going to proceed with the law. In any case, we want to take a step forward and set things straight. However, if there is so much opposition to the law, I doubt that this is the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! Also in the case of this bill, which we are considering today, it has been shown, like yesterday, how a rapidly large difference between words and wishes can arise; between what you represent and suggest or insist on when you are not responsible, and what you can do or what you can do when you are a key or chief executive, an operative and so on. Also in the area of culture, this person is extremely large, not only among the views of former fellow Member Majda Shirca. There is also a big difference between what was said at the hearing and this subject matter. A great discreet, big difference. In fact, we have somehow come up with a situation where even those to whom the content is intended, for whom we take some solutions, similar to that of RTV, in this film fund, disagree with the essential substantive points of the solution and have comments against publicly and so on. This probably also points to a government approach, including the Minister of Culture, that in such a way that it is not possible to obtain the majority support of those who are users of these laws, these proposals, in spite of which you persist and send the materials into the legislative process. This happened yesterday in the law on RTV, when key stakeholders, contractors, creators, unions, solutions do not support, not even the political part does, and there is likely to be a problem for the professional public as well as others; and this is the same in this case. In this way, I think that in fact, the cultural minister should not express culture when instead of dialogue, when instead of a conversation, instead of coordination, it is a matter of force that is not coordinated. I think that much more effort should be put into those things that are intended for them. The next thing that is and what is also significant for these two years is that many in this cultural field are also losing money. European funds for certain content, too, are likely to be in cases where the interest of those investing is not in a position to do so. On the other hand, the Government allocates €60 million of European funding for other projects. During the previous period we also dealt with feature Slovenian films. I think that in one of the discussions there was also a threshold, some goal, how many feature films must be produced by Slovenian production every year. This goal has been set, it has been relatively high, but we can only find that this goal has not been achieved by half and we are not at a third of that goal. And given that the film area, which is particularly at the heart of our Minister of Culture, would certainly be a much better result if, somewhere, we expected a significantly greater realization. The fact that a matter may be delayed in inheritance or in the development of other programs — not an emotional area, an intimate area — may still be understood. But not to go according to plans or to make a significant deviation from these plans in an area of particular interest, stressed by the interest of the one who runs this area, but probably not well, for then we can only monitor developments in other areas with less attention to them. Probably also Slovenian film, Slovenian film production, and cultural developments are not at all an honor, including events in the Film Fund over the last two years. For more than a year, the government has lost policy by replacing the director of the Film Fund. Even after receiving the dismissed Director of the Court's judgment, which she returned to her post, the Government made a special effort to recommence her and, probably, such moves by the Government, when they wanted to make a change, to make human resources changes, did not contribute to the stability of the situation in this area. I'm sure you don't! They're not on any of them, and they probably won't be on that either. And as a result, it is also likely that nothing special, nothing effective, nothing productive is happening in this area. I do not think that cultural policy, not in the Film Fund, can be the objective of any kind of function. If we have appointed people who are there and have also been legally appointed, then there is probably no need for policy to be very involved with whether they are suitable for or not to perform this function. This probably takes the will of all those involved in this area, stops many processes, no calls, there is no broader support for projects in this area, and this also causes disintegration, both between those in charge and users of these matters. In any event, I would expect that in all those areas where there is insufficient consensus between stakeholders or between partners concerned by individual departments, public representations of opinions would first be made in order to obtain views from those who have a different perspective, which see things differently, and that they would only then talk about the principles and fundamental orientations of the legal solutions to which this debate is intended. This debate, because it is a first reading, is intended primarily to see whether these fundamental concepts are followed by fundamental approaches. And if film makers do not agree with the basic approaches, then it is difficult only in a political way, by voting, by enforcing the coalition majority to participate in such decisions; this is not the only area. The RTV Act is similar, similar, and the labour legislation that is now coming into the National Assembly has the same flaw, the same flaw. I would recommend to all those who decide in the Government on the texts of laws to pay great attention to dialogue, especially in the area of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you. Mag. Richter, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much. When I listened to this debate, I said I had something else to say for myself. I don't know if we're going to see this movie or not in the National Assembly when we talk about film being so important, it's so big a tool, it's creativity and so on. We can only solve this issue once we have reached a political consensus. When we are right, left, middlely decide what the film should be: whether it is art with tradition and whether it is - what I also ask the Government - the content that the Government is supposed to fully support. This is an unprecedented story that we have been talking about for 20 years or at least the last 12 years, as much as I have been following intensively this area. It means that it is creativity, art, which also follows the new technological development, which needs very much attention and very much peace or conditions to be able to live and create. On the other hand, this is indeed a government matter, not least in this bill, but above all in relation to the national cultural programme. In the first from 2004 to 2008, and in the second, it also indicates that the film is a tool to be used by the State as such for its promotion, for its recognition, for its education and education. Last but not least, the film is a pure economic sector, within which we recognize the economic professions, new professions and, finally, new employment. Not to mention partnership with cultural heritage, which may be a re-actor of new products, new stories. When we think about the right and left, what it should be and what it would be, and so on, I don't think we're really going to see for a long time that we're going to think about the film globally, the whole of it, and not just who's going to come to any power or chair and who's finally going to get any funds. Let me mention when the first national programme for culture 2004-2008 was prepared, we carried out a thorough state, analysis, evaluation, reviewed all actors and decided on some starting points and then set targets. The difference between the national programme and the one to which colleagues refer is that it had a very sound financial structure and a basis in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Two years of the first implementation of the programme 2004, 2005 and 2006 – because at the time the previous government had already adopted the budget – they were also such that the film increased by 31 % in 2006. Finally, these funds were also distributed in the budget or in the call for proposals from the Ministry of Culture. But then it started: total conversion, personnel replacements, non-transparent implementation or distribution of funds, there were no calls. In 2007, we record, at the end of the year, there was nothing even known who would get what he would get, how he would get. How should creators work? That's impossible! And that situation was a chaotic state. I'm not going to talk about any names, I'm not going to talk about any specific things, because I think it's completely infertile at this time when we're looking at the future. But the situation is that it needs a real intervention, a law that should serve only as a tool for the future. Of course, I am counting on the sobriety of all of us colleagues here to think seriously, not with a fig in my pocket, so my proposal was also a public presentation of opinions below the urgent need to see what the creators really think in this area, what they do not need, what bothers them, what is necessary in the law, and especially when it comes to mistrust. This, however, touches me most when it comes to distrust of politics and confidence in the Government, which has proposed or adopted a bill that is not supposed to be harmonised. I'm sure that's not the case. Let's let it surprise us. In fact, the actors who have drafted the bill have always been – or individuals whom I see here opposite – involved in events and creation, I can also say film productions, so I believe that there has been some kind of misunderstanding or current disobedience. Therefore, I think it is important that we listen to each other and, on the basis of this, prepare a proposal or correction where it is necessary, with the sole purpose and purpose of creating sufficient conditions for the film to be recognized as creativity, as an art to gain its position among the other arts, to represent this stable funding and very, Minister, I want you to encourage your colleagues, both the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Higher Education and Education, to immediately step forward and propose where the small new centre can be filled, not least from these ministries, because the role of the film is also in these areas. Last but not least, the proposal we're going to make is probably accepted by everyone with the amendments, without a fig in my pocket, as I said, and then I believe that film makers will be able to work. In a situation like that, as a result of the past, he waves at each other, but I see no perspective, no greater success. As I say, the law is a tool with which we search and create conditions, and only as a preparation of good things, with all the players who are committed can this tool serve a good future. But it is probably a time of extremes, because the countries around us have overtaken us after a very big turn, and because of this darkness of Slovenian film, Slovenian films are also rarely seen, they appear not least at festivals and not least, it feels between us and those who like to go to cinemas that like to open Slovenian television or some other, when we watch Slovenian films and there is manko. I am convinced that Radiotelevision Slovenia is not in any kind of blockade or opposition with the Film Centre, and I expect that both institutions will cooperate constructively with the same mission and mission after all: to wet the Slovenians, all of us, through the media, through the film to create images of our lives, lifestyles and that this is not about competition, this is about co-creation, so I do not see any foreign problem that this cooperation would not even develop with the tools that are indicated or shown in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Pelko. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate has shown us all sitting here at this table that a constructive debate on Slovenian film is possible. My purpose or my task today is to present to you in four points where this constructiveness is yet to come to a common result. Today we are dealing, not more than Professor Pirjevec said, only with the solemn mass of the Slovenian language, as the film has been defined for some time, but also with the product that comes to the market, with the product that can bring profit, with the product that makes the stars, with the product that brings the reputation of Slovenia abroad. As a result, it is a key issue for the country to ask what it can and can do about it. This marriage tried to answer both of them. What can be done — a country is not a producer — the country must allow conditions for producers to work — and what they can do, with what incentives. That is why you are absolutely right when you said that today this law is primarily a matter of order and resources. The four short paragraphs of my performance today will be about the current dimension of the public debate, about those key motives that the law brings, a little bit more detail than the minister in five minutes, about correctable evidence, and about some of the persistences of some lawmakers – we will also have to insist on public treatment. When we talk about the dimensions of the public debate – it took one year – and from the three key consultations we have carried out, you will see where they have seen three key elements so that this law can succeed. First we sat down with film producers, with independent producers, then we sat down with authors, with authors who actively cooperated with the material in preparing the material for consultation. For the third time, we even sat physically on the Viba. This is because these are the three key inputs for the drafting of this law: what will be the position of the authors, what will be the partnership with independent producers, and also what will happen to Vibo in this whole trauma. But it was only three of the six input data. The remaining three were a very clear analysis of how other European countries are doing this, how much they can invest and how much they can invest in these areas. The second was an accurate analysis made by the University of Primorsk, Faculty of Management, regarding the substantive and legal analysis of even possible formal frameworks into which we can transform the public fund. The third, which has already been mentioned many times today, reports, unfortunately negative, of the Court of Auditors. From all of this, from three rounds of consultations, this law came from these three inputs. This law, as the Minister has said in a concentrated manner, has five key novelties. Legal status is an agency and not a fund, so the law on the table today is the Law on the Public Agency and not the Film Fund, for two reasons. For the first time, because the fund, as it is, should no longer exist without certain assets, but when the agency was found as a solution, two other options were offered, which so far were simply not on the table when the fund was discussed. The development and control function, as well as what has been quoted very correctly by Mr Germič today, is already part of the Agency's act of depoliticism, apoliticality. This is about legal status. The second part is financial transparency. All key findings of the Court of Auditors are taken into account in this law in a way that requires project audits to require the definition of eligible costs to prohibit the conclusion and continuous addition of annexes, which was one of the main problems of the current operation of the Film Fund; thus contributing to financial transparency. The third key motive of this law would be summed up by two percent: 50:80%. The vast majority of European countries do not go above 50%, but when they do, we recognize specific substantive exceptions and know where the public interest is. And in this law there are as such recognized youth film, children's film, low budget film as one thing also overlooks the real dimensions of Slovenian film production and as difficult films. However, if only we had done so, the statement of independent producers in the public debate would have been justified, "you have taken some of the funds away from us", so it was crucial in this proposal to find other sources of funding. In two attempts so far, in the mandate of Minister Richter, including in the mandate of Minister Simoniti, the debate on Slovenian film has been reduced or, in particular, concentrated on legal form and sources of funding. Therefore, this time the undisputed – and the Office of the Government for Law – and ultimately the overplayed scenario for the first time allows the national public institution RTV to actually implement one of its obligations. Indeed, even so far some of these obligations to achieve quotas for national film production have been ordered but have not been respected. But this time it's with parallelism. Both the laws on the table were able to make this key move. Why? Because today the film simply cannot live its whole life without distribution on television channels, but it happens in cinematographers, on television screens and on other media. With regard to other sources of funding, you will then immediately see in the revisions, the eyewitnesses, where, even from this last stage of discussion, we have learned some things and are prepared, I would say, acknowledged as errors that are yet remediable. The fifth motive, in addition to legal status, financial transparency, the situation of 50:80% and other sources of funding, are the substantive innovations that are essentially the spirit of time. I mentioned earlier attempts to regulate the film with Slovenian law and never came to a realization. In the meantime, the film has digitized itself; in the meantime, the quality of the AGRTF students' films has increased significantly, and in the meantime we have listened too often to the obvious that we are passing through the economic opportunities of film production in Slovenia in co-production with foreigners. This law therefore establishes three obligations for the Slovenian Film Centre: professional, developmental and financial cooperation in the digitisation of cinematographers as a condition that the cinematography, which you know is poor in Slovenia, is simply not well covered by cinematography, is included in this law. Another time. That cooperation with higher education institutions, which materialized mainly in the financing of student films as perhaps the most expensive unit of student work within artistic colleges, which could not survive only with higher education budgets, is in there. This cooperation is determined. And a third. This is like a film commission that is translated into a film world with us or a film commission, like an authority that can market natural resources that can facilitate the work of obtaining documents for foreign co-producers when they come here. A typical example is a story from Narnia, where others served simply because it was not the case. Neither the local community nor the Republic of Slovenia deserved, if not, to bring Slovak co-producers. So here is the opportunity for us to get new funds from outside the budget resources of this new centre. I have also foretold as chapter three of this work, rectifications. We were still sitting with the interested public again this Wednesday, because we felt that – even in this letter, which required the withdrawal of the law at the time – some things are, unfortunately, after a one-year discussion still a matter of misunderstanding or insistence on points that we know we will not get them through, so that we have failed to get them through intersectoral coordination, let alone through the National Assembly. And these three rectifications concern a legitimate warning that sanctions for non-compliance with the agreement or the legal obligations of the television part of the financing are not sufficiently specified. We have prepared this repair. With regard to the representation of the profession in the world, we explained to the speakers how we imagined it. So this level of trust wasn't enough, so we were preparing to make this even more precise. We are talking about the world of an agency in which the Ministry of Culture has the possibility to appoint three after the current composition. We have always argued that there will be professionals, representatives of the profession, publicists, university students, but that, if necessary, we will write it down more accurately. At the same time, there are both companies, representing associations, both authors and producers who already have cities in the world; television, as a key partner in future development, has a place in the world. You can imagine that the government insists on having an expert in the financial field because we can't have another story. And the third thing about Viba's involvement or non-involvement. Viba is a public institution. Viba has its mission to participate in the production of the national film programme and the institution of the national film programme changes from the public fund to the public agency. But cooperation between them does not change anything. And at public hearing, we will spend much more time explaining exactly what comes out of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture and what is the Act on the Establishment of Viba. But if any more precise commitments are needed here, let's write them down, because there are no, I'd say, other plans. But there are three things, and that is the last, if I have enough time left, the last chapter of this performance; three things that we have also insisted on this Wednesday in the talks. We insisted on the VAT issue with a very precise dictatorship, as it is conceived in the article and as it is in the explanatory statement, because it is not only the position of Dursa and the Ministry of Finance, but also because it is in this difference that certain products which the state so subsidises, but also come to the market, create certain incomes and enable producers, when it comes no longer to investment, but a subsidy to achieve certain effects on the market and we simply have to motivate them. By the way, our latest award-winning invitation to tender for the AV Fund at the Ministry of Finance has this dictatorship, it has been built into tender terms and without any difficulty has been recognised and implemented by all those who have run for office. So this is not a new one, it is a strict insistence on the tax legislation of this country. The second question, where the matter is both professional and cultural policy, is the issue of the AV call. Is the fact that he was well processed at the Ministry of Culture, as recognised by the profession, the issue of a well-prepared invitation to tender and a competent commission, or something else? We argue that these two conditions are equally feasible in the newly established agency, but that the on-board planning of film and audiovisual production is easier to plan so that correlations are taken into account between the two. We will therefore insist on this at public hearing; we insist that this transfer take place because the funds will be concentrated, because the autonomy of the various genres and the various expert committees will still be ensured, but this part of production will be planned in a uniform manner. And a third. In your debate, many arguments have already been made, which I would only say today, why Slovenian film does not need a roofing law first, but why it needs order and more resources first. The Slovenian film centre wants to be, as the name says, the center of an audiovisual landscape that is in relation to Vibo, which is in relation to television, which is still talking to the media of cinematographic memory, an archive that enters foreign international associations, but does not dream about it, at least this team at the Ministry not to write a film law, because we also do not have a book law, but we have a book law because we do not have a theatre law, but we have a public interest law. More as we speak of the roof law, you discussed the RTV Act yesterday and we come with the Media Act, which will implement the audiovisual directive. These are all elements of the regulation of the landscape of audiovisual film in Slovenia, but without one unit called the Slovenian Film Centre, which brings order, even this team cannot and must not promise additional and new resources. But when order is established, you can see from our balance sheets for the last two years that it was possible to increase funds on the AV call within the Ministry of Culture because we knew that they would be transparently used. That it was possible in the last rebalancing even to maintain the intact funds of the Film Fund, which was important to us not to reverse this year's call for proposals, but the key shifts and certainly the budgetary frameworks mean the same as us, that is, one fundamental change in budget spending, the key shifts can take place in the coming fiscal years when this basic unit is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. You want to talk, too? It is not customary for more people to represent the position of one proposer, but I do not think anyone will object and I do not see any opposition. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you. In a discussion today with constructive comments and some observations, however, a few more clarifications need to be made, and the Minister, in particular the Minister who loves the film, likes to do so. I think it's true that whenever a movie was going to be arranged, it was supposed to be crazy. I think that today we are facing some pre-urgent landing procedure than in a madhouse, as is evidenced in the end of this debate, which is exemplary and also necessary for us, by the EMTs, who must be able to remedy some of the long-lasting inappropriate situations. I must warn you, today it has been said several times that it has taken time and that the situation is not yet healthy, indeed, the situation is not yet healthy. From here, there may also be quite a few discontents that you have quoted on several occasions today by the competent professional associations, which are under the impression of unstable, still unsecured and healthy climate for film, that whatever happens in this area will threaten them, who are injured somewhere, who are tired and who feel that the best law in the field of the film is the budget, the budget law, the law on the implementation of the budget with nice numbers. This law, which you will be able to supplement further in the National Assembly, is in some ways rich in revenue from extra-budgetary funds, certainly a more stable situation in the field of film. Perhaps some wonder why it does not bring more extra-budgetary resources, why, for example, it does not imitate the Great Britain or any other country that sees the funds for the film within the lottery. But what would anyone else say that the field of lottery in Slovenia is completely regulated and I also mean well-funded funding. Perhaps someone would like extra-budgetary funds as well by taxing on a movie stand — but what would happen? More expensive cinematography, certainly less visits. In addition, those who attend meetings in Brussels and elsewhere, you know that the country will have to help cinematographers today, especially art cinematography, not only in the way it works now that it helps them not to literally die in the middle of urban and other centres, but because cinematographers, not only those with cinematographic smells, will all gradually lose projectors and will install digital systems that cost. Today, Europe is working on how to help these cinemas not to close their doors and not just open their doors to these colossal colossal centres. I would like to reply to Ambassador Silva Montenegro that the Ministry of Culture has, in the light of the facts and time we are living, like other ministries, had to contribute its tax in the balance, but did not resort to the means for film. We have not touched this, even though it is a lot of itch, thinking that they should share the fate of everyone else, where we have also opened contracts for 10,000 euros, that we have contributed the necessary 10 million, which should also consolidate our finances and not throw us into the Greek country's script. However, in the past, and this was the first act of 2009 and immediately after the 2008 elections, the legal provision that spoke of participation in the development of audiovisual media was corrected in such a way that it came into life but not overlooked. We know that in the past only partially or almost a third of the money has been provided for audiovisual production, which, we know, is a relapse or some necessity that is even determined by the European Directive, while our country has not seen it. As a result, we received 40 films with such a lift, which strengthened production and also moved the lives of filmmakers. This is what my predecessors who lived, I repeat, did not notice during the period of fat cows. And as I say, we immediately increased the funds by a million euros, even though at the time of trying to milk a very, very dry cow. You've asked me a lot of questions about what's going on, whether it's even working. It was even said that nothing was done. I must point out that production is under way. In 2009 and 2010, many films were opened, from feature-length films such as Piran – Pirano, Heavy Sky, State of Shock, Archeo, Father, Circus Fantasticus, We go our own way, some are co-production, short films, from the Inhearsal War, Virgin Death Dance, Visits, Circus Columbia and so on. As you can see, I really don't design a film program, in recent years we've been working on the Minister's decision to make movies, and I need to read what the Film Fund sets and plans. The funds aren't that small either. We are talking about 4 million 566 thousand 437 euros, as much as one subduer, like Cankar's home, when it needs to be refreshed to ensure normal production for all of us and for sightseeing. However, there are other means that need to be taken into account as additional funds, which then reach around €8 million, because we know that in the area of cinema, not only the area of filming and production, but also the assistance and purchase of film projects or films, art network, also the financing of the public agency Viba film and programmes for audiovisual media, Slovenian cinemas, and the end of the film festival in Cankarje home, which reaches around €126,000. But I am pleased that in this year, as I say, you are not dealing with the excesses we have been given in the past, such as the arbitrary closure of the Cinema Hall or the door of a cinematographer who has taken away people's opportunity to participate in film projects and so on. And that we are trying to come up with a proposal that I think has its perspectives for creating a better base in the field of Slovenian film. And I believe that the creators with whom we have had further discussions will listen, even after the protest letters have sent you and realized that there are a lot of noises, misunderstandings or sufficient in-depth into the law itself, which, I say, is simple, is effective, is operational, but especially apolitical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. This is an exhaustive list of debaters, but since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask the Members and Members present, does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour, within the framework of the votes. That's 12:20. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 12.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u58	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - Re-decision on the Law on the participation of workers in profits. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. 71 Members and Members attended, 39 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment in our parliamentary group. We gave a few reasons yesterday. Let me repeat some things quickly. Indeed, in view of the developments on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when we asked for an information officer's position, and when the collection of e-mail addresses and phone numbers could be misused, we proposed that these data should be deleted. The information authority itself says that the operator, in this case Margento, does not need this information. What is a problem for us and what we have said is that, for example, the Urban Card costs 2 euros and the student diet card costs 15 euros. So the students are obviously the ones with the money and could buy a much more expensive, 7 times more expensive card. The ministry said yesterday that it cared for the students, although it was the responsibility of the student organisation, which was the one who also made the choice of the contractor, that we could agree with, but it is the ministry that controls the event. We have proposed twice in our Group that an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs be convened on this subject. This proposal has been rejected on both occasions. And it will be difficult to convince us that all things are clear and transparent and that everything is fine and that we do not need this extraordinary session. We still think that the choice of the contractor, which in this case Margento, who has had profits or turnover between thousands and 25,000 euros in recent years, would be subject to the law to earn 350 000 euros a year. Any transaction that will occur and will be paid by the students will receive 7 cents by Margento, a subsidiary of Ultre, co-owner of Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education. This is €350,000 at the end of the year. We have even an investigative committee in the National Assembly on these matters, and we would suggest that we reconsider whether such a law is necessary. The government and the Ministry themselves have not found that the law would need to be amended, but it is being submitted by the State Council, the state councilor Drago Jura, who is also linked to certain matters and was also on his own in a commission that made a selection of the contractor and so on. I hope that because we have a secretary of state from the judiciary here and someone else, that some authorities who are persecuting crimes in this country will die because we can only determine political responsibility in the investigative commissions and others have to find out criminally. I will support the amendment and we will support it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. I'm correcting Article 4.a. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thanks again. We will vote against this law. We were clear in the debate, but if everything is wrong and you file a complaint, it's a real application. The application was quite something, and it would be fair to wait for the authorities that made the decision or who received it to give their opinion. The choice itself took place at the time of the criminal prosecution of the anti-corruption commission. For us things remain quite controversial and we will insist on the matter being investigated. I hope that we will finally also see an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because our request has been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so you can't tell us anything about this. I would suggest, and because we like to say mostly that things must be transparent, it is clear that we would also wait for the ministry's answers. I asked the minister how the system, which has already been experimentally introduced in the area of the University of the Sea, works, so that it is paid by telephone. According to field data, the system has already collapsed or been blocked several times. I don't know why we have to support this in the National Assembly. It is necessary to see whether things are done in the way they should be, or not. Because we're transferring this to all students at the end of the month. I expect that the ministry will be defined to be seven times or eight times more expensive than Urbana or something like that. But it's a similar card. Apparently, students in this country have the most money and can pay the most expensive. As we say, we will vote against the proposed law and I suggest that you do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u62	Dejan Levanič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We social democrats are inclined to the idea that this law brings, that is, to the electronicisation of student diet, because we want to get food as easily as possible, to buy student vouchers so that there is no abuse and that these matters will finally be settled, as we wrote in 2007, when we have also regulated them. However, even at the beginning we were not inclined to serve at the expense of students to collect any concessions from student vouchers. And since we also want the Social Democrats to remove all concerns, we will not support the law. In the future, we want this responsibility to be assumed by the Government, or the competent ministry, and to draw up an appropriate law and put it into the procedure of the National Assembly. The Group of Social Democrats will not support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group shall be given by Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. For the last time in the debate on this point, and also in the opinion of the Group of Members, we have stated that we are aware that certain things need to be changed in this area and that some things in these amendments to the law are also well prepared and would certainly be suitable for adoption if there were no such matters, where we have clearly said no, so collecting some personal data, mobile phone numbers, e-mails and so on. These are certainly things that are extremely sensitive and also in Slovenia to happiness are also well arranged. For this reason, I have already requested that we reject these amendments to the law and that the Government prepare a more appropriate bill, without the use of different lobbies and institutions, and at the end of the State Council, to propose a change of law, but this is an extremely important matter to be taken into account by the Ministry or Government and to prepare an appropriate proposal. At that time, of course, we will be happy and needy to support this newly prepared law. As it is said, many solutions are good in this law on student diet, especially in those parts of control, but we cannot accept these most problematic issues in the parliamentary group, we cannot agree, and we will therefore vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 59. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 59.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products is suitable for further consideration. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on state subsidies for the purchase of more environmentally friendly passenger motor vehicles. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on state subsidies for the purchase of more environmentally friendly motor vehicles is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS delegation shall be given by Ivan Grill [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we always support constructive laws, and this is also one of those that we consider to be constructive and, above all, contributes to better regulation of our environment. We would like to point out here that, a year ago, we had a law with the same content in the procedure, which was rejected by the motioners, with exactly the same content, where there was actually a lack of readiness and some ideological belief that what the opposition is proposing should not be confirmed. I must say that such a law, as is now proposed primarily by members of the coalition, is substantially worse prepared, less appropriate than ours. However, the idea is appropriate, good and I believe that if it is confirmed, it can be improved through the amendments so much that it will contribute to the possibility of more favourable purchases of more environmentally acceptable cars in Slovenia, and we will respond ourselves to the fact that we will have fewer such cars polluting our environment. We will see if this support will also be from the coalition. In case there's no support, we'll try to wait for the system law that the government says is preparing. As I said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support these laws, although we do not believe that they will receive sufficient support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u68	Please, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u70	Just a moment, Mr. Znidarsich. Does any other group want to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I will support this law myself, because the solutions go in the direction of thinking about an environment that is degraded and for which we must make decisions in order to make a substantial reduction in harmful gas emissions in at least a longer period of time. I must say that the cost that may arise as a result of this law will continue to be a far better investment of this country than, say, in TE 6, which will continue to produce harmful emissions and expensive energy. That is why I believe that this is a better solution, even if we should take the credit to subsidise the purchase of cheaper cars that trigger smaller emissions. I think that the idea is good enough to support it and as the SDS party thinks, I believe that we will prepare this law in a form that will be acceptable to most present and that the matter will succeed and that we will take one step forward in the direction of protecting our environment. He has my support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Radovan Žerjav [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! I will vote against this law. I'm wondering about priorities. I believe that these funds, which will be used in this case for the purchase of organic cars, could also be used for ecological projects in the economy, to promote ecological investments in the economy, which would, by the way, in addition to acting environmentally friendly, also add value to the Slovenian economy and economic growth. I believe that certainly such subsidies for these purposes cannot be the priority of the Republic of Slovenia in order to be a priority of any other kind. First of all, the question of how we will promote Slovenian economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Breda Roast [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u75	It's an honor, I'm not a master yet, but I do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u76	Okay, it's Friday. There's something else going on this afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u77	Don't waste too much time. I would like to say that I will not support this marriage for two essential reasons. One reason is that this law is built on wrong assumptions. It is assumed that the subsidy for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles saves or reduces emissions. Electric cars do not reduce emissions or reduce them only from that part of electricity produced by environmentally friendly power plants. So this part's over. The electricity that fills the batteries of these cars also comes from the thermal power plants, also comes from the nuclear power plant, so the big question is what is the point of subsidising the production of cars produced outside Slovenia, not creating jobs in us, but creating jobs abroad. It's just the profits of the people who deliver these cars. Well done, but I don't think that makes any sense. With this law, we devote taxes and other taxes to significantly less efficient emission reductions, such as the promotion of efficient energy use in the form of accelerated development of public passenger transport, for example, including incentives for the purchase of environmentally friendly public transport facilities, for energy-efficient construction and energy rehabilitation of public and private buildings. The crisis of the automotive industry has calmed down and let the same one invest in the development of its own [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the product and not our money. I insist on the view that the energy balance and hence the environmental balance of this law are negative, so I do not want to support the law and I suggest that everyone else thinks about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u78	Since there's still a desire to explain my voice, I'm going to apply. In the meantime, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate has been concluded and that it is really just about explaining your vote, not more about the debates that lasted three hours on this law. Thank you. Dr. Luke Yuri has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I will not waste my time saying that I support the law, given that I am one of the candidates. Some doubts were also heard in the debate, some of which may have been slightly less justified, which have been brought into one of the elements of the law. This law provides for a number of measures, from subsidising the purchase of electric vehicles to lower-mission vehicles, to installing particulate filters, to subsidising the installation of compressed petroleum gas systems. All of this reduces emissions. I think that this, however, can, even in the light of the debate, be the basis for the second reading of that part of the concerns, which are justified precisely by how this law will be implemented procedurally, how we will impose restrictions on all of this in order to resolve it. The Office of the Government for Climate Change and the Ministry of Environment and Space support this law because they find that it has a good impact on the environment after all, and, to be honest, indirectly has a positive impact on the Slovenian economy. Some manufacturers in Slovenia are struggling to join the network of future production of electric vehicles, from Revoz to other companies producing electronic components. In the opinion of those working in this field, these subsidies can also contribute to this. I am very pleased with the reasoned, articulated debate that has been held in these days, and I hope that those who have any further doubts may, however, only by abstaining, will allow these doubts to be clarified in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! I'm going to vote against this law myself because it's just bad. I will also vote against it for two reasons. One must be the thought that some have already expressed, the use of electricity or electric cars and electricity from TES. If we compare it, we'll see what we've actually gained. Probably lost more than won. Another reason is that it gives some of the concerns of some lobbying individuals who once owned some companies that dealt with some electric motors, that it was for some individual people who could also solve their financial problems through these lobbyings. As the Prime Minister has already said, "with God's wages cannot come through." While I am glad that the previous law on student nutrition did not give Minister Golobic the opportunity to solve his financial problems. And by rejecting this, four and a half million would prefer to use it for what is more important in this country. But there are a lot of things like that, and I don't really know what's not where we don't need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 38, for 31. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Environment and Space as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I'm sorry. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr Magajna has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all in attendance! In the debate, I had many reservations about this law. Here in Parliament we sit Members of various professions, different educations, and ministers are different educations. However, when I consulted with lawyers, neither of them knew what sui generis means, the status, the new status of autonomous institutions that we introduce into our system and will probably be transferred to other public institutions when this law was passed. If I am disturbed by this law, the second point of Article 5 is that of the proportion to which RTV will carry out in the field of culture, artistic programmes, information, documentary and educational content. They're supposed to be the majority of them. What does most mean - 50%. And for this commercial market activity, awards will even be paid to regular income recipients on the basis of the funds obtained from the public procurement, on the basis of equipment which is public, based on the capacity that is public. This part will, unfortunately, spill over, irrespective of the restrictions laid down in Article 46, even in private pockets. And I object to this concept. The transfer of public funds into private pockets, otherwise very clever, but in a dictatorship, if we look at the exact law, this will also be possible. I will therefore vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u84	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Time probably does not allow a person to explain the whole matter in depth, but I will limit myself to just two contentious matters in this law, which is why we have to vote against it. The first is the so-called third national programme, TV Slovenia 3, which the law nicely leaves in Article 56, both for "painting". It means he's leaving her on some hookup over there on Tomsich's street or Beethoven's street, but whoever he wants to pick up, that's about what the marriage says. This does not formally end transfers on the third programme, but informally it is very clear that TV Slovenia 3 can never again achieve the Slovenian space for Slovenian citizens and citizens as it now reaches. Time is limited. It's just civil society. We also have a huge number of civil society representatives in this House, so something has to be said. The law says that it will depoliticize this world of the institution, that politics should withdraw, we have heard such explanations, and that we will leave it to civil society. Look, I'm going to explain myself to Slovenian civil society, invent one case, which is a hypothetical case, and the people who perform in this case are also fictional. In 2013, an independent international institution is coming to Slovenia to study media freedom. It is accepted by the President of the Red Cross of Slovenia, who represents the President of the Council of the Institute in this institution, and this is Mr Miran Potrč. This is civil society in 2013. It's a very possible situation. This is a civil society in Slovenia. Don't "barbat" me! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. . Alice Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the law for several reasons. The first is that it would only make sense to adopt the media law first, not just us, but also many others, and then to continue with the RTV law. It has already been mentioned that we do not know what will be born of this law, that it will be organised in half by the law on institutions, in half companies, and that it will be public and private or commercial, and I apologize for the fact that we have continued to listen to the allegations and to a whole lot of comments from the coalition in the previous term. We don't know what's going to happen to advertising, how it's going to be financed, a whole bunch of things are unclear here. The secretary said yesterday that when there's too many of those who command, there's a lot of fog, and we don't know who's responsible for anything. This is exactly the kind of fog they propose by tri-membering it into a five-member one. So you'll be less certain who's responsible for what and who's responsible for what, unlike the world that we're reducing from 29 members first to 11, well, now according to proposal 15. And you write down in the law that the members of the Council must carry out their work independently and impartially and must take care solely of the interests of RTV Slovenia, not of the public from which they are elected. It's quite confused with logic and the purpose for which the world even exists. In short, I will vote against it. Perhaps even more about the parliamentary channel, which will pass through the proposal to the National Assembly. In article 56, you wrote, "The National Assembly may be able to inform the public of its work." Of course, if "may" is said, you don't have to, which means it probably won't. So you could avoid the word "may" in the law because experience shows that nothing happens if someone "may" but "must". I'll go against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Miran Potč has an explanation of his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Given the uncertainties and differences in views, I would like to repeat my statement yesterday. I will vote in favour, assuming that the third parliamentary channel will be maintained, that it will remain meaningful in the content it is today, that it will be regulated by journalists and that it will be possible for as much of Parliament as possible and anyone else who belongs to a wider range of parliamentary work to present it in an corrective, objective way to citizens and citizens. But if you and when they don't want this program, they'll tell, not me. Another time. I will be very happy, and I will always think that they will imagine what someone is, who have chosen him, not any individual from the opposite political option. Such an attitude is not only incorrect, but it shows a misunderstanding of the situation of equality between people and democracy. And I'm not surprised if it's expressed by the people who expressed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to explain myself why I can't support the law. There are many reasons, but in these two minutes, as far as I can see, I will say the main reason which is extremely important for the public interest. In fact, it is a state-of-the-art transformation of the public institution into a commercial organisation, RTV Slovenia. Commercial work under this law can be almost half of all activities carried out by this public institution. At the same time, this activity, i.e. the activity of the public RTV agency, will be coerced by taxpayers from their own resources, from their own pockets. Publicly, state property would be transferred under this law to this financial autonomous commercial organisation, while members of the administration, the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia and employees could share profits from commercial activities financed from public funds. This would motivate us to carry out commercial activities, not those of public interest. As a result, the adoption of the law would have bad consequences and there would be some kind of precedent for other public institutions, which we know are also interested in commercialising them and then eventually privatising them, which would then have a bad impact on other areas, health, education and social and health security of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 33. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Point of the agenda, this is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the conditions of accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Convention on the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Slovenia has entered a rich club or, if you like, among the elite countries. The vote on the first item immediately showed that this country is clearly a supporter of capitalism and capitalism. Entrance to the OECD, then to the elite, is expensive. This entry will cost us 2.4 million euros, increased by the projected number of OECD budget coordination, which amounts to 3% per year or about 100,000 euros per year, which means that we will give two and a half million euros a year peacefully to buy a book of some neoliberal recipes, how to do in economic development, which domestic economists also know very well. Some of them. Slovenia undertakes, inter alia, to respect the international obligations it will enter into in the OECD Accession Treaty on the OECD Code of Liberalisation in cases where its domestic legislation is in conflict with such obligations. This will confirm the established principle of the primacy of obligations under international contracts in the Republic of Slovenia. It means that the State of the Republic of Slovenia will reject its own laws that we have adopted here so that it can be in the elite of rich countries. We are sitting here, personally for 10 years, adopting laws to be rejected by Slovenia, because the OECD will say otherwise, for two whole half a million euros a year. Remember, every year! With all the words you've been saying today, how poor our workers are, how hard money is in this country – we'll get a prescription book to do. What we already know. The Slovenian national party will not participate in this story, not at all, and we are absolutely against it. It's useless to pay expensive membership fees at a golf club if we have no idea what golf is or can't play it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly were not possible to be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Czech Republic on the support and protection of investments and on its cessation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We vote. 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY – This is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Right to Organise and Procedures for the Determination of Conditions of Employment in the Public Sector (Moded Convention No. 151. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - This is on the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Community and its member states on one side and the Republic of South Africa on the other side on the amendment of the Agreement on Trade, Development and Cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION ON ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROTOCOL No. 1 and 2 H of the Convention. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother-to-worker, who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. DOCTURE OF THE DAY’S LINE — IT IS AN OfficialLY CERTIFICATED TEXT OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and approved by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The approved text of the Income Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Advocate General, the request by the District Court in Trebnje for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Grosuplje and the notification by the District Court in Cyprus of a criminal action brought against a Member of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter of 5 May 2010, the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, informed the Council that the President of the Constitutional Court had informed him that he was a judge of the Constitutional Court. Marija Krisper Kramberger submitted an early resolution request on 4 May 2010. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve the Magi. Marija Krisper Kramberger, acting as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 13 September 2010. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Advocate General. The proposal for appointment was tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body of the Member State which submitted a proposal for a decision in writing to the assembly. For further explanation of the bill and for appointment, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u95	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The current Advocate General shall expire on 15 July. As a result, the Ministry of Justice has issued a call for the post of Advocate General in accordance with the law. This invitation was opened by four candidates. As you are aware, the Minister of Justice on all four candidates has delivered a positive opinion and has proposed to the Government that one of them propose to the National Assembly for appointment. The government unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly the appointment of Dr. Boštjan Tratar. It was decided by the Government on the basis of his CV and professional references. The nominated candidate is a doctor of legal science. He has so far been employed in important positions at the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Court, and in recent years he has served as an assistant now to the state's attorney. The government has also positively defined the programme by the candidate representative [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u96	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u97	He highlighted the desire to increase the role of state defence in the phase ahead of the start of judicial proceedings, stressed the specialisation of state defenders, which should have a positive impact on the quality of their work, strive for better and more effective cooperation between the authorities represented by the defence before and after the proceedings, strive for greater information on the business of the defence and seek to increase transparency in the business of the defence with better contacts with the media and other public. [[...]] For all of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed a candidate to this high assembly for confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, members of the Government! I will rely more on the fact that, while the procedure has been properly carried out, four candidates have been reported, including the general public defender, according to my conduct. In the Group of Members, we cannot help but feel that the current or former President-in-Office of the State Advocate-General has been a disruptive article in some of the proceedings that have taken place in recent years, particularly last year. In particular, I will highlight the legislatively questionable decisions on the return of the Bulmastifs. And obviously his mandate should not be extended to enable him to carry out his work normally, as he wanted to do in these procedures, and the government has not given him, I will say, at home, breathe. That is why I also made my statement on behalf of the Group of Members. We have received Dr. Boštjan Tratar's proposal and we will decide in the parliamentary group each for ourselves, given the knowledge of the candidate. In most cases, we have no comments on his work, but there are some things that he could do differently in his work so far. The Group of Members will decide, or each individual, according to his or her knowledge. I regret, however, that the Attorney-General of State has been eliminated, in particular, due to certain procedures which he has conducted in contravention of the wishes of certain ministers and other people for ministries, particularly in these suspicious procedures of returning the Bulmastifs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Jože Tanko [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! At the beginning of the mandate, the so-called new human resources paradigm was presented, when the Prime Minister said that everything else would take place in this mandate when it had the advantage of the profession over political preferences. For many areas, cash registers have been set up, completely independent from politics, even though they have been called policy. More specifically, the part of the policy that is in power and cash registers should assess the quality of the candidates applied for. Despite all this independence, the key systems do not work. The President of the Government of Pahor personally addressed problems on Slovenian railways, in the Clinical Centre, Dars, Kobilier Lipica and elsewhere. The railways already have synergistic effects, i.e. waiting types and waiting for work. Dars also started talking about them, but they're different species. The so-called Kosovo Commission has already issued an opinion setting out something about special privileges, more specifically on suspected corrupt practices. The important dilemma of Lipice is the number of holes in the golf course, the prime minister is to increase to 18, and for Minister Shirca there are nine too many. However, not all human resources procedures are conducted through cash registers. The appointment of a state's attorney is one of those. It is not known how Pahor's government formulates personnel proposals, but at least two proposals from the Government, the appointment of the Exercise as a member of the European Court of Auditors and Tratar as a Advocate General, have a very similar basis. Dnevnik.si published on 16 April this year the contribution of Ranka Ivelje entitled Copy, Paste, Earnings. In his book, the Attorney General contributed only a foreword and a real indicator. The text below states that Dr. Boštjan Tratar, the Government, proposes him as the Attorney General and we will decide on him in a few moments, published in his book of new laws on the administrative dispute an important part of the text written by Dr. Erik Kerševan, professor at the Faculty of Law without stating it. Dr. Kersevan and Dr. Rajko Pirnat responded. In addition, it is worth recalling that Dr Tratar was responsible for bankruptcy proceedings after the internal annual timetable of the State Defence Office, i.e. for public-interest complaints in these proceedings. According to the information we have at our disposal, the State's defence, when the State was a creditor, has not complained in many cases. In the case of Videm-Krško, Dr. Tratar was also personally in charge, and he did not complain in this proceedings. What happened with bankruptcy and bankruptcy managers, we had the opportunity to hear from the Internal Policy Committee. Among other things, the fact that one of the bankruptcyists was awarded twice for one bankruptcy procedure. And this is about what's wrong with protecting the law and the public interest. However, by appointing Dr. Tratar, he withdraws from the position of so far's Attorney General, who dared to ask the Government for a special mandate to represent the public interest in the case of Bulmastif. This special mandate was requested by the Administrative Court, the Judge-Rapporteur of this Court was the brother of the Justice Minister in this case. We know that the government has missed the return of the dogs, and the consequences are known. Tragic as well as human resources. Mr Cvikl, Secretary-General of the Government, has been sent to the European Court of Auditors, Minister Pogačnik has resigned and Mr Bembič will no longer be at the head of the defence. And in this way, the Bulmastif affair will end slowly. We will not support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Boštjan Tratar as Advocate General for six years. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to a hearing on the request of the District Court in Trebnje for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Grosuplje. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Trebnje for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the National Assembly with a proposal for a decision. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the District Court in Trebnje, support. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By 99/2008, of 20 July 2016 3. 2009 to decide on a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Grosupljem Franc Krivec for a criminal offence under Article 170, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, does not grant immunity to the judge of the District Court in Grosuplje Franc Krivec and to allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Cyprus concerning a private action brought against a Member of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Koper. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the National Assembly with a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Cyprus, supported by: No 2 X 28452/10, X 198/10 of 18. 5. 2010 on the proposal to decide on the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Srečko Friends, on the basis of the reported services of 57 offences of regret under Article 158/1 KZ1 and on the offence of regret under Article 158(1) and (2) KZ1 does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Srečko Friends and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 217 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Triglav National Park, under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 15. 5. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there would be no amendments to the proposal at that meeting. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group shall be given by Daniel Krivec, followed by DeSUS and SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It has been time for the Triglav National Park and the Institute of Triglav National Park to set up a suitable legal framework, as the law so far was based on a system of self-government and did not provide sufficient grounds for action and for the protection of the area. During the ten-year period, three public debates took place, there was a public decomposition in each of the laws introduced, and I think that there have been good proposals through all of the debates held in the areas covered by the Triglav National Park, and there are appropriate legal frameworks. That is why I think that the law now before us must be supported to give everyone living in this park as well as the institution the opportunity to meet the new challenges successfully. Above all, the advantage and new added value of this law is that it also speaks of development work. The current law has defined only nature protection, nature protection tasks, and the new law also offers development opportunities that are important and will bring added value to this area. That is why I want those who will enforce this law to read it properly, so that there will be no complications in interpreting individual articles, which is mainly the case with laws that touch the environment. And I would really like to see a management plan, which is an additional basis for operationally all the tasks that this law brings, to be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u104	The explanation of vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group shall be given by Joško Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u105	In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will be happy to support this law in its entirety because we find that now shared obligations and responsibilities are finally settled and people will finally be able to make better and better use of their space for the purpose that this law also prescribes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the LDS Group shall be mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll support the law at the LDS. We are glad that time has matured, and since that so-called "Wolf Law" there has been a lot of water. It is essential, however, that 70% of the solutions that were not acceptable at the time, now based on arguments, broad public debates, excellent dialogue led by the Ministry, come up with acceptable solutions that satisfy everyone today. The Triglav National Park with this law will not be a reservation for visitors from home and abroad to watch locals continue to walk in Irharics and Cokes, but it is a modern law that enables environmental protection on the one hand, and on the other hand development and what we all want: that the locals stay there to work and develop. I think it's about the important content that we've come up with together. Of course, various dilemmas are open. Such a law could be different in some way, perhaps more favoured by naturalists, perhaps more by the locals, but the first management plan and the first years of implementation will show what is in terms of the mutual satisfaction of all. In the years to come, however, we can further improve and upgrade the law. The law provides adequate protection and, above all, life, and it is good and weighed as far as our voices in support are concerned, for after 30 years it was time for change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. On behalf of the delegation? Then I'm asking for an application because there's more wishes and more hands are up. The explanation for the vote is Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would only point out that in the past mandates we have participated in many discussions on the areas of the Triglav National Park and that, at that time, it has often seemed impossible to connect on one hand the aspirations and demands of the inhabitants, on the other hand the demands of naturalists and also general aspirations for the development and preservation of nature. I am sure that this law has managed to achieve something that has often seemed impossible. For this reason, I am very pleased to be able to support this law today, so that it can continue to work better than it has been so far and proud of us all who have a special attitude towards this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u110	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Matthew Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u111	Opinions on how the applicants managed to capture this difficult balance between the protection of the natural environment on the one hand and the interests of the developing population on the other are shared. Nature cannot speak and give an opinion on this law. When nature speaks, it usually screams.And then we know that the consequences of such reactions of nature can be severe. I am not saying that the new law on Triglav National Park will have some drastic consequences. But it certainly changes this balance so far, which has undoubtedly been more on the natural side than on the population side and also the interest, the legitimate interest of local communities, to improve the quality of life in their environment through development. What convinces me that I will also abstain from this law in the third reading is quite strong, but a weak voice from many NGOs that have renounced the support of this law. Although some would like to refer to a broad public debate, this debate was indeed broad, but unfortunately in this broad public debate the proponents and those most interested in nature protection, and these are undoubtedly professional and engaged NGOs, unfortunately they have not come together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has an explanation of his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'd be happy to support the Triglav National Park Act. After 14 long years of desire, needs, demands and work, he came to the National Assembly today where we can decide about the Triglav National Park. I am sure that most Members and Members will follow the will and desire of people to support this law today. Despite the 60 bans, the local population still hopes that this law will be adopted, for the 1981 law is unacceptable today. In doing so, I would like to thank all the people who have been engaged for the past 14 years, listening, coordinating and bringing the law together as it is. I think marriage is good, and if it keeps young families at home, then the marriage has achieved its purpose. Thank you very much to all the preparers and to you, ladies and gentlemen, for the vote of the Triglav National Park Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Brada Pecan has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law, but I must say that with much less joy than when we first dealt with the law on the Committee on Environment and Space. In the second reading, we then accepted the amendments that later because of the very, I will use the gentle expression, the unusual methods of lobbying in the National Assembly there has been the defamation of at least one article, which has led to the fact that we have something written in this law that is completely impractical. And secondly, that we have brought into law something that is totally contrary to the interests of nature protection, not the naturalists. That is why this drop of bitterness came along in today's vote. I think that the adoption of this law is more important than how I feel about the individual changes that have taken place. I am sad because of them, but I think it is more important that the Triglav National Park Act has gone through all the tortures that have also occurred to people who have worked intensively and very deeply at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, listened to a number of insults and a number of unjust judgments, but I hope that in the next 20 years this law will bring about improvements to the natural environment and at the same time the satisfaction of people living in the Triglav National Park area. That's why, once again, I'm going to vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Since the amendment to Article 22 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the draft law became inconsistent. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 6. 2010, prepared the harmonisation amendment to Article 93, which you received on the bench. I am opening a debate on the harmonisation amendment. Do Members and Members want the word? I'm guessing they don't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The law is certainly good in many segments, especially in that it unites with the Higher Court in Ljubljana. But unfortunately, look, we're on the committee, and later in the National Assembly, we proposed a very practical amendment. On the basis of what happened in Elan, the bankruptcy of Elan, where the bankruptcy manager hired his own company for administrative and technical business and paid EUR 172.000 in his own pocket, we know that, we proposed an amendment in which we said that the bankruptcy manager could not do business with a company where the owner himself or his immediate family members were. We expected that, because of such a situation in the sky, the money seized at the expense of those who already have nothing, who get 560 euros or nothing, if they go bankrupt, very often will be the ones who rely most on workers who rely on solidarity with workers and so on. That didn't happen. I looked at the screen twice because I thought I did something wrong myself. But you rejected this amendment. He has been rejected, which is unacceptable, and we have no moral right on this side to uphold such a law. So we'll vote against it. And then there's something else that needs to be said. In addition to the cartel of notaries, lawyers, and so forth, the coalition apparently created a new cartel called the cartel of bankruptcy managers. She allowed them to assemble, set up a so-called chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the doctors have shown up, and we're talking about thousands of members of doctors, what the chambers mean. The Chambers are intended to protect the interests of members or nothing else. In our own words, they defend and protect each other, and they cover their mistakes and so on. Thousands of doctors. What about here? We say that Slovenia has about 90 bankruptcy managers, of which one bus operates. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little more than half this hall. Everyone knows each other. So what are they gonna do? They will protect their interests, and to a large extent they will be disciplined. Young people would say, "Don't give me a hard time." But if you support it, support it, we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 22. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 18th meeting of the assembly and wish you a pleasant afternoon.
