ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Janez Ribič, Ljubo Germič and Milan Gumzar. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act deals with some issues that have recently been shown to be poorly regulated or inadequately regulated. There is no provision for greater intervention in the substance of taxation alone. If I briefly list the essential points of the amendment of the law, then the first point is the one relating to the different or complementary regulation of the position of artists, non-resident athletes. The matter is also linked to the European Commission's warning in this area on the discriminatory treatment of such taxable persons. The second substance of the amendments concerns taxation of payments for farming in a restricted area where the regulation thus far provided that subsidies under this Title were also taxed, and now we exclude these subsidies from taxation. The third amendment concerns the taxation of Members of the European Parliament. A change or supplementation of the marriage solution was necessary due to the changed method of financing these Members. The next point we open up in the law relates to the taxation of interest earned by individuals from the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia and is linked to the volatile situation of the State budget. The following amendment refers to the way in which daily cross-border migrants are taxed, where we regulate the matter in such a way that we provide them with a special tax relief of €7,000 and thus improve their social situation. In addition, some minor technical corrections are included in the law. At the moment, a change in income in the part relating to minimum wage arrangements has not yet been included. You will soon have another amendment in this area. I propose that you support the law, even though there have been no excessive concerns about an individual solution in the discussions so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 13th meeting, on 14. 1. 2010 as a parent labour body was treated as a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which forwarded specific comments to Articles 10, 12, 14, 20 of the legislative proposal. In the context of the supplementary working material, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the State Council presented at a meeting of the non-supporting committee in the first instance of the general position on the inadequacy of any double law allowing special treatment of individual groups of debtors. This is because exceptions needlessly complicate the tax system. Within the deadline of business, the amendment to Article 20 amending the final provision of the legislative proposal was tabled by three parliamentary groups: SD, Zares and LDS. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Government presented key solutions to the text drawn up on the basis of individual issues raised when implementing in practice, either in relation to the self-treatment of certain categories of taxable persons or income received or situations encountered. This regulates the type of taxation relating, among other things, to income from the employment relationship for residents, cross-border labour migrants, payments for farming in restricted areas, Members of the European Parliament, interest on securities, issuer of the Republic of Slovenia, and, inter alia, introduces changes to the conditions of the existing allowance for a maintenance of a full-year schooling child. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, following a brief presentation of the opinion on that amendment to Article 20, raised the issue of the inadmissibility of the solution in view of the time-limit between the implementation of the text the following day following the publication and the envisaged entry into force from 1.1.2010. On the basis of the explanation given by the amendment, it is a matter of introducing a specific transitional provision, focusing on the demonstrated benefits of the debtors, which is linked to the fact that the law will enter into force after 1.1.2010. The solution provides for the application of the text from 1.1.2010 or the beginning of the calendar year, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 4 and 7. At the same time, on this basis, the provisions of paragraph 113 of the fifth and Article 115 in the part relating to the relief for full-year schooling children without the application of the income threshold criterion for smaller own incomes apply to the 2009 income measurement. In this way, there will be no debtors in a less favourable position than the provisions currently in force when calculating their income for 2009. As part of its consideration of the individual articles of the amendment of the three coalition groups, the Committee adopted Article 20. Following the vote on the amendment in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	A nice greeting to all of you! Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary of State, again and again! Article 20 of the Act will not be supported in the Slovenian National Party. Why? In Article 20, which the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out, it is clear that the law, which is not at all yet in force, should apply in retrospect. For us this is unacceptable and, as I have been able to look at the complementary proposal, this change has not taken place. We are also in favour of a transparent, simple and consistent tax system in the Slovenian National Party, which is intended to treat all entities in Slovenia on an equal footing. We estimate that, with exceptions, tax systems are complicated, that the principle of equilibrium applies, when the lower tax burden of certain categories of taxpayers can mean excessive taxation of other categories of taxpayers. In addition, we were disturbed by the following. Point two of the draft law, the Government, the 'objectives, principles and main solutions to the law', states in the introduction that the aim of the bill is to regulate a particular issue, in addition to the aim of the proposal to eliminate the incompatibility of the provisions of the Income-2 Act with the law of the European Community and the Agreement on the European Economic Area, which is, of course, very contrary to the dictatorship on the 5th page of the explanatory note, namely 'Adaptation of regulation to the legal order', where it is clearly stated that the Member States of the European Union are free to set up taxation systems for natural and other persons. In addition, we believe that the defined Articles, notably Articles 10, 12 and 14, do not show the reasons why the applicant would lead to the introduction of a specific personal tax relief, since these solutions are already governed by the Income-2 Act in specific Chapter XI. We also assess and agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the applicant does not state the factual and reasonable reasons for the distinction between taxpayers. In doing so, it recalls paragraphs 12 and 14 of the draft law, which regulates the situation only for the debtors referred to in Article 113, paragraph 5, but not for all beneficiaries of the special tax relief provided for in Article 113. Once again, that element that really bothers us is that a law that is not yet in force cannot at all apply back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members and Secretary of State. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will be proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, although we have some concerns because the law in a certain part of the story is selective. However, when the arguments are put on the table, it can be estimated that there are not many other practical and realistic options. The bill brings updates to the legal instruments, especially those that have proved to be ineffective in practice. Thus, the law introduces solutions in areas that have so far not been adequately regulated by the existing Income Law. In our view, the most important novelties of the law are those relating to tax treatment in the field of education of dependent members, important cross-border residents, including athletes and recipients of agricultural policy payments, but in order to extend residence status, it seems necessary and important to us. We believe that it is good and useful to equalise tax treatment in the area of maintenance members relating to the problem of minor informal works carried out by trained dependent family members. Thus, the proposed law will change the conditions for granting relief for a maintenance of a full-year schooling child, since it will equalise treatment with other maintenance members. To this end, we also welcome the introduction of the income limit, which is a criterion for assessing whether a full-year-old can be considered a dependent family member. The law also solves the problem of cross-border residents as a special personal tax relief is introduced. The problem dates back to the period of the previous government, due to the Government's adopted position of 12 April 2007, after which the amendment to the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property with Austria would only tax their income in Austria. Of course, that was just a word, but unfortunately these commitments were not properly implemented in law. This mistake and the flaw, now we're fixing and we're putting an end to it. The current government is solving this in the same way as the proposed solution addresses the tax situation of all debtors who achieve the income from the employment relationship with a foreign employer as cross-border migrant workers, irrespective of which country they have found employment. It is certainly reaffirmed here that because the right path is the only legal path, that solution encourages those who are bound to respect the law and discourages them from making false incomes. On the other hand, we believe that it is important to note at this point that by resolving the specific tax relief, we are partly beginning the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers, that in the further drafting of legislation we should avoid as much as possible such a way as possible, but we are aware that in practice the proposed solution is the only one that is practically feasible. We also welcome the decision on taxation of non-resident operators and athletes, where the tax base will be established by taking due account of the costs necessary to achieve income in Slovenia, at 25% of the revenue generated. This will allow athletes to be treated more fairly and equally than has been the case so far. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also find it very useful that the status of the resident will extend to natural persons who live outside Slovenia because of their employment in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to an international organisation, as well as to those who live outside Slovenia for the purpose of acting as a Member, for example, in the European Parliament. As already mentioned, we will support other solutions in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, including those relating to the treatment of payments under the measures of the common agricultural policy. They seem to be necessary, logical and meaningful. Despite concerns regarding the use of certain selective solutions, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State! The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which, to a large extent, probably does not fully address and regulates the issue that has arisen with regard to the implementation of the Act in specific areas for taxpayers in Slovenia, as well as the alignment with the acquis of the European Union. Taking into account the European Commission's official reminder regarding the taxation of non-resident operators and athletes and the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a tax base will be established for those not having a business unit in Slovenia in order to take due account of the costs necessary to achieve income in Slovenia, which is 25% of the revenue generated. This area has so far not been adequately regulated. Amendments to the law will recognise a specific tax treatment for income from the employment relationship that residents, cross-border daily or weekly labour migrants achieve by performing work outside Slovenia with a foreign employer. A recognised special personal relief will be €7,000 for these taxpayers. The tax liability on income from employment income received by residents on the basis of work in Austria by the Austrian employer is foreseen to be written off in the past years under the conditions laid down in the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, which we have already adopted in December in the National Assembly, which will, of course, also largely address the problems of these immigrants. The proposed amendment to Article 26(2) will make it clear that the exemption payments also include payments for farming in areas with limited factors and more difficult conditions. In particular, the tax treatment of a Member of the European Parliament will be regulated in the work relating to residence and to their income and the recognition of tax deductions from those incomes paid by the Communities. In the light of the proposed solutions, Members of the European Parliament will make forecasts in Slovenia and pay a difference in income if the tax is taxed on these incomes at Community level less than the income paid by those incomes in Slovenia. In addition, the proposed solution is that of the interest on securities to which the issuer is a Republic of Slovenia, in the case of residents, it is not the calculation and payment of income at the time of payment of the tax deduction, but on the basis of the forecast submitted by the debtor and the non-residents will be exempt from such income. An equivalent tax treatment is also proposed in the deferral of a tax liability for certain withdrawals of capital, namely, the unpaid value of capital to the spouse or the child under the extradition contract is equivalent to that of the spouse or the child under the gift contract. It is also proposed to amend the conditions for the implementation of the allowance for a maintenance of a full-year schooling child. This category of dependent family members introduces an income limit, which is the criterion for assessing whether a full-year schooling child can be considered a dependent family member, as well as other categories of dependent family members, except that the family pension, student work income, scholarships and income of the child are not considered or taken into account, exempt income payments under Articles 22 and 29 of the Act. As we have said, because of all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Once again, thank you for your word, Mr President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contains some key solutions that are important in addressing certain problems. Thus, the proposal makes clear the individual types of payments which, although they represent income or income in the pursuit of agricultural and forestry activities in the event that they are paid in connection with the basic agricultural activity and the basic economic activity, are exempt. Thus, it was decided that payments for the more difficult production situation of so-called OMD payments were considered to be agri-environmental payments, thus exempting them from income, although they were not explicitly mentioned during the exempt income payments. The proposal will also extend the status of resident to natural persons residing outside Slovenia for employment in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to international organisations such as NATO or the UN. In addition, the status of resident shall extend to natural persons residing outside Slovenia for the purpose of acting as a Member of the European Parliament. With regard to interest on securities to which the Republic of Slovenia is a issuer and which are issued under a law governing public finances, an arrangement is laid down whereby, in the case of residents, income is not calculated and paid on payment by way of tax withdrawal, but on the basis of a forecast submitted by the resident debtor, the non-residents will be exempt from such income. Amendments to the law also concern cross-border migrant workers and changes in conditions, the application of relief for a maintenance of a full-year schooling child. While the law does not substantially change the current tax situation or represent a selective approach, some solutions are welcome, and we will therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vila Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act deals with some of the most pressing problems in this area and addresses certain legal solutions that do not comply with European Community law and the Agreement on the European Economic Area. The law also extends the status of residents to persons residing outside Slovenia for employment in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to international organisations. It defines more clearly the individual types of payments which, although they represent income from agricultural or forestry activities, are exempt from income payments. The determination of the type of payments exempt from income payments is directly linked to Council of Europe Regulation 1698 of 2005 on support for rural development and exemption from taxation of approximately 60% of the subsidies. It regulates the taxation of non-resident operators and athletes by recognising the costs of the activities carried out at 25% of the revenue generated, thus responding to a letter from the European Commission last February. It regulates residence status for Members of the European Parliament, who will apply for income from the function of MEP in Slovenia and pay any difference in income here. It regulates the payment of the income from the interest on securities to which the Republic of Slovenia is a issuer for the purposes of financing the State budget, by not calculating and paying the income by way of a tax deduction at the time of payment, but on the basis of a forecast for residents, while the non-residents are exempt from the payment of the income referred to in this Title. It introduces a special tax relief for residents, cross-border labour migrants who gain income from working relationships outside Slovenia and have been in a particularly difficult situation since 2005, when in Slovenia we introduced the concept of taxation of residents after world income and have become taxable also from income generated abroad by a foreign employer. Finally, the law complements the conditions for granting relief to a maintenance full-year schooling child by introducing a income limit for this type of dependent family member as a criterion for assessing whether a schooling child can still be considered a dependent family member by not taking into account certain incomes such as family pension, student work, scholarships, child allowance, subsistence allowance and the like. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Secretary of State, good morning, everyone! Amendments and additions to the Income Act will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party. The purpose of the law ahead of us is, in particular, to regulate the most pressing issue that has arisen with regard to the implementation of the law on specific areas and, of course, to a lesser extent, to comply with the acquis of the European Community. Amendments and additions are relatively extensive and, as already mentioned, also necessary. Let me first point out the definition of a number of exempt payments, we are talking about so-called agricultural subsidies. These changes are recorded in Article 26, income related to agricultural and forestry activities where income will not be paid. And here are the 8 indents listed, from the income from neighbourhood aid in agricultural holdings, the income from agricultural and forestry payments, then payments from agricultural policy measures made in respect of long-term investments, payments on the basis of property damage insurance in relation to the conduct of basic agricultural activities, cash aid received by individuals due to natural or other accidents, income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities provided for in Article 69 of this Law, then payments for the management of farm bookkeeping and will also be exempt from taxes on the income of farm households using up to 40 bee trees. If I remind you, we have proposed exactly the same solutions for Members and Members or Members of the Slovenian People's Party two months ago, but unfortunately for prestigious reasons, the ruling coalition has not supported this. I hope this time it will be different, because you are your own proponents. Furthermore, the proposal also adequately lays down the conditions for the application of allowances for the maintenance of a full-year schooling child. This also shows that we do not have a regulated scholarship policy in our country. This amendment introduces an income limit which is a criterion for assessing whether children in education can be considered a dependent family member. This solves many of the problems of recognising the relief for the maintenance of a schooling child and the dilemmas that have arisen in the past also because of the school system. When a child is educated, gets some education, a university degree and so on, and then we send him to other schools, just because there is no job in that area. The income from the employment relationship achieved by the resident through employment outside Slovenia has been taxed in Slovenia in accordance with the concept of global income since 2005. As these incomes are also taxed in the country where they are achieved, double taxation is carried out in such a way that the income is taxed according to Slovenian rules, reduced by the income paid in another country. The proposal in this part of the law also adequately regulates this issue. But Members and Members, this law does not address the most pressing problem, which is, if I only compare with Austria, that the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia in 2008 was EUR 15 000 768 and the average salary in the neighbouring Republic of Austria, pardon, I think I said in Austria earlier, so there were 15 000 700 in Slovenia and in the neighbouring Republic of Austria the average salary was EUR 38 000 653 in 2000. Or if we say that the wage relief in Austria was 10 000 euros and we have 2 000 800 euros. Colleagues and colleagues. It is in this area of the economic, financial crisis that it will have to be done to create new jobs in order to raise the basic standard. A kilo of bread, a litre of milk, a liter of gasoline costs the same in Slovenia and Austria. We see how the poor conditions of our citizens and citizens are. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] live and will continue, unfortunately, still live, even though we will change the law on income. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. The DeSUS Group generally agrees with all the solutions proposed by the proposer. We believe that these solutions are well thought out, that they are good and we fully agree with the solutions relating to the treatment of the taxation of the incomes of athletes and non-resident artists. We share the same agreement in the work relating to subsidies for areas with limited agricultural production, which will, after a new exemption from taxation, be exempt. We agree with the exception of taxation of income from the non-residents' bonds of the Republic of Slovenia. We also agree with the changes in taxation from the incomes of Members of the European Parliament, then also on the equalisation of the gift and delivery contract between spouses and parents and children. In particular, we support the amendment to facilitate the maintenance of family members. We therefore agree with the solutions proposed, but we have serious concerns about the novel in the part that we believe represents, in our view, an inappropriate, unacceptable and unargumented special treatment of certain groups of taxpayers. This is a fundamental step towards equality of legal rights and obligations of taxpayers. The applicant proposes that the taxation of income generated by cross-border labour migrants outside Slovenia be treated differently, as is the case with the existing rules on the avoidance of double taxation, and treated differently from that of nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. residents of the Republic of Slovenia who generate income from employment in the Republic of Slovenia. This position was already made clear by the parliamentary group regarding the taxation of this group of taxpayers when the amendment of the tax procedure law was adopted. However, that our position is not alone proves the opinion of respect for valuable institutions and bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, also our Legal and Legislative Service. Moreover, many legal experts join the view that the proposed solution in this work is not only appropriate but also unconstitutional. Unfortunately, even during the discussion on the working body, where unfortunately the DeSUS Group does not have its own representative, this item and this part of the content of the proposed solutions were under-preferred and clarified in our opinion. We are of the opinion that this part is absolutely under-thinking and under-worked. Of course, it is true that the establishment of a tax regime in each country's domain is, but I can certainly say that this solution is contrary to almost all the tax principles on which the tax system should be based. It is a matter of disregarding the principles of legal certainty, the principle of universality, the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity, tax fairness, the principle of equality in law and before law, the principle of tax equality and proportionality, the principle of social state and probably a number of other principles. Unfortunately, in the DeSUS Group of Members, it appears that the applicant has strayed under an extremely strong lobby, this is a group of people who claim from our country to be given additional tax privileges, even though there are no real and reasonable reasons for allowing such a distinction between taxpayers. We are never in the DeSUS Group of Unconstitutionality, and we will not support them in the future. Thus, we do not support this proposed unconstitutionality. We are convinced that with its enforcement, Slovenian citizens and nationals would be in a significantly worse position with Slovenian employers than cross-border workers and migrants. It's some discriminatory treatment of our residents. For this reason, there is no consensus in the Group of Members on the support of the novel. However, we expect that the debate in this Chamber, as well as some legal expertise that will be given to us at this time, will indicate whether or not we should decide to support [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Or we don't support her. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will be held on Tuesday, 2 February, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to this next point, I would have one procedural proposal, because we in the parliamentary group do not know how to predict obstruction and how it should not be, before this point I would have asked for a 30-minute recess to take place, because we would not like to be punished again when we announced an obstruction, Mr Kumer of the Social Democrats as President of the Mandate- volitional Commission has given us a sentence because we had announced obstruction on the agenda. In fact, when voting on the agenda, there is a vote on all points at once, which means that we have announced obstruction for the points, but we have a penalty. I'd like you to give us 30 minutes to talk about what we can do in the National Assembly and what we can't do. Because what is now happening in the National Assembly, when the SD takes over the permission of the Member's work as it suits them, is unsustainable. Therefore, I ask for 30 minutes of rest to decide whether we will or will not, whether we may or may not, how we may, how we may not, what is permitted, what is not permitted, how permitted, where allowed, who is allowed, who is not allowed and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, I will give you 30 minutes' rest before deciding on this point. However, if you wish to predict obstruction in relation to this point, you can announce it right now, both for participation in the point and later for participation in the vote. For this there is no problem, at any time before the hearing, at the beginning of the examination of the item you may indicate obstruction of participation at the point and for the vote as well. The questions you raised may be discussed in the College, but not in the plenary session of the National Assembly. Do you still want to make a procedural proposal? Procedural proposal, but we will not discuss it because it is not the subject of the agenda, as you know. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know this isn't the subject of the agenda, but then we ask ourselves what is the subject of the agenda if we can't talk about the agenda. But I do realize we're not going to predict obstruction. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. Obstruction is not predicted. We're moving to 31. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Resolution on the National Programme for the Development of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to you a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the development of civil aviation. It is primarily a strategic document dealing with the future development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia. This will move within the framework of three basic assumptions: aviation safety, the competitiveness of Slovenian civil aviation and sustainable development. It is also an important part of the resolution aimed at linking civil aviation and the wider economic environment, where, with appropriate cooperation, we can achieve major synergies both on aviation development and on economic growth. The Slovenian aviation took place on the map of the world in 1909 with Edward Rusjan and plays a very important role in Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy. The needs for the common development policy of civil aviation are clearly demonstrated in the first years of the Slovenian state. It was therefore necessary to develop an integrated strategy for the development of civil aviation, which will serve as a common direction for the development of the state, economy and individuals involved in civil aviation over the next ten years. The motion for a resolution was prepared on the basis of an analysis of the state of the current advantages and weaknesses of civil aviation and of the potential opportunities and threats that could arise in the future. Both industry and the public were involved in the assessment and preparation of the document and the result is the first Slovenian development programme for the entire area of civil aviation. On the basis of the joint findings of the public debate, a motion for a resolution drawing up common objectives and frameworks in which civil aviation will develop in the Republic of Slovenia over the next ten years. This will focus on aviation operators and potential investors, given the direction of development that the country pursues and supports in the long term. The request for a national civil aviation development programme is set out in Article 6 of the Aviation Act and provides for the establishment of guidelines for sustainable development and civil aviation security. Since civil aviation security covers a broad aviation sector, the entire aviation chain needs to be addressed within the framework of security: from certification of the production, use and maintenance of aircraft to the airport of infrastructure, air traffic infrastructure and training of personnel and the way air operations are carried out. Comprehensive treatment of civil aviation and clear guidelines for further development are the basis for ensuring the security and sustainable development of civil aviation. The content of the resolution itself is divided into four parts. The first part deals with the current situation in the field of civil aviation, the assessment of projected future growth and the analysis of the advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and risks. The focus is on future opportunities and threats that have led to a future development strategy. The exploitation of Slovenian knowledge and the clear determination of weak points in the current situation have led to the setting of targets to be pursued. The second part deals with the basic assumptions for the development of civil aviation, which must be taken into account in the objectives and means to achieve the defined objectives. These are security and risk reduction in civil aviation, sustainable development, competitiveness. These assumptions are the basis on which we need to build on the present and long-term development of the aviation industry. Part three sets out the objectives we want to achieve by 2020. With the primary objective of ensuring civil aviation security, the national programme puts the development of civil aviation activities and infrastructure, a stronger link with the other economy, in particular tourism, and the involvement in the integrated transport network in the Republic of Slovenia. Part 4 sets out the measures to be taken to achieve the objectives set and the deadlines within which the measures are to be implemented. It is also essential to highlight the impact of civil aviation on the wider social and economic environment. As a transport industry, aviation is the fastest and safest way to transport passengers and cargo. Commercial air transport makes it possible to meet the basic human need for mobility and technological development is also expanding the sphere of general aviation where aircraft are used as personal means of transport. It is also an economic component, as studies show that aviation at global and economic level accounts for about 8% of the share and that it directly employs about five and a half million people. Therefore, part of the resolution is aimed at promoting aviation integration with other economic sectors and the intense involvement of aviation in existing transport systems, ensuring intermodality and linking and regular cooperation with tourism. Tourism can be linked [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] development of aviation and general economic growth. In line with the importance and development potential of Slovenian civil aviation, I propose that the motion for a resolution be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on behalf of the Transport Committee. At its 7th meeting, on 12 January 2010, the Committee held its own meeting on the ground at the Ljubljana and Adria Aerodrome, discussed the motion for a resolution on the National Civil Aviation Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of Slovenian international airports, national air carrier, air traffic control and the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the meeting. In the introduction, the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, presented the reasons and objectives pursued by the motion for a resolution. He stressed that civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia has a long tradition and is one of the drivers of the Slovenian economy and needs a framework for future development, taking into account environmental responsibility, the needs of users and civil aviation operators by 2020. With the primary objective of ensuring civil aviation security, the national programme puts the development of civil aviation activities and infrastructure among the priorities, a stronger link with the economy, in particular with tourism, and the involvement of aviation in the entire transport network in the country. The Committee considered that international air transport was extremely important for the development of Slovenia and that the development of civil aviation in the domestic airspace should also be encouraged. In the debate, the members of the Committee stressed the need to build helicopters of vital importance in dealing with natural or other disasters. The representatives of airports and the national air carrier who took part in the debate stressed that many broad discussions were organised in the preparation of the document and that the document takes into account the development ambitions of all civil aviation actors in Slovenia. The Committee also adopted all amendments that were drawn up in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services. Thus, the text of the updated motion for a resolution on the national programme for the development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia is submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and decision and we can say that the document is truly consistent with all users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable representatives of the government. Fellow Members, Members of Parliament. The concept of aviation creates a wealth of association among people from aircraft, high technology and rapid technological development, travel, remote places through security to Ikar and Edward Rusjan. Modern aviation is still a source of romanticism and even exclusiveism after a century of rapid development. In fact, aviation, or more specifically civil aviation as a transport subsystem, is now given a major economic activity which is closely linked and related to the rest of the economy, not only to the other economy, but also to other factors, such as local and international political conditions and related terrorism, the emergence of communicable diseases and more. It is for this reason that Slovenian civil aviation also receives its national development programme through the resolution under consideration with the objectives of setting a general framework for its development in this decade. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome this fact, although it has passed since the adoption of the Aviation Act, which has been ordering the preparation of such a strategic document for nine years. We have no major comments on the structure and content of the national programme in the LDS. We estimate that the current situation in the field of civil aviation is being addressed realistically and that it is moderately optimistic about the expected growth in the future. In this regard, we find it particularly important to analyse the advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and dangers. As positive and feasible as possible, we are assessing the stated objectives that we want to achieve by 2020. In the LDS, we fully agree that ensuring civil aviation security remains a fundamental and relatively important objective for the development of our civil aviation, given the complexity of security conditions. In our opinion, other priorities have also been properly set, namely the development of civil aviation activities and infrastructure, a stronger link with the other economy, in particular tourism, and the involvement in the integrity of the Slovenian transport network, thereby achieving the objective and positive consequences of intermodality. It is precisely as regards the establishment of intermodality in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that we would expect a slightly greater ambition of the national programme, which notes with intermodality the closely linked non-exploitation of our geostrategic position. Furthermore, in LDS, as an important and positive project, we would like to point out that the percentage of the construction of the main plan of our central airport, including the railway connection between the airport and Ljubljana or Kranj, is already beginning. The lack of a railway connection between Brnik and Ljubljana in LDS is seen as the current great flaw in the airport of Jožet Pučnik and one of the most important obstacles to its further development, as well as as the shame felt on its own by all those passengers who expect a quick, comfortable and cheap public transport from the airport to Ljubljana and back. As regards the planned further development of Portorož airport, the carriers of their development are particularly reminded of the necessary after an extremely professional and subtle decision on the increase of the airport, in particular the extension of the runway which will reach the protected area of the landscape park and the Natura 2000 area. With regard to environmental protection, we also expected in the LDS a somewhat more ambitious document on the sustainable development of civil aviation. It seems to us that it is somewhat underestimating the negative effects of civil aviation, particularly its planned growth in the future. Last but not least, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome the commitment to allow and enable the development of a commercial part of civil aviation to develop sports and amateur aviation, i.e. the non-commercial part of civil aviation, where the already mentioned approach to the romance of aviation is even more justified. The strategic document under consideration for the development of our civil aviation gives airlines and future investors a relatively precise development objective, which our country will pursue and support in the long term. This is Slovenian civil aviation, which has a long, rich and successful history, comparable to the history of civil aviation in the most developed countries, certainly deserves it. We will therefore support the motion for a resolution in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Miroslav Klun. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a resolution on the National Civil Aviation Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. The national programme is a strategic document based on findings of advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and dangers in civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia, as currently recognised by the State and civil aviation operators. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware of the importance of the economic component of aviation and therefore it is important to promote the integration of aviation with other economic sectors, particularly tourism. It is also important to promote domestic air transport and stimulate smaller airports, as well as all those users who want to participate and use these airports for their own purposes as well as for the purposes of tourism and the economy, as we know that both small aircraft and helicopters are increasingly being used in the private sector for these purposes and are becoming normal and increasingly useful means of transport for both tourism and the economy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the document presented is a good basis for implementing the objectives that will set the future development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020 in line with the development of this segment in Europe and the world. We will therefore fully support the proposed resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The legal basis for the resolution on the National Civil Aviation Programme in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the provisions of the Aviation Act. In fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have given a lot of attention to the content itself, and we note that, with the proposed resolution, the proposaler has somehow coordinated the real possibilities in a broader context, taking into account, above all, proposals for improvement, especially to take a step in the civil aviation field with users or airport infrastructure managers in the Republic of Slovenia. Special attention has been paid to the treatment of those parts relating to three airports in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the central airport of Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana, Edward Rusjan in Maribor and the airport in Portorož. In this area, we can see that some things are improving in these airports, and in particular some things are lagging behind in terms of perception or catching up to this accelerated development in this area, both in terms of safety and also in terms of the infrastructure airport itself, from the runways and other infrastructures involved in aviation safety. We have given greater attention to the military airport Cerklje ob Krka, which is one of the most important, especially when it comes to conducting operations in the field of military aviation. This is also reflected, of course, in the progress in the local environment where the airport is only located, in the provision of development funds at this airport, in the basic airport infrastructure, as well as in the light of everything required by environmental standards in agreement with the local population, because very strict criteria are precisely in the field of taking environmental and other security moments into account in the planning and development of airport infrastructure. What we are particularly pleased about is that the proposaler with a specific table also focused on the objectives and content of the work at individual airports, but we are concerned that all of these activities are somewhat time-consuming, if we look only at the link between the central Slovenian airport of Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana and the railway infrastructure, which is planned in the resolution, but which is just in 2019. We know, however, that if we compare other larger airports, comparable airports in the other Member States of the European Union, we can find that railway links are almost necessarily necessary and we also see this at other airports in the EU Member States. We would also like to see the proposaler adopt the remaining sectoral legislation which obliges and allows the development and realization of all the objectives set out in the Annex, according to the specific table of the National Civil Aviation Development Programme, which is set by the Cilicia, the tools and, in particular, the time-frames for the implementation of certain activities that will guarantee greater security. As more security is provided, the necessary infrastructure is also available, we can expect that at Slovenian airports, too, those aircraft for which, in the current situation, taking into account airport infrastructure equipment, sometimes this is not possible. We will support the resolution in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Member State is indeed presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! At the beginning of the mandate, coalition partners and I committed ourselves to fully aligning the legal bases with the current trends in aviation with the aim of accelerating civil aviation. The government resolution was adopted by Members and Members of the Transport Committee in the presence of representatives of the three central airports of the national air carrier and air traffic control, as it is believed that it is a good basis for the development of civil aviation. As was said when the resolution was presented, the legal basis for its creation and adoption is the Aviation Act. The fact is that civil aviation in Slovenia has an extremely long tradition. Given today's mobility, we can say that one of them has also driven economic development. The national programme ahead of us will outline the appropriate targets and tools for achieving them by 2020, taking into account the great responsibility for the environment, the needs of users and carriers. This is a strategic document based on the so-called SWOT analysis, as currently recognised by the State and the operators. The objectives set by the coalition partners and taken into account by the Government in the Resolution on the National Civil Aviation Development Programme will be achieved only through parallel development of expertise and solutions in areas that promote this development and are: ensuring the continuous development of regulations that will enable the safe and effective integration of technical innovations and improved operational procedures; ensuring continuous, professional and effective control over the implementation of all civil aviation activities through the integration of the management system, thereby enhancing preventive action in ensuring safety; the need for continuous development of an air traffic management and control system that will allow safe and effective monitoring of the expected volume of air traffic; the need to set long-term objectives for the development of central public airports, to ensure their international competitiveness; and public airports for internaltransport ; and the development of civil aviation and tourism sportingactivities , to which the Transboundary airport alsobelongs. Taking advantage of the advantage is part of the strategic situation of Slovenia through the intensive integration of public airports into current and future traffic flows, and by appropriate investment in transport infrastructure, ensuring the intermodality of the State transport network. Strengthening the integration of aviation industry and research and education institutions for faster and more efficient integration of highly educated, by introducing new technologies and procedures into the aviation industry. Promoting the integration of civil aviation, with a wider economic environment that ensures long-term environmental and aviation development. For all of this, we will indeed support the resolution in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! Civil aviation is a term that covers commercial aviation activities, aviation production and general aviation activities, which include flying for their own purposes and sports and amateur activities. In addition, we must be aware of the direct impact of civil aviation on a large part of the economy, as it requires by nature a range of support activities and is also the fastest possible transport of people, goods and mail. The geographical position of the Republic of Slovenia is an advantage which is certainly not exploited in civil aviation. Public airports in the Republic of Slovenia are one of the foundations of civil aviation and are very important for the existence and further development of civil aviation. They are one of the most important factors for the economic development of the country, regions and local communities. Their connection with the world provides many opportunities, only the right formula and solution will have to be found for our three central and international airports - Ljubljana, Maribor and Portorož. Air carriers are particularly affected in these times of crisis. We have been reading in newspapers just the last days that the Slovenian national carrier is doing business with a few million losses, while the central Slovenian airport is also operating in these times with a few million profits. In a way, we find this relationship odd, because these two entities depend on each other for their lives, even in the fact that the majority owner of both Republic of Slovenia. According to data, Adria Airways generates almost 50% of traffic at Brnik Airport. There must be something wrong with this approach. In the development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to commercial aviation activities, non-commercial activities of general aviation have played a major role, including aviation activities of a private, sports and amateur nature, confirming the recognised success of individuals at European and global level. As it is said, civil aviation covers many areas that are being touched and it is right for us to adopt a strategy in Slovenia. But it will be even better when we actually put it into practice, as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. Position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Resolution of the National Civil Aviation Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. We have before us the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia. Civil aviation has a long tradition in the Republic of Slovenia and represents one of the driving forces of the Slovenian economy. Taking into account the anticipated development of civil aviation, civil aviation should be placed within the framework of future development, with full responsibility for the environment, the needs of users and operators. Such a framework will be established by the National Programme for the Development of Civil Aviation, which will outline the objectives and tools for achieving the selected objectives. This is the first such strategic document in the field of civil aviation development following the independence of Slovenia. Design based on identified advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia, as currently recognised by the State, and civil aviation operators. The aim of the national programme is to outline common objectives which will provide a general framework for the future development of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020. This will provide the aviation operators and potential investors with a framework that the country will pursue and support in the long term. The primary objective of ensuring civil aviation security is to set priorities: to develop civil aviation activities and infrastructure, to connect more intensively with the rest of the economy, especially tourism, and to engage in the entire transport network, thereby achieving the objective and positive consequences of intermodality. This is a general document which, in accordance with the Aviation Act, has provided guidance for the sustainable development of civil aviation and air safety. Where aviation is a transport sector that is precisely defined in European rules, which is essential in terms of security. In accordance with the proposed resolution, the State should consider, in order to assist non-commercial activities of civil aviation, the possibility of a specific regime to be dealt with separately, with the cost of aviation, fuel and non-commercial civil aviation activities, which, according to the applicant, is one of the foundations of civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we would like to remind the DeSUS Group that aviation in Slovenia is linked to a club activity that is the basis for the development of Slovenian aviation experts. Since it is a sport activity that requires a lot of costs, we join the evaluation of the applicant in order to enable the country to further develop this activity, which is the source of Slovenian aviation knowledge. In accordance with the proposed document, the Republic of Slovenia should also pay particular attention to the further development of the aviation meteorology service. Let us recall, however, that the status of air meteorologists is inadequately regulated in the Public Sector Wage System Act. It is therefore expected that the Government will examine the current status of air weather personnel, given the importance of the meteorological navigation service at airports in terms of air safety, as the further development of the air weather service also depends on the relevant status of its staff. In the DeSUS Group, we assess the necessity of linking central public airports to public transport infrastructure, i.e. rail infrastructure, as this is essential for the development of aviation and thus the economic environment. At the same time, we are pleased that the document also includes the possibility of building a public airport near the capital, which would be used for general aviation, with the decision to build it, taking into account the municipal spatial implementing acts of Ljubljana and environmental legislation, depending on the Municipality of Ljubljana and not the State. We are pleased that the representatives of Slovenian airlines who participated in the discussion at the home body said that when preparing this document, the applicant organised a broad debate and took into account the development ambitions of all relevant actors. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. This is the only document in Slovenia alone, the first document to address this issue of the development of civil aviation in an integrated manner, and I think we should thank those who have done so. In my name as well as on behalf of the Aviation Union of Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party, I am particularly grateful. I hope that one day we will also get such a national resolution, a national maritime transport programme, if ever we have one, given how Croatia takes everything from us and how our government "smacks" them. And also for river transport, if we ever have it, because here on the government level it shows that they don't understand what it is even though we had 200 years ago, 200 years ago, 300 ships sailing through Ljubljana, today we don't have any. The fact is that it is also important to stress the very good cooperation of the Ministry of Transport in the aviation segment with the Aviation Union of Slovenia, although certain competences of aviation relations may need to be increased and I think this will also be regulated. The resolution is good, it is excellent, but perhaps we should consider some other matters, especially the protection of the cultural and technical heritage of aviation, here Slovenia has a very important place in world aviation, but in this area we do nothing or very little. I think he's moving in here, too. After all, the government turned on the green light for the European Airport Museum in Murski Sobota. The Ministry of Transport absolutely supports and participates in matters, including the Ministry of Agriculture, now we have to convince the Mayor of Murska Sobota that he will make some moves so that the matter can be carried out. After all, it would not have been good if this big project had left Slovenia because we did not know how to implement it. As far as the railway connection between Brnik and Ljubljana is concerned, of course, it makes sense. However, the issue of Maribor airport needs to be highlighted here. It already has infrastructure connected to the railway, but the airport has been pushed aside, due to some of the interrelationships between Ljubljana and Maribor, and some of the inadequate personnel that took this airport almost underwater. In this regard, it must be said that it is imperative to build an airport in Ljubljana and congratulations to the programme preparers on putting it in point 4/5/7 as a public airport for domestic air transport. It may be necessary to say that this will not only be domestic air transport, but that this can also be a protocol airport and a commercial airport for transport also outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, certain airports or airports should be prevented from expanding to limited and threatened natural areas. As is the case with Divača, where they are prepared to expand the airport path to the protected area of Crassus due to slight and easy profits. It would also make sense to consider the insurance of aircraft which is not currently adequate. I fear that Slovenian aircraft will be insured in Slovakia, Austria or elsewhere, because our insurance companies do not have a hearing about insurance and sports flying. The heliport segment of buildings should also be regulated and the use of helicopters in urban areas. Not according to the European model, but according to the American model, which is significantly more advanced in this area. We must also not forget the Slovenian aviation industry, which is in certain segments in the first lines of the world aviation industry. The country is causing them major problems, especially with certain economic constraints. For example, if we take it from Ajdovščina, it has to sell aircraft not as Slovenian products, as the highlight of Slovenian technology, but as foreign products through American interfaces, where Italians are already trying to enter. For they promised the owner that he would only come to Italy, he would get everything, space, subsidies. We can only thank the patriotism of Boscarol for not having done this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be held on Tuesday, 2 February 2010, in the framework of the votes. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - First of all, it is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Road Transport Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 23 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Petr Verlic, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Dear President, thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! Allow me to give a brief explanation of the proposal to amend the Road Transport Act which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group concerning the implementation of public passenger transport. In public passenger transport, we have already talked a lot in this National Assembly at the declaration level, including as an instrument that will improve the environmental balance of the Republic of Slovenia. However, when we move to an operational level, it is a matter of falling into purely simple things, such as the organisation of urban line transport, as defined in the Road Transport Act. Why is he going? The existing law requires that urban line transport, the right urban transport, can be organised within only one municipality, except with the special agreement of the Directorate, and this can also be organised in some truly exceptional cases outside the congregation’s borders, it is said that two municipalities can be connected. And allow me, on a specific occasion. The municipality of Ljubljana, which has developed urban passenger transport, of course, has considerable migration also from the suburbs, from the municipal municipalities. People who want urban transport to connect these neighboring congregations as well. It's probably not just in Ljubljana, it's probably somewhere else in Slovenia, where more municipalities would like to connect their day-to-day migrations to city buses, but look - the law prevents it. But despite the fact that the law prevents this today we have a case where Ljubljana passenger traffic, when the city bus number 6 brings and drives from Montenegro, via the Long Bridge to another municipality in Brezovice, to Vnanje Gorica, when the city bus drives to Podpeč, again another municipality and we could list. But at the same time, the city bus, at the best of wishes of the people of Škofljica, faces major problems due to the lack of construction of a southern car park and does not drive there. She can't go in there because this law forbids it. Interesting! Then one wonders how a city bus can drive once in the same marriage, crossing the boundaries of the congregation, and another does not. That is why we have tabled this amendment to the law, in which we simply define that urban line transport is the public transport of passengers, which one or more municipalities can organise as a public service in their areas. By doing so, we give the marriage ground that the congregations can arrange for one another to organize urban transportation by serving the inhabitants. Of course, we are aware that besides urban transport there are also lined, cross-border transports, which are often duplicating that the same line of urban transport includes an inter-urban bus, such as from Kočev to Ljubljana. However, in these proposed amendments, the Road Directorate, together with the municipalities and the existing concessionaire, has also agreed to arrange the lines to synchronize them so that it will be good for passengers. Once again, we must protect here, in law, the public interest, the interest of the traveller who wants to come to the centre, to the workplace and back. That is why we suggest that we think carefully about this law. Is it a change that will be welcome to help people not to ask themselves: Yes, what, but because of the marriage we should not bring from Skofljica to Ljubljana?Oh, my God! Come on, that's why we're here to do something for public passenger traffic, for passengers. I suggest you support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act are completely contrary to the basic concept of regulating the public line transport of passengers in road transport. The fact is that the regime, as proposed by the proposer, would result in a parallel establishment of a new public transport system that would weaken the already low economic efficiency of the existing public line transport system. The aim of the proposer is to extend the current urban transport lines to neighbouring municipalities on the basis of amendments to the law. This would result in the establishment of good urban transport lines aimed at meeting the needs of daily migration. Such lines already exist and would not constitute an improvement in accessibility to public transport, but merely an intervention in existing transport systems for which concessions have already been granted. If urban municipalities actually want to improve accessibility to public passenger transport, improve the quality of services and cheap transport, this makes it possible for them to already operate. The Regulation on concessions in the field of bus transport in Article 51 provides that a local community or other legal or natural person may provide, on the basis of a contract, additional means for the performance of public service obligations, public line transport by providing means for the transport of a particular group or any passenger in the context of line travel, which may also include a specific station for those passengers, in particular here referring to school-bound children, workers, etc. In addition, it provides funds to increase the number of expenditure per line in order to provide funds for additional stations or stations on the line. To provide means for an additional line or extension and to provide means for lower transport on a particular line or part of a line within a particular local community. If the local community takes advantage of the above options, it can significantly improve the level of supply of transport services in its area. Thus, by integrating transport services and reducing prices into the public transport system, a significant number of passengers can be acquired. Some local communities have already taken advantage of this option. In Ljubljana, there is currently coordination between the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Municipality of Škofljica and bus carriers on the development of the improvement of the offer and the reduction of ticket prices on the route Škofljica - Ljubljana. The underlying reasons why the proposal cannot be supported are studies and practices so far, which have shown that the most appropriate public passenger transport management system is at the state level. The intermediate level is not possible because there is no regional level or provincial level. The proposed method would constitute a two-track regulation and management of public passenger transport. In this way, it is not possible to guarantee the exclusive rights of carriers granted by applicable concession contracts and the withdrawal of the country poses a significant risk to the regulation of such traffic. The minimum accessibility standard is not binding on municipalities, which would result in unequal accessibility for citizens in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law in Article 52 allowed for the connectivity of local and national public line transport, which already proves some good practices in Slovenia. As an example, we can mention Dol in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Socialist Group of Members will be moved by Breda Pecan. Please. [[No, no, ……]] Janko Weber. I got a notice that this will be Breda Pecan, but originally reported is Janko Weber. Please. For coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. With the proposed amendments and amendments to the Road Transport Act, it would like to define more precisely the function of urban liner transport in relation to other liner public or cross-border transport. I think this is a very good goal, but when we look at the content of the law and the state in which line traffic is located in Slovenia, this can only be another step towards further disalignment of liner urban and liner cross-border traffic. This is very dangerous. For this incoherence is a major problem for users, to whom, after all, this line transport is intended. We are already finding that rail, line-to-line bus and line-to-city bus traffic are not aligned. This is the key issue that we must try to resolve as soon as possible in Slovenia. The fact that we have poorly developed and unrelated public passenger traffic also reflects the fact that more and more people are in cars and that more and more congestion is being created on highways and, above all, on raids against the capital or other major economic centres in Slovenia. In addition, we have a different approach for public passenger carriers, bus and rail transport and carriers in this area, as we are dealing with both carriers. We have special laws for rail line transport and special laws for bus and coach transport. The payment of compensation or toll subsidies in rail and bus transport is also different. So, a whole series of questions that can only be answered and in a way if we really adopt a law that will regulate an integrated public passenger transport system as soon as possible. This integrated public passenger transport must, of course, specify stations, crossing points and introduce a so-called single ticket so that anyone who goes on a trip or goes on a train service and then goes on a cross-border basis, if necessary, and then on urban transport, can do so with one ticket. This is not resolved in Slovenia right now. However, if the law proposed today were to be adopted, it would cause further confusion, precisely because the municipalities could also establish cross-border line transport, independently or without the consent of the State to do so, which is responsible for cross-border line transport. And for cross-border line transport we have concluded concession contracts in Slovenia and municipalities could also intervene in this concession contract without the consent of these concessionaires or without the authority to harmonise this relationship between concessionaires and municipalities. In fact, this law leaves out this consensus, which means that we can really get a situation when the congregations regulate line traffic in their own way, the state in its own way, given that we do not already have a coordinated one today, who will then harmonise it tomorrow? This is the key issue that we really need to tackle intensively. I think it is also possible to save him, but unfortunately this law can only lead to an even greater confusion than it is currently on this segment in traffic. Therefore, we cannot support only a small segment of this area in the Group of Social Democrats, but we think it is really necessary that the Law on Integrated Public Passenger Transport be adopted as soon as possible, which will harmonise all operators and, above all, address these needs of passengers and all users, both roads and railways, so that we can move as many people on line transport as possible, not that more and more people are being transported by cars, causing congestion and polluting the environment. In short, we will not support such a small segment that would worsen the already unregulated relationship in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and the Secretary of State! We will support this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. First, some of the introductory facts. In Slovenia, public passenger transport operates in three subsystems. First of all, it is railway, regulated by the Rail Transport Act and by the Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory economic service for the transport of passengers is carried out in internal and cross-border regional rail transport. The second is inter-urban bus transport, governed by the Road Transport Act, which provides that the State provides for the public line transport of passengers, other than public line transport in urban transport, as public goods, and grants concessions to the most favourable transport providers on the basis of the invitation to tender. And the third unit is city bus transport. The municipality may designate the organisation and method of carrying out line transport in urban transport as an economic public service and, in municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, as a local public service. All of these three subsystems are unrelated, as the adopted Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia also points out, among other sources, that we have poorly developed and unrelated public passenger transport. The management of the economic public service is subject to different conditions and criteria for their implementation and in particular to different criteria and methodologies for monitoring costs and revenues and for paying compensations or subsidies to the road and rail undertakings, and it is therefore necessary to adopt a law governing an integrated public passenger transport system. The law should define as an obligation the introduction of a harmonised timetable for the uniform tariff system and the uniform information system for all carriers of public transport services. The aim of this is, of course, to reduce the cost of public passenger transport in the budget and to attract as many passengers as possible, in particular those currently using cars. An important instrument promoting the use of public transport can also be a single ticket, which also defines the resolution. The proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act define more precisely the function of the implementation of urban line traffic in relation to other public, cross-border passenger transport. Under the current law, the possibility of implementing urban transport to a very limited extent, only within one municipality, but only in exceptional cases with the consent of the Directorate. However, based on practice, the development of public passenger transport is unnecessarily limited. The proposed amendments follow the orientation of the adopted Transport Policy Resolution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as one of the key objectives, underlines the greater importance of public passenger transport and the shift of passenger transport to public passenger transport. This is also reflected in the documents adopted by the European Union in this area. The increased use of public passenger transport also has a positive impact on the reduction of exhaust emissions and on the reduction of the traffic of passenger congestion vehicles in urban areas. All these reasons lead us to support this novel in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues. Mr President, representatives from the Ministry of Transport. Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. It is true that this law at first reading touches one segment. It is true that some MEPs in the National Assembly have already drawn attention to the issue of integrated public transport and, of course, nothing happens. Integrated public transport, including the transport of children to school, is, of course, the cost of municipalities and should remain. We absolutely do not want to change anything in this area, but of course we want these things to be arranged so that we do not overpayment of children's transport to school from 5 to 11 times in areas where there is no competition, so competition does not apply, because only one carrier applies and, of course, the price is forced and the local community remains nothing but to sign the contract with such an operator. Therefore, the proposal to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act, as was also heard by some colleagues of other parliamentary groups, is welcome, but they do not want to support it because it works only or changes only one segment. However, I think it is important to say that, at this first reading, where we point out a number of segments, this proposal would make sense to simply adopt and, by the Government or the Ministry, to prepare additions to the amendments, with amendments, and thus to reach a significantly better proposal for the law. Perhaps even someone in the government, at the Ministry, would even read the Resolution on the Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 3 May 2006, or this is a long time ago and this has already covered up the dust. You know, resolution, this is what some members of a National Assembly are adopting, which is a irrelevant or more marginal matter. In short, I think it's stupid to read the government's opinion and stand up, we're up against, first, second, third, and so on. Instead of telling them what and how they're going to settle next month, two, six months and so on, because more than 25% of their term of office has already expired. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support amendments to the Road Transport Act and, of course, as we have already warned, we have also prepared certain amendments. It is certainly necessary to remind the proposer that, in accordance with Article 140 of the Constitution, there will also be a need to obtain views from local communities as this is linked to local communities. But the local communities are not against this being dealt with at last. As has already been said, you imagine that in one of our Slovenia with two million you might really get to a single ticket. To a one-way ticket for the railway suburban, urban, inter-national, linear, regional, what do I know what it's called? And so we would simplify and get a so-called intermodal terminal, as the modern word for it is supposed to be. There are two million of us, and in fact in one of the European countries this would be settled by some decision of the municipal council. But the problem is that you don't do it in the government, simply because there are too many lobbyists who are tied to these state nurserys, they have concessions, they collect money, they get money. It doesn't matter if you drive an empty bus, they got the money, and then, of course, things just run. On the other hand, the local communities, as I have already said, spend huge expenses on transporting children to school - remember, I have even talked about this in the National Assembly several times since I have presented numbers and warned that municipalities, some local communities where there are few children, are scattered and so on, because teaching begins at a specified time, it is necessary to bring children from all different parts of the child, paying as much as 8 to 10% of the budget for transporting children to school. Or, I was talking about the price being 10 times higher than if we called the agency today and wanted a trip to Venice on Sunday. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party we have already said that we will support the bill. However, we expect from the Government a slightly more reasoned position, that they will not only write that the proposal by the proposer changes the concept of "city transport" completely. Can you imagine what this means for citizens and citizens?Oh, my God! That the concept of urban transport completely changes. Of this, our citizens and citizens have something. I mean, hey, bureaucrats, my dear, do you realize what nonsense you're writing in these opinions?Oh, my God! I mean, that's incomprehensible. It is true, however, that this would be substantially different in terms of regions. However, when you announced a death sentence to the regions on 1 February 2008, unfortunately, through the regions, which would also move to the regional area, you will not or will not happen, and unfortunately this cannot be regulated. I suggest that you really think about this and the law, because in the first reading, so in the second reading on road transport, we change, complement and make it so that we can give citizens and citizens, when they ask us if you have done something for us in the previous meeting, we can say, "Well, yes, yes, we will make a single ticket to transport in our country." This will, of course, also have a profound impact on ecology and on less consumption, in short, on CO2 reduction - all that is full of mouth words but there are no actions. Calling for action!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a road transport law. Urban and cross-border bus transport and rail transport are three segments of public passenger transport, for which we can claim to be fully justified, and in this point we attach to the applicant that they are poorly developed and unrelated. However, according to our assessment, the bill before us does not make any improvements in this area. Perhaps we could even say that the proposal to supplement Article 3 and to amend Article 53 of the current law introduces confusion, as it substantially changes the way in which road passenger public line transport is managed. The proposal also amends the concept of urban transport by amending Article 53 of the current law. The proposal also addresses the area now governed by the Regulation on the manner in which the economic public service is carried out, the public line transport of passengers in inland road transport and the concession of this public service. The proposal could lead to a significant breach of the implementation of the concession relationship, as it is not possible to guarantee exclusive rights to concessionaires in the proposed manner, which is one of the foundations of the concession relationship. Since the solutions in the proposed amendment would overlap or mix the existing economic public service with the local public service, the preparation of an emergency line system would be virtually impossible and completely limited, contrary to the aim of a transport policy aimed at sustainable mobility or the integration of the system, which is also being prepared in the form of integrated public passenger transport. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Srečko Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The main focus of the government today was to essentially address the issue on a very narrow segment if, of course, this bill on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act were adopted. Look. The point of view of the Slovenian National Party is that public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia is not systematically and, of course, properly regulated and regulated in a consistent manner according to the domestic rules. In the Slovenian National Party for many years, we have been pointing to the fact that, of course, we should go to this arrangement, as all other countries around the world know, and, of course, to direct above all this great movement of passengers to the subway, which would of course also be connected in suburban transport. No one has thought about it until today. Many initiatives of the Slovenian National Party have been given to this government and the previous government, but they have always come across deaf ears. I know, you'll say, it's a big project, it's not something you can do, it's for thought. Technically, the project is very demanding, but it is feasible and if we consider only that traffic is growing, that in fact Ljubljana is not properly connected to this, I come from Primorska every day and it is not a day to be, I will say, an accident on this highway. Ljubljana is already stifling in traffic, and the fact is that there are more traffic from year to year. We are now in the middle of a thorough overhaul of the railway station, but very poor solutions are in the process of doing so. This rail link should in essence be an underground rail link, with, of course, an appropriate railway connection and suburban transport. To think about how much Ljubljana picks up alone, I will say penalties for incorrect parking. Millions of euros, we know that. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had taken seriously the solution to this transport issue, of course, then it would have spent at least as much as it could collecting Ljubljana, for development studies, preparation of projects and in a few years could have a project that could also be possible to realize. This should also make it questionable, I will say, combined passenger traffic and, of course, the usefulness of this passenger traffic would also extend to another population, which simply cannot afford to find a job in Ljubljana, because trains are already overcrowded if we look at how the rail passenger traffic is choking, I will say, in this small flow and how Ljubljana cannot accept what it could otherwise, if it had this arranged. The traffic policy in Ljubljana is also such that we spend more or less on waiting at traffic lights than, of course, on arriving in Ljubljana alone. In short, in the National Party, we call for public passenger transport to be properly regulated by a strategy that will have a clear vision and which will also have its place in the budget - the capital deserves it - and in the way we regulate today to simply collect penalties, but we do not have any regulated or parking areas and, of course, we are also appropriately increasing the risk of flow or traffic in Ljubljana and on other roads is an irresponsible act. We think that, of course, we should do it at least as they have all the major cities. I know, you'll say, even if you did it against the Vrhnika, it would be a problem to build, because there's an environment there, so there's a water catchment area, wetlands and so on. For example, I will give you that the roads are taking place today in the tunnels beneath the sea. So it wouldn't be any problem. What the proponents are proposing today is really a tiny segment that we can do today. There is no need to postpone this until tomorrow and to make excuses for waiting for a new study that will cost millions and millions of euros, or we may not even be able to design pre-prepared projects to do so. We welcome this, but, of course, we suggest to the Government that it consider the approach to this road transport policy in a European way, a modern way, and start to think about what Ljubljana will look like tomorrow if this traffic increases at a pace such as it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! The number of passengers in public bus and bus transport is decreasing steadily, resulting in a long-term latent crisis, which occasionally exceeds the framework of relations between the Ministry of Transport and operators or concessionaires. Unfortunately, despite the deep economic, financial and environmental crisis, the main means of transport in our country remains a passenger car with an average of 1.1 passengers. The growth of the public passenger transport system, especially bus, shows the long-standing complete failure of transport policy and its carriers, leading to the fact that public bus transport is a service provider of transport policy. In doing so, the party who proposed the law in question also bears its share of responsibility. Although the bill is not extensive, it has a strong and dangerous impact on the weak bus transport system in a permanent latent crisis, which is particularly true for public bus transport. And what bothers the proposers of the Slovenian Democratic Party? In their view, the law in force is too restrictive to restrict the possibility of carrying out urban bus transport only within the municipality, except in exceptional cases with the consent of the Slovenian Directorate of Roads. In their view, such an arrangement would unnecessarily restrict the development of public passenger transport and thus limit the diversion of passengers from personal to public passenger transport. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that such a bill is not suitable for further consideration. The first argument for our decision is of principle nature, because we believe that the system of public line transport of passengers in road transport because of its nature and the situation in which it is situated does not bring in partial and ill-considered interventions into this system unless additional non-systematicism is sought in an already problematic transport subsystem. Other arguments are the same as those presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its presentation. In the LDS, it seems understandable to us, given the current system in force, that public line transport within a particular settlement is carried out only exceptionally, and that, to a lesser extent, it is also possible between neighbouring settlements, provided that the day-to-day migration of the population in a larger city is required and that this does not interfere with the economic service provided by the State, i.e. the public line transport of passengers as an economic public service provided by the State. It is also reasonable that for such solutions the municipality must obtain the permission of the chancellor, this is the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. The current temporary extension of the concession is granted in certain concession areas, representing an existing network of bus public transport lines. Concession also means the exclusive right to carry out a particular activity, which is affected by the proposed law. In our opinion, there would be a masking or mixing of the existing economic public service and the local economic public service, thereby preventing the granting of exclusive rights to concessionaires, which is one of the foundations of the concessional relationship. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we understand the interest of the municipalities in particular to extend urban lines across the borders of settlements and municipalities, which would gradually reduce urban traffic burdens. This means that the municipalities would in their own way regulate the public line transport of passengers in road transport. However, a partial or complete withdrawal of the State in this segment of public line transport without the prior establishment of the provinces and without a comprehensive change in the public bus transport system is too risky in the view of the LDS. It did not guarantee that the municipalities would truly reconcile their interests, nor did they provide stable financial resources. In our view, this would lead to an even greater inequality in access to this public service between citizens and citizens according to their place of residence or residence. In the LDS, we firmly believe that it is necessary to maintain at least the current level of mobility of people with public liner road transport, and the objectives must be to improve this mobility and to improve the quality of bus transport in particular for residents in remote areas where there have been no public line transport for years. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that the proposed law does not allow this objective to be achieved, so we do not support the bill. At the same time, we express our wish that the Ministry of Transport speed up the development of a new system for the allocation of public liner transport rights and thus complete the current system for the renewal of previous concessions within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Sylven Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This bill regulates the function of the provision of liner urban transport to other public inter-national transport. So far, this has been regulated only within urban transport and to a limited extent within the congregation. Such an unnecessary regime limits the development of public passenger transport rather than approaching the needs of passengers, which is a key objective of reducing urban density, and the only logic is that people use public transport, so it is also right to extend to other municipalities and is not linked to a single city municipality and create conditions of cheaper and cleaner transport. The possibility of communities being able to set up a common economic service together, which has not been regulated so far, but this must not be the interest of individuals at the expense of money, but must be the interest of the wider public, which will bring satisfaction among people and will also be followed by amendments to the law. Of course, it would be right to try to reconcile all the changes and additions earlier with the existing carrier, which also has the most experience in this direction. The fact that urban transport is not extended to neighbouring municipalities is mainly the fault of the mayors who are not responsible for such public transport, as this transport burdens the budget of the municipalities. Here you can see the attitude of mayors towards those citizens, pensioners, disabled persons and others who have no opportunity to use any other transport, have low pensions and are dependent on social transfers. Therefore, it is right to think of these people even when you do not need their support for their election. That's when they jump around them not to say like monkeys, but when they have to do something, they forget about these people. That's why it's right to do something in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Alan Bukovnik has entered the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Good afternoon! Since I am a Member and Mayor, I am obviously one of those monkeys that are jumping around, as Mr Majhenič mentioned. During the last two years, we have been intensively discussing exactly what is envisaged and what this amendment would allow. We are also following up on procedures to extend concessions, how, even at the time of the previous government, obviously, the Transport Ministry was unable to agree on and find a solution. Posavini space, which, by the way, also wants to become a province - whether we succeed or not, we do not know, according to the proposals, but the Government's explanation for the lack of landscapes. That is why I think that the government's response here is one of the worst that I have ever received or received from Members when opposition parties are making laws. There was usually at least so much ambition that it was written that the Government was preparing a system law, but here it was in some way disputed by the fact that the integration of this transport was not necessary. I'm going to illustrate the case that I mentioned. Posavije is represented by three municipalities, Sevnica, Krško, Brežice, the railway goes through the Savoy Valley as well as line traffic. Municipality of Krško, municipality of Sevnica and also municipality of Brežice work and pay public transport for pensioners and children to bring children to music school, to sports training. And we are missing this very segment to make a model to integrate this mini-urban traffic by line traffic, such as rail and bus transport. I think that this direction is wrong, that it will wait for the provinces and I don't know what, because such a solution would enable those environments that are able to agree. And believe me, so much reason, so much wisdom at the local level, we're going to have to work so hard not to grant concessions or to double the lines. It is about the fact that today separate branches of public transport are taking place, and we finally find that they are all empty. We firmly believe that if we were to enable a solution to have vehicles of the municipality of Sevnica in Sevnica from a peaceful valley, then by rail or by regional road, by rail or by line traffic, and again by public transport to secondary school in Krk, and if we could combine them into a single map, this option would be significantly greater. We would expect, and this would also be the possibility of pooling the resources of the Ministry, which pays for concessionaires, as we have already said, some municipalities are active in this area, and we are aware of these responsibilities and would participate in part, as we are already doing today, in this urban transport. Significantly more and significantly more effective, however, would all together become more effective if we could finally provide a single map. In this part, the fate of this law is clearly similar to that of all those laws proposed by the opposition, those which I may sometimes think are put in because it is already known that they will not be adopted because they have been tabled by the opposition and may sometimes be unrealistic. In this law, however, I would expect the Ministry's pro-active role to be complemented by such a law, or at least so much corruption and ambition, to say that the intention of this matter is correct and that it is certainly wrong to wait for some province, but we could leave this initiative to the local communities and then, in connection with the direction, also settle the matter. At this point, I have to say calmly that once again the attitude towards local communities and the fear of how we behave at some domestic, simple way at the local level. And in this part, it seems to me that this principle of subsidiarity, where we could trust the local environment to be able to agree wisely in this part, could also be left behind. And let go in one part of the initiative of some environments. And believe me, there aren't enough liners to report on these matters on their own. Line carriers are missing, and in particular, they are lacking in filling buses so that this traffic can also be justified and thus all the effects that public transport can manage. That is why I expect more ambition in this work. If possible, the adoption of this law, or as soon as possible a solution, which will be for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not only for the large municipalities, but also for those regional environments where we want these links, will enable us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has applied. [[He won't discuss it.]] The word has Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am convinced that the design of modern transport policy in the field of passenger transport is a necessity for Slovenia. To this day, we have not talked about this in the National Assembly since the period of independence. And it is certainly true that if we are talking about the complexity of the project, which should bring most municipalities together, the financial supply is so large that the Government - this or the former or the future - does not even hope to design it. But see, due to the great accuracy of the great daily migration to Ljubljana, this underground project is justified commercially and it is not necessary to seek only a self-sufficient financial solution within the budget, we can also consider that this would in fact be a good deal that would be welcomed by a number of concessionaires who, of course, would come to build this matter by concession. The project would have been under construction for years and could have been phased out. We are firmly convinced in the Slovenian National Party, because our President has been in writing several times, and I have already made a written proposal to the Government and to the Ministry to do so. We don't have it yet, I'll say, not a bright idea, not even the government thought we should approach it. I would like to say that today there is almost no family without two or three cars and that most people are driving to work in Ljubljana. If we do not do so, mortality on our roads will be even greater than it is today, and it is increasing for us, we are mitigating it with some restrictive measures or, in fact, limiting it temporarily, but these intervals of reduction and increase are constantly repeating in terms of mortality. If we pulled a curve, we'd see there's been an increase in road mortality. Above all, it's a sad fact that we die a year for a class of children. And that is why we should think about unloading roads and making all the cities more friendly in some way, including Ljubljana in particular, so that it will not choke in this traffic and connect Vrhnika, Kamnik and the mountain line with Ljubljana and with the subway. If we do not do so, once again, Ljubljana will not actually be able to argue in this respect, in terms of transport solutions, especially on transport, on the passenger transport segment, with other European cities. Other European cities have already done so. And also sewage problems, such infrastructure problems are solved when essentially this rehabilitation begins. I would not like to point out that we also have very big problems in this area, because we need to keep digging. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we stress that if nothing else, respected Secretary of State, one call costing nothing for an ideal solution, the ministry or this government would still have capitalised. Look, this hall is restored with the idea of young architects. A group of young architects won a competition for the implementation of the project. And today we are sitting in a beautiful, modern hall designed by a new generation of Slovenian architects. I believe that we are going through enough knowledge in Slovenia to get a good idea that we would later develop into a project design. Money, as it were, is not a problem. I believe that we could also do this with European funds. We know that can't be done in one day. The project is also welcome because Slovenia is in crisis. And it's been working for years. It's an initiative from this town again. We cannot simply write down the fact that a public line is carried out within the settlement, except to a lesser extent, it is also possible to do so in neighbouring settlements, provided that the day-to-day migration of the inhabitants so requires. Of course, there is an excuse that the Government does not support the proposed solutions. However, it is not a comprehensive design for a solution to the problem. Therefore, once again, we are making this proposal in good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State spoke about studies and analyses. I am convinced that a serious analysis and study to analyse the area, specifically the capital city of Ljubljana with its surroundings, would certainly confirm the need for the adoption of this law or proposal, which we have submitted in the SDS. Some of you said the problem was the mayors who weren't interested. I think that most mayors are interested because they want to work for the benefit of their inhabitants, who, as it were said, are, in the case of Ljubljana with its surroundings, mostly connected to employment in Ljubljana and are going to Ljubljana on a daily basis. We already know some of these practices. The bus line 6B leads to Brezovice or Indoor Gorica. Then the line to Podpeča or Lake 19B was introduced. The problem arises by extending bus number 3 to Škofljica, although the mayor and the citizens are very interested because on the radio daily we hear that the stops against Ljubljana are from the direction of Kočevja-Skofljica. Sometimes I would argue more that the problem in the mayor is the larger municipality or capital, which deals selectively and determines where the city traffic will be. In particular, I have already mentioned Podpeč or Brezovica, because we know that there are also some new buildings that are hard to sell if there is no good connection to the capital, but this is the matter of that mayor. Perhaps more importantly, the city has no problems just because of a few 10,000 cars that drive daily to Ljubljana. The mayor's decision is to build garages, listed garages and people's charges, instead of thinking that this money that we invest in garages, and in doing so we destroy the heritage, but something else, he prefers to extend these urban transports and allow all this periphery, there will still be a lot of cars that can come into town to work and they don't have to stay within a few kilometers of the city and then take 10 kilometers for transporting an hour and a half. The problem is not only that, but the problem is that this is a huge burden on the environment. We voted yesterday on a law where we additionally taxed vehicles that are more burdensome to the environment, but we are not really interested in the environment here. Instead of extending urban transport to reduce emissions, worry about the environment, Ljubljana, by the way, is in a group of healthy cities, although studies also show that the air pollution is high, that in most cases it goes beyond the limits allowed and so on, but we do not talk about it, although I think we should. I come from the Ig Congregation. And from Kočev, from Pijava Gorica to Škopljica is a constant column every morning. And a lot of these drivers decide to go over Ig. And then there's even a burden, there's a lot of people from Kočev, Ribnica across the center of Iga, in places where our children go to school, where there's a school path where there's already so much traffic, because the municipality of Ig is expanding, especially the hilly part and so on. Like I said, every morning we listen to where the jams are, practically every morning in the same places, and we don't want to do anything for these places. The government says that this would parallelly establish a new system that would undermine efficiency and so on and that studies and practices so far have shown that the most appropriate public passenger transport management system is at the state level. I don't agree with that. And the explanation to settle this with the provinces can be quite acceptable, but the landscape is obviously within this mandate, or at least in some foreseeable time we will not accept it, and people are coming from the practice that you are talking about. And the practice has shown the need for city bus number 3 to drive to Škofljica or, I don't know, number 19 on Ig, not just to Podpeč or Jezer. And I don't know why we never know how to listen to practical problems, because, we know, before something turns around in this machine, it's been a couple of years, and we can wait forever for the landscape to come and we'll sort it out. That is why we have decided and proposed the law before us, and I think we should support it. And I wouldn't talk so bad about mayors that they're not interested. The mayors are very interested, and then they get an answer that the law does not allow this moment to happen and we have concluded the matter and there is nothing to be done about it. I will support the law because I want to enable the inhabitants of Škopljica, Grosuplja, Iga and all of these surrounding areas, which come to Ljubljana daily, one more acceptable transport. And it's not just the employees, as has already been said, that there are students, students, and then you have someone at every step who steps because Ig can drive one bus at eight in the morning, and then by twelve in the morning no one. All of you need to be taken care of, and that's not a lot of people. It also turned out that the city bus 6B, which runs to Internal Gorica, is full. There they arranged the parking lot and it is now a normal transport to Ljubljana, also much safer and, as I said, more environmentally friendly. I will support the marriage and I suggest you do the same for the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Clearly, the interest in people’s problems in this National Assembly is so small that we don’t really want to discuss it. Although we have heard the views of the parliamentary groups and the government on this bill. The government says it will actually solve public passenger traffic so that it will all work by the state, that of course it is a major problem because we do not have provinces. This is very interesting, which is also one of the arguments, because there are no provinces, we cannot have adequate public passenger transport. But very debaters also in the views of the parliamentary groups are concerned about what will happen to existing carriers, existing concessionaires who already have concessions and are, we have to admit here, part of the problem. The existing liner who drives from Kočev to Ljubljana an interstate bus and has one stop on Škofljica is now part of the problem, not part of the solution. Instead of looking for a solution to get as many passengers as possible, now, at the expense of the concessionaires who are existing, they suffer the public interest. And that's what we're talking about today. The fact that we are in confusion, as also the representatives of the parliamentary groups said, is also DeSUS, SD and LDS, and I do not understand that. I don't understand what a mess this is. Then the number of passengers is constantly falling. True, that's true, the number of passengers is falling. But now look at a concrete example of city bus number 6B Outside Gorica. There the number of passengers is increasing, but the arrangement of the system to drive the 6B Outward Gorica track follows exactly what is written in this proposal of the law. Two municipalities can arrange for an economic public service in urban transport, and there is probably an existing concessionaire. But the system is exactly the way it is, it works, and the passengers are more. I do not understand that the existing concessionaires, carriers, are so afraid to take into account this provision of this Article, where, in fact, the existing concessionaire adapts to the concession because no one takes anything away. For starters, the bill itself, we may read it slowly again. Without the congregation to do so, one or more congregations may be designated as an economic public service. As fellow Member Bogovic put it well earlier, because the congregations want to, they have a problem. The box has a particular problem. He joins Grosuplje, Ig. As we come from this area, this is known because the backs of Ljubljana are expanding. The Member of Parliament coming from Kočev also knows what will happen on the Box. There would be no confusion. A city bus would drive, and that's a good solution. And the directorate and the ministry should help with that. This proposal is not about any confusion, nor is it about the destruction of the public line passenger transport system, since it is well written that the conditions for the organisation and the manner in which line transport is carried out are prescribed by the Minister responsible for transport with the Regulation. We have also given the Minister in our proposal the competence, the authority not to destroy the system, so that with the existing concessionaires who are driving there he can prepare a good timetable, good for the passenger. Please, we in the National Assembly, we first turn this philosophy around. I agree that everything was not ideal in the past mandate, of course, it was not. Of course. It is no longer necessary to refer to the previous term every time. We listen to this every day. But there is a need to change philosophy and here I recommend to the ministry and to all of us, let us take the first small step. That's the way the system works. This system already works in Ljubljana. It works great against Vnanji Gorica, against Podpeč, but against Škofljica it cannot, nor against Grosuplje, nor against Ig and probably not against Domžalem. Why not? Because you say that the Road Transport Act does not allow this, except under a special, exceptional, I do not know what permission the Directorate has. But the system is good. Here's what I'm gonna say. The bill we are proposing today is already following the actual situation on the ground. If it was bad, they'd probably have cut track 6 to Vanji Gorica. Well, try directing this, cut the line and say that it's bad to introduce confusion and that existing concessionaires will fail. They won't! Put them in the system, that's why we have them. The carriers should be the first to be most interested in this. True, it is not only the Ljubljana municipalities, but I am convinced that there are several such migration communities that would like to establish urban transport. And you wouldn't mind if you were still driving the bus from Maribor to Ljubljana, like cross-border line traffic. No municipality is interested in breaking ties in Slovenia. But for those migrations in the field of several municipalities, say that Škofljica-Grosuplje should not have urban traffic among themselves, should not have a bus because it is written in law, and should tell people that because of the law. The proposal follows the actual situation on the ground, which is now arbitrary. Now someone decides, I don't know, but a guy starts to believe that the mayor and the director of the department are going to take over, and he says, okay, you get the consent, you drive because I don't know if there's a legal basis, I can say that because we like each other. [[...]] That's not good. And this law merely establishes order for the congregations to negotiate with one another. Where you have an existing concessionaire, you also have a director who will conclude an agreement with the municipalities and existing carriers within 30 days on how to adapt the lines, price list and timetable. However, the law provides for the protection of the public interest if this agreement is not reached - but I do believe that I know the Director of the Road Directorate so that he can do anything to achieve such an agreement - and then it would be directed by the Directorate to protect the public interest of passengers, not carriers. And that's the solution. Every day people ask how they can't get that threesome to the box. The municipal council of Grosuplje has already given the initiative to do so to Grosuplje. Let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do, let's Why not? Why wouldn't that work? And that's the first small step. This does not cause any confusion, no confusion. I believe in all of this, including integrated public passenger transport and comprehensive solutions. See, time is running out, time is running out, we are already in the second year of the mandate, and we are waiting for the law on integrated public passenger transport, which will eventually have to provide such a solution. But if we already have it, then let's make it possible, and I really appeal to all of us here to consider the needs of the passengers. I can't imagine how I can say that we can't bring urban transport into the neighboring congregation now, because that's what it says in the law, and because we're introducing this confusion, we're making a mess. But then, of course, the same passenger will say, "Yes, for God's sake, how can a six take you to Vanja Gorica? But how can he drive 19 to Podpeča, but he can't go to Škopljica, and it's the same law." That's the question. As I understand it, passenger data shows that the number of passengers has now begun to increase. Do we not believe that from this pool, where we now have problems due to the southern bypass, from Škofljica to Ljubljana, there would be no new passengers? Oh, we would. However, I am sure that an existing concessionaire driving from Kočev to Ljubljana would also find his place, as the proposal of this article allows him to conclude an agreement with the Directorate and the municipalities to adapt the price list, the timetable, so that he can integrate in this part where there would be duplication of lines to find a common language. So there would be no confusion. Only a good article of the proposal needs to be read, and it can be seen that the solution is actually the one that is good for passengers. Therefore, I suggest, of course, that there may be other improvements, something else that can be added, but let's move this matter forward, to the next stage of consideration, let's help people have quality public passenger transport. Outside, we are all also engaged in environmental aspects. Why the proposal to amend the Road Transport Act? Because it is now the only law that also regulates urban passenger traffic, which at least defines it. And that's that tiny change that already works, once again. No one here is gonna convince me that this thing isn't working because it's working. By means of this law, this amendment merely establishes a legal basis that this can truly live as in the field now is completely arbitrary. If not, I need an immediate response when the city transport will go to all the parts it can't now. Since I do not know the answer to this, we have also tabled this amendment so that they can be everywhere, but here I do agree, the municipalities know how to handle it, they know the problems, and I am sure they would not just jump through this article and introduce urban transport on average. I really don't believe this. But they do have the possibility, the possibility is that now a kind of partnership is formed between the congregation and the direction of a kind of partnership to be agreed on, but not that the position of authority determines driving order and may be decided even beyond the wishes and needs of the passengers. And once again, this is also a change to change that not all are carriers, that they are the first and must be the first passengers to have public and quality passenger traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožko Godec has entered the floor. He won't discuss it. Franz Pukšič, he won't discuss it. Franz Jursha, he won't discuss it. Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to advertise much, but the debate encouraged me, especially when we're mayors again, and on the other hand, I notice that half of them are present in the Mayors of State, saying that the mayors are only interested in getting some sort of solution in this country in a good way. So thank you for the warning that the mayors are also present and that we are harmful, I hope we are not. As far as this law is concerned, I have listened carefully to Mr Verlich and I think he has taken very well exactly what this law introduces in this system of passenger transport. In fact, there is now a certain discretion in the existing law, which the Directorate has. As we speak of the need to remove bureaucratic obstacles in all areas, there is also some obstacle to some normal cooperation between the congregations, and with these minor corrections to this law, that is exactly what we are doing. And, as has been said, this law does not force anyone to use it, but it gives him a legal opportunity to have a proper conversation with all those involved in this passenger traffic and to be legally covered. It was also said that certain cooperation, certain connections between the municipalities and the municipalities already existed and certain lines were also introduced in another area, not only in Ljubljana. Even in Primorska, and somewhere else. In fact, this amendment of the law would allow individual municipalities to agree, in a way, in their discussions with the Directorate, with carriers on a better quality of transport. All in the light of better services and services for citizens, of course. I still believe that this marriage, which is actually well-intentioned and here I don't know if anyone can find any intrigue, will be supported. Otherwise, we are in fact giving the possibility that some of the acquired rights in an area, as they were in the feudal times, are definitive. This law does not create any new differences, but allows a better impact in this area to be achieved through an appropriate debate between stakeholders. If mayors and municipalities are able to handle other matters, I do not know why it would not be possible to achieve better solutions in this area with appropriate discussions between individual entities. If they're good for garbage, why wouldn't they be good for transportation? On the other hand, we all note that the number of passengers in public transport is decreasing, particularly on these inter-tier and other lines, and that this system is extremely rigid and unfavourable, so the number of lines, carriers and everything has decreased. This law would in some way allow those who have an interest in establishing a better system to also try to get carriers and to establish a better system, better timetables and better services for citizens. However, I would recommend that you read in more detail these two articles, which in fact do not prejudge anything, continue to give the final word to the Ministry by decision. However, in the preliminary procedure, it is possible for all stakeholders to agree on this acquisition and this service. I absolutely support this proposal, which we have tabled, because it makes it possible to actually improve the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There was a mag in the debate. Your Clavor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps we all remember well the times when we had the so - called paradigm of general human resistance. We now have a paradigm of general government resistance in this mandate. Not one proposal proposed by the SDS Group is capable of further consideration. The government is against no argument, others are against because the government is against it. I think that the only paradigm that works in this mandate is the paradigm that we need to be against all the proposals proposed by the SDS and other opposition parties. It's the only thing that doesn't need coalition coordination. All right. Priors, dogma. Your Honor! This proposal is a proposal that enables the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and users, so to speak, to passengers, we allow the providers of these services to better organise themselves, to make use of those capacities and to pick up those passengers who are not covered by this mode of transport so far, not through railways or through public line or suburban transport. On several occasions we had the opportunity to talk at many meetings when we were dealing with the so-called G2 connection, this is a road on the highway ring. In February 2009, the inter-ministerial conference was held, the government organised this meeting, how to approach this problem, the project, so that the matter will be implemented as quickly as possible and that we will avoid or relieve those traffic congestions that we hear about every day in traffic information. Every day, several times a day we hear that traffic is hampered, hampered, slowed by Skofljica v Ljubljana. There is no broadcast on traffic information where this message would not be available. However, nothing happens in this case at all. We have problems at the Ministry of Agriculture, we have problems at the Ministry of the Environment, there are problems at the Ministry of Transport and so on. Nothing happens. Always some tricks, some reasons why some things in this section, which is actually very problematic and will be even more so because the concentration of many functions is done in Ljubljana, do nothing. We are able to say a lot of things through the media, to accuse someone of not doing anything, but when we come to specific problems, to concrete projects, to concrete solutions, there is a general government resistance. I think that alternative solutions must be found for all such road, traffic and traffic sections. It is incomprehensible that the section of the former main road, the section of the road "brotherhood and unity" going from Ljubljana to Škopljica, is not wide enough to make a tripod or a quadruple. That's incomprehensible. There was no problem in Celowska. On this part, it is very difficult, apart from two belts, one for up, one for down, and three metres of side belts, which no one uses, on both sides, we cannot even make a tripway to drive two columns to Ljubljana at traffic jams and two back at traffic jams. And we could move it like they're doing somewhere else. The transport study concludes that this is not possible. Of course it's impossible if there's no interest. On a road that is 12 meters wide, certainly, and with sidewalks more, which are also very poorly exploited, we are not able to make two lanes in one direction and solve the problem. There is nothing we can do to capture at least part of the transport from Škofljica to Ljubljana by rail. There's nothing you can do. And when we propose a variant, a nice variant, an appropriate option to enable, say, the "Park and Drive" system on the Skofljica, is the government against. This is a solution that allows the extension of local transport or the regulation of any other form to Ljubljana. We're talking about tips, we're talking about environmental burdens, we're talking about congestion, and when someone comes up with some kind of solution to get rid of all of this, and it's very sovereign to put "a front", the whole coalition is against. I would expect a minister to be here today when we have a transport package at this meeting of the National Assembly. Not only does he go through a variety of celebrations, which he finds time to be here and in an open conversation, he also discusses these matters in an open communication. You know, it's certainly not appropriate for a representative of the government to come forward with the word to make a final "speach", which is a copy of that first, introductory one. This is probably not the purpose of the parliamentary debate, nor is it the level of parliamentary debate. Even when we propose, say, concrete solutions, in terms of amendments, say in the 2010 budget, for the 2011 budget, the government is against, the coalition against things that solve the key problems. I am sure that this is not how these projects can be pursued. Although progress has been made since no one accused us of stealing a government idea, I must admit that progress has been made, because in some cases we have been accused so far of stealing a government solution that is not yet a year from now, as in the agricultural land law, when we listened to representatives of coalition parties, that we stole a solution last July. Today we are, February will be every time, and it has been said that this solution will come by the end of August at the latest, I think that's what colleague Weber said, Sayovic said in early September, the representative of the Ministry Mrs Bukovec said she would be there in October. We reinstated the law in December, and you rejected it. Now it's the end of January and there's no law. He's still gone. When we proposed a second package of measures to get out of the economic crisis, the government said that some are good and some are already being implemented. That's what they say. We stole them again. Interesting approach, amazing. Today, we have here a rare law that has not been stated in the government’s view that something has already been done, or that we have taken something away from them. This is the original solution in this marriage. For some areas around the kernels, which have a lot of absorption power, because there are jobs that are targeted at a lot of traffic in one direction or another, they solve certain problems. And I think that this measure would certainly make an important contribution to alleviating the situation in some urban areas. Definitely. A lot of people, if they had a chance, would use other systems. Not everyone has the great joy of "crowding" in the city streets and looking for parking lots and parking lots to pay dearly. This could be handled in a similar way as it was arranged on the Long Bridge. There's no problem. We can have a free large parking lot, several thousand vehicles can park there and take a few buses to the center or locations where they have their jobs. However, we are against such solutions that allow things to improve clearly. It's incomprehensible. And in this case this will not be the first time in this mandate. We have a lot of words, very excited about how to design some solutions consensually, how we will work together, how we will support all the good solutions. This has been repeated several times by the Prime Minister in this mandate. In the next speech, when he was representing the ministerial team. Almost every question we ask from the opposition answers in the same way. However, when there are some good solutions, when there is no problem of supporting this, because it does not bring any burdens, this law has no financial implications for the budget, there is no possibility of supporting such a solution, there is no possibility. Interesting. It has no budgetary implications, as it is only a matter of regulating normative conditions so that certain solutions can be approached, but this is a problem. I think that the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Slovenia should also have a more prudent approach. If you do not have any ambition to solve problems, to accept solutions that make it possible to address the shortcomings of problems in the transport system, and they are not small, and they are cheap, free of charge, practically without any action, then something is wrong. If it is not possible to provide conditions for the extension of the line, if it is not possible to cross a few lines on a road, so that two columns come into the city and one from the city, and one from the city in the afternoon or not, then something is wrong. We're talking about problems, we're talking about butterflies, we're talking about how it's not possible to make commotions in some areas. However, where only a few lines need to be drawn up or an act adopted to relax these matters, it is possible, as previously explained by colleague Verlic, who acts on behalf of the proposer, that something is wrong. I do not understand that you are so firm in defending good proposals, good solutions. This is incomprehensible, and it is also difficult to tell anyone in this country, it is difficult to tell those who come from Medvod's side, it is even harder to tell those who come from Skofljica's side towards Ljubljana. It's hard to tell those who live on a box that something can't be done. It's hard for everyone to tell. When we also proposed an amendment to upgrade or complete the reconstruction of the railway line against Kočev, it was a coalition against what is incomprehensible. In the previous term, we passed an emergency investment law on the railway network, and I think there were over 100 billion old tolars, and we started to rebuild this line. It's supposed to be over this year. I hope it does. When we suggested that this would continue until Kočev to get the possibility of introducing passenger rail transport on this line, the amendment coalition did not support it. Even those of whom I would most expect to support this were against, for reasons of another nature, not just the membership of coalitions. As long as we are so aware of our actions, then it is difficult to expect good projects, good exit strategies, then it is difficult to expect a good implementation of projects, because first there is a conflict in Parliament, whose idea is whether there will be coalitions or opposition, and then the same is repeated within the government, because it is also important whether there is one coalition party or another. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This system is only being upgraded. [[..]] This approach is only being upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Although we are talking about a law that deals with line public transport, we are talking about all the laws that we are going to consider today. So, Presidents, allow me to give a clear answer to what the Government has in this area, as Mr Tanko also mentioned; otherwise, it speaks somewhat more modernly, in paradigms, but I think it is understandable to everyone when we are talking about guidelines. The government's orientation is not that it simply opposes good solutions. If it is possible to place them both in the legislation in force and in certain other regulations, such as the national programme and so on, there is no problem at all. However, if they intervene in such a way that they cannot be placed in the provisions of existing legislation or national programmes, this should be noted. If I touch exactly the amendment in the budget, as we discussed in the budget, I also very nicely told Mr Tank that it would be good to ask him whether he should be put in or not before any amendments were tabled. And just to update the railway line against Kočev, the government has given a very clear written answer that the amendment is not necessary. The amendment is not necessary because the funds are provided. And today, listening to how well - meaning this proposal was, is really irrelevant. The amendment was not supported because it was unnecessary because the funds were provided. I would point out, however, that there are quite a few people in the Slovenian Railway System who come from the SDS policy option, but who are clearly opposed to this route being completed in 2011. I would also like to draw public attention to this. And I also ask Mr Tank to ask who these people are in this system that opposes it. Then he will do something good in the effort to connect this direction of Slovenia or this part of Slovenia as soon as possible with the appropriate railway connection with our capital. And this is the common interest of one Member and another coming from this area so that we can successfully resolve this matter. However, as regards the law itself, which we are currently dealing with and liner urban and inter-territorial transport, I must say very clearly, because it has also been mentioned that Ljubljana would have no interest in expanding urban passenger transport also towards Škofljica. Ljubljana has officially submitted an application for the establishment of a new 3B line. And this is also agreed with the Municipality of Škofljica. The interest of the municipality of Škofljica and the municipality of Ljubljana is to establish this 3B line. What is happening today and what is enabling today's legislation is that for this route the consent of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads is obtained because the cross-border traffic is regulated by a contract of concession. And if a contract is concluded, then this must be taken into account, because it is a legal act that we cannot pass. If we don't take this into account, we start a fight and there's no solution. I will not comment on why some of the lines that you are referring to around Ljubljana have been established without the consent of the Directorate. Clearly, something has happened in contravention of the legal order. However, in particular in this case, coordination between the line trans-national carrier and also between the municipality of Ljubljana or the city passenger transport is in the stage. The agreement to be reached is only in order to harmonise the timetable and to harmonise the ticket price. And that's what we don't have in Slovenia. And this law speaks of the fact that a line can also be established and that this price agreement is not even so binding, necessary, someone is just informed that it works. But I would like to point out the legal consequences of a rule that extends to the rights acquired. Today, while we are at first reading, we do not have an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which would also give us an answer to some claims when you try to imagine that this is such a good solution, such an effective solution. If we were in second reading, the Legislative and Legal Service would certainly point out that we cannot act beyond the applicable rules, beyond the concessional relations concluded, but an agreement should be reached, and then this proposal, which is truly good and I support it, is also one of the small solutions for mitigating the traffic tip in the Skofljica area. Extending the line to Skofljica is a solution. In my opinion, this proposal is flawed only because the 3B line is foreseen from Škofljica to Rudnik and then the passenger has to move on track 3 and move forward towards the city. It is an additional sedentary and added waste of time, and thus a little more problems, whether this route will really be interesting enough for passengers or not. It would be much better if this line were from Škofljica to Ljubljana or a hub where more buses are available, and then passengers will choose the direction they need. The second problem I see is that at the time of the season the departures are proposed, say from Škofljica, first at 5:10 p.m., next only at 6:00 p.m., next only 6.40 p.m. and then again at 7:40 p.m., then at 8:20 p.m. and then at 9:40 p.m. and then only 11.40 p.m. The density of urban passenger transport departures is also one which must be in line with the needs of those who come to the capital in order to arrive in particular on time at their jobs. And if this delay between leaving one bus and another is almost 40 minutes or one hour, then very few people will decide. Why is there such a great distance between these departures? Because if we want more frequent departures, more means must be provided to make more buses available. The weakness of this law is precisely because it does not allow municipalities to arrange for urban passenger traffic outside one congregation to receive additional funds. This law does not allow municipalities that agree to set up their own regional transport somehow, to obtain additional funds, but it is exclusively their cost. If this is exclusively their cost, it would probably be very appropriate for us to write down a solution in this law in order to provide funds also for the subsidisation of line transport established by the municipalities. This is a key flaw in this law. Today we have in law the possibility of subsidising cross-border line transport. All liners have the option of subsidising these lines to maintain them, even if there are not enough passengers. And that is exactly what I have also pointed out on behalf of the parliamentary group that we already have a very uncoordinated situation in subsidising line bus transport and subsidising rail passenger transport. Two laws regulate that. We would now need another one to regulate the subsidisation of municipal cross-border transport. So it's the third law. And that's what we want to point out. Do not work to make matters more complicated, but work towards an effective solution, represented by one ticket for both line and rail transport, a single price within it. And passengers will be happy to choose to use liner transport. This time, I warn you, we have a largely unresolved problem of how to ensure more frequent departures of buses from Škofljica than at 40 minutes or for one hour. If we do not provide additional funds, the congregations themselves will not be able to do so. And that's what's crucial and more important right now than avoiding the board's agreement. Avoiding the agreement of the Directorate under this Act is one of procedural options, but it is not an effective solution. Above all, it is not a solution that would actually allow more municipalities to connect where it would be necessary to establish a sufficiently dense liner network of transports, so that in fact all those coming into the city decide not to go to the city with a car, the car parks and then take the city passenger transport forward. This is what we need to achieve. Unfortunately, this law does not fulfil this to the extent possible. We therefore oppose this and have also made it very clear that we are expecting the Ministry of Transport, because we could have passed an integrated public passenger transport law in the previous term. This marriage has been in the drawers for four or maybe eight years. And I agree that today, too, there is not enough activity to adopt this law. I think that this is also one of the good warnings that we can draw up today in addressing this law, in order to speed up the preparation, finalisation of the law on integrated public passenger transport, where we will look at how much resources we have available in Slovenia for school transport, urban transport, regional transport, and then also identify a precise coster, which is extremely important, so as to know how much of the lines will need to be subsidised from the state budget, when there is not enough funds to sell cards or funds provided by municipalities that some routes can function. I really believe that the most important message at this point of the agenda is that the Ministry of Transport completes the preparation of the Integrated Public Passenger Transport Act as soon as possible and puts it into the procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Dr. Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The problem raised by the vast majority of Members today is systematically addressed by the preparation of the concept of integrated public passenger transport. In this regard, the Ministry of Transport is preparing the final text of the Integrated Public Passenger Transport Act, which will be received shortly into the procedure of the National Assembly. A portal for integrated public passenger transport is being prepared, an economic analysis of future tariff zones is being prepared for the introduction of a single ticket and a process is being prepared for the integration of all subsystems between them. By this approach and in this way we believe that we can systematically solve the problem of public passenger transport in Slovenia, which you have already mentioned several times today. Unfortunately, the proposal we have before us today does not allow us such a systemic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. This debate, which has been today, just as it has been, further convinces me to find, on behalf of the applicants, that the proposal that we have put forward today is actually a good one. In fact, if we allow him here in the National Assembly to continue his journey, he will be able to make further improvements. And I agree with my predecessor, Mr. Webro. Yeah. Enable, do not enable, allow all together to continue the debate in the next phase and let us add further funding. In fact, it is our interest, the interest of the municipalities, the interest of the state, probably also the interest of the ministry and the government, that with good urban transport, which will be connected between municipalities, not only within one municipality and with the special agreement of the directorate, we get functional urban transport. And this information and this information that you've told us that everything is already arranged for the transport of the city bus from Škofljica to Rudnik, that it's actually just a timetable. I agree with you, it's very bad, it's not suitable for urban transport, but it's actually waiting for the Director's approval. So, then only the Ministry of Transport is blocking something if that's what it looks like under existing legislation. So, the directorate doesn't issue that consent. Apparently, she betrayed him when he had to take the bus to Vanjni Gorica, and there must have been a quick consensus. Interesting. Where exactly are the problems in existing solutions? I got the feeling that we agreed that there was no problem that city buses would drive past the congregation’s borders. I got this feeling here and that there were really these arguments why you don't support, even now at the end, Mr Secretary of State, that we are saving a comprehensive, systematic, judgmental one. But people don't have city transportation. If we read again, just once again, if we look at these articles, they are talking exactly about what is being discussed all the time today, and now we are repeating it. We are talking about how two congregations or more congregations can organize an economic public service. And let us be concrete, if we decide in the municipality of Grosuplje, we can make excellent urban transport between Grosuplje, Škofljica and Ljubljana by bus. Of course, there is a problem because there is probably a line of concessionaires that runs very parallel and goes from Ljubljana to Škofljica and Grosuplja to Ivančno Gorica. But this proposal of ours has not forgotten this concessionaire. No, no, no. He didn't even forget the Ministry. According to our proposal, the Minister has the power to prescribe the conditions for the organisation and manner of carrying out line transport in urban transport. No confusion will arise because the conditions of the Minister for the whole country will be prescribed for all congregations. And that's what we're proposing. This is the first thing that does not destroy the public passenger transport system, does not create confusion, but sets up a common denominator. And this is the responsibility of the minister. Next thing. With this existing concessionaire driving from Ljubljana to Ivančna Gorica, we now get urban transport, say, along with, why the mandatory consent? No, no, no. You don't have to. There is sufficient agreement, however, as we have also written, that the Roads Directorate, now as a partner with the municipalities that are likely to be a credible partner, and also with the existing carrier, who now receives so-called competition, should not think in public passenger traffic about competition, we can only think about synergies, and that was the purpose of this article, an agreement with which until the end of the concession, because we know that it has a concession and that there is likely to be some damage, but that the lines, prices and timetable of public line transport are adapted to urban line transport. And we added this, given the newly expected number of passengers. We are confident as proposing that if you introduce urban passenger traffic, you can actually make a new offer and that attracts passengers. And I'm sure that's what all the winners are with. Also an existing concessionaire. Why would he be afraid that he would lose something, but if he were to be in town transport and adjust the price line and the timetable, what Mr Weber had pointed out nicely is that now the driving order is strange, it is in this supplement, so it is written to prepare a good timetable, to be satisfied with the existing concessionaire, who will drive from Ljubljana to Ivančke Gorica on a certain timetable and so that the city transport can also function. But who has to be satisfied? Passengers. And in the end, so do all of us who look at this from other perspectives, as formerly colleague Tanko warned, stalled, crowded, poor infrastructure and so on. And that's the meaning of these changes, and it wants us as proponents and well-intentioned. But only the last sentence is the one that says if the deal doesn't come to an agreement, then that's what the directorate does, according to the law. Then this power will take place. In particular, it shall take place in order to protect public interest in the field of public passenger transport. I don't see it as one stone to the mosaic of creating confusion, but as a stone to a mosaic that creates one picture of public passenger traffic. And that's a good thing that's actually already working. And it works on the case in Ljubljana when the city bus goes against Brezovica and forwards to Vnanje Gorica as it drives towards Podpeč, when somehow it cannot drive towards Domžal. I don't know why not. And he can't drive towards the Shkofljica or towards the Ig. Why don't we integrate it? Unfortunately, I am talking more about Ljubljana's migration, but I am sure that you would find something similar in other municipalities that have migration problems when you may have a large factory in one village and daily migration is from several municipalities. There too, perhaps excellent urban transport could function on the basis of this provision of the law. If you allow us, as a proposaler, to move forward with this law, we can only improve it, we will only add this part to the subsidy, as regards the additional resources. Why not? The problem is already today. We can save him today. I myself cannot explain why the proposal creates confusion, but when we see the case that already works for the city bus to drive on Brezovica, it will be on Škofljica, with some agreement from the directorate. Why create some exceptions if we see that the needs of the congregations have grown? As my colleague Bogovic put it well, the mayors are aware of their difficulties in organising urban passenger transport, especially in the municipal municipalities probably. And it's not that it's like that, but it's because these are the needs of people who migrate to the capital and from the capital. Why not allow this to happen and with such a simple solution solve the problem. You know why? So the Roads Directorate won't be cramped, either. Before that, you said how to drive to Brezovica, but perhaps something was wrong with the legal order in force. I'm sure it probably wasn't in conflict with the legal order. However, if there has been, if not a second one, another argument at the systemic level is that we should turn on the green light for this law. It would be very difficult for me to feel like the Director of the Roads Directorate, that I am now issuing some kind of consent, but I actually don't know if it's in line with the law or not in accordance with the law. More than that, I wonder how some concessionaire can make it possible and say that the city traffic is to be taken by city buses, but somewhere it's an obstacle. That's even worse. This is actually the moment when they have to cut down legislation here in the National Assembly. Public passenger transport is not a commercial good, it is a social one and is in the public interest. And here we must act as guardians of public interest and protect the passenger by giving institutions the opportunity to organise it in a good and quality manner. And here we have done nothing but this - a proposal that two municipalities may sovereignly, two, three, I don't know, those who have an interest, agree, organise an economic public service, inform the direction, because of course there can also be other bus services. A deal is made, pricelists coordinate, timetables - and city traffic can get a new start. And I'm sure he'll get it. However, if we just say that this creates some confusion, but we see in the particular case of Ljubljana that it is not the case that certain city buses are driving outside the border of the municipality, but that in this existing law is more an exception than a rule that is still the direction of pressure in some places, I think it is right to correct it. Of course, the worst part is that the reason why marriage does not receive the necessary support is because it is not a real proposalr. Yeah, well, I think it's a shame. That wasn't our purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. All those you wanted and were reported, you've got your word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I can see one hand. Anyone else? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you. The difference between what I say or what is the Government's position is that if we adopt this law and allow the municipalities to establish their own cross-border line transport, this line transport with concessionaires must be aligned. I assume that there has been agreement and agreement with concessionaires where the urban lines have been extended. Therefore, it is likely that there was no problem that this line could be established. It was not a problem in the direction, but it is likely that there was agreement with this concessionaire. Without this agreement and agreement on the withdrawal of the section of the line, I do not think it is possible to issue an agreement from the Directorate. This law refers to the fact that this consensus is not necessary. Thus, a dual passenger transport system can be established and only when they are at odds with each other, and when they are at odds, passenger traffic usually ceases to work, and this is to the detriment of passengers, which would result in the power of direction or of the Ministry to react. And that's what's causing the confusion. However, the legal rules must be such as to try to prevent confusion due to their content. And that's why consensus is important. I also picture the content of the agreement, certainly by the Directorate, in such a way that it is adopted on the basis of an agreement between the concessionaire and during the desire to establish a new urban passenger transport line. Financial implications must also be identified in this agreement. These financial consequences are those that must also be recorded in an act. It is impossible to do so without an act which also takes legal form for itself in the sense that it is necessary to provide certain additional funds to one or the other. That's what we need. If we don't have it, we haven't saved anything. And let me tell you one more time about the case of the box. The interests of the concessionaires are to be included in this line with their vehicles, so as to complement this timetable so that, as is now envisaged, not be for forty minutes, for one hour, but that their vehicles also stop at these stations and complement this timetable. And this is being coordinated right now, and we need to agree on that. Of course, the ticket price should also be determined. If all in the area where this additional line urban passenger traffic is intended to operate, then the ticket price must also be the same for both the concessionaire and the one carrying out urban passenger transport, or they must charge the same cost to the user. And that's all that needs to be determined and it's working. Thus, this legislation allows this to be recorded in the form of a consensus and the case is pending. But if we adopt this law, we will have a conflict, and this conflict can then continue indefinitely, and of course there is no solution. Unfortunately, this law should also be rejected and the directive should be warned that it will reach agreement with all carriers as soon as possible and issue an appropriate timetable for this line and also provide for appropriate subsidies for the carriers who are driving on this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I asked you to sign up first, but I really didn't give you time to sign up. Now I am warned by Mrs Jeraiev that she should have her hand raised. I didn't see her, and I believe her, but let me give you my word. But I'm asking if anyone else wants to sign up for the debate. Have him sign up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj and then the debate is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, but I was holding my hand up. I don't know if you've seen it. As I said before, the country should be interested in restricting urban traffic and can ensure this in such a way as to allow for the expansion of urban transport or urban transport outside the city's borders. Today, Škofljica has also been mentioned several times before we meet this roadblock, which we are talking about for 10 years, it would probably be one of the possible solutions. My colleague says people won't decide to take the bus. I am sure that they will be for a very simple reason, because not only are they standing in a column on the Skofljica for quite some time, some 10 minutes after unnecessary, they have another problem when they come to the city, that they have nowhere to park or they can park in one of the garage houses with, we know what the prices are. As already mentioned for the bus station for 6B in Vanj Gorica, it was originally, since no one will drive, and there will be too few passengers. Today I see it's not like that. Many decide to go to the city with a city bus, which is logical, because otherwise they have to lose another half hour to find a parking lot somewhere and then they have to be lucky that the city manager does not dig them up or any other, now we have a double order of how to park the wrong ones because the city is not enough in Ljubljana's depth. Some of you say they'd fight and it'd be confusing. I would like to tell you that our mayors are not very confused or are significantly less confused than maybe someone at the transport ministry who does not drive from or from Škofljica every day. Why are the mayors the first to see the problem? Because every day they have people at the door telling them about these problems that they face each day on their way to work. This is not only a problem of the bishop or the bishop, but also of the Great Lašča, because people are waiting for Ljubljana, but they say how you cannot fix this thing and it takes time and nothing can be arranged. My colleague Weber said that there would be a problem with subsidization. True, but the congregations are even willing to subsidize, to co-finance urban transport, because this solves many of their people’s problems because they are interested in solving them. I guess that subsidy isn't that problematic, either. I know the concrete problem for Brezovica, where the first year of the subsidy was so much, this year is less, and next year it will not be at all because there are enough passengers. Looking for excuses not to do anything, I find it rather inappropriate. I propose that we all give the law a joint agreement, and then that it be amended, given what has been said in the debate, and that we can improve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further discussion will be decided tomorrow in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of railway lines in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed drafters of the law, Dr. Peter Verlic, for further explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We are convinced that recent events indicate a serious danger that transport corridors, including rail corridors, run past the countries of Slovenia, and therefore the resolution is too small. We need a law whereby due to the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in international transport corridors and due to their respective transport connectivity, priority sections of the railway line, which form an integral part of the legal text, are established. These sections of the railway line are: Koper, Black Bridge, Divača; Divača node Black Kal, state border with the Republic of Italy; Divaca-Ljubljana including the bridge Ljubljana; Ljubljana-Zidani bridge; Zidani bridge-Dobova; Zidani bridge-Maribor-state border with the Republic of Austria; Prague-Hodoš-state border with the Republic of Hungary; Ljubljana-Esenice, including connection of the airport Jožet Pučnika Ljubljana; Ljubljana-Grosuplje-Kočevje-Crnomelj; Celje-Velenje-Dravograd-state border with the Republic of Austria, Lendava-Murska Sobota; Jesenice-Rateče-State border with the Republic of Italy, Poljčane-Slovenianska Konjice-Zreče; Ljubljana-Vrhnika and Kranji-Tržič. The law also defines the standards that follow from the international agreements that the Republic of Slovenia has also signed, namely that the basic cross, the fifth and tenth corridors are built as high-capacity electrified double-tracks for speeds of at least 160 kilometres per hour, equipped with modern signalling devices and conforming to technical standards for achieving European rail interoperability and for other routes technical standards of an appropriate level are also defined. We're also proposing a deadline. The deadline is for the basic cross following the resolution on national development projects, and at the end of 2023, for the completion of all sections 31. 12. 2030. And what is important is that it is specifically defined that the construction of railway sections is in the public interest, which is extremely important for the Republic of Slovenia. The sources of funding are also described. They are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia by borrowing, from European funds, from the share of tolls collected for freight vehicles, but also from funds provided under a public-private partnership or by local communities, in accordance with the law governing this area. In order to finance the priority sections, we also propose that a specific target of at least 0.9% of gross social product per annum should be made available in the budgets from 2012 to 2030, but that certain issues should be addressed, as usual for each cross-border railway section, for each such section also be covered by a specific law. I suggest you support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Igor Jakomin, State Secretary, Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The proposer proposes the adoption of a law to accelerate the construction of priority railway sections, simplifying and expediting the procedures for the preparation of documentation, simplifying and expediting the procedures for issuing all necessary permits and simplifying and expediting the acquisition of land and property. The Ministry of Justice does not agree with this, as a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure is being prepared to address this issue, a bill on the provision of public infrastructure investment funds is being prepared and a proposal is being prepared for a law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure in a single way whereby the Government intends to define the procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans and the issues of land or rights to them necessary for the construction of this infrastructure, which are already in cross-cutting coordination. On this basis, we believe that the issue that the proposed law deals with will be dealt with more comprehensively with by the aforementioned acts. Allow me a few more words about the above three documents that the Government is preparing. On the basis of an analysis of the existing state of the railway infrastructure, an analysis of the implementation of the investments set out in the national programme adopted in 1996 and based on the revised baselines in view of the integration into the European Union and the transport and transport policies themselves of the European Union, including the interoperability of the Community rail system, a new national programme has begun to be drawn up. Given that the railway area does not only cover new constructions, but also the maintenance of railway infrastructure and the provision of public economic services for maintenance and traffic management, the national programme includes the provision of funds for the whole railway area. This is the only way to ensure adequate transparency over the necessary resources and to ensure their optimal use. The national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure will provide a comprehensive solution to all activities such as documentation preparation, prioritisation and implementation time, financial resources and the identification of financial flows for individual projects over a certain period of time. The national programme will also become the basis for the preparation of multi-annual and annual plans for the implementation of individual infrastructure railway projects. The basic objective of the law on the provision of public rail infrastructure resources is to set resources for the purpose of raising funds for investments and maintaining public railway infrastructure, which mainly covers the period from 2010 to 2023. In order to achieve the objective, resources shall be identified directly, i.e. the annual road traffic vehicle duty and the port Koper concession fee, and it shall be determined that the funds that the authority conducting investments in public railway infrastructure receives each year for the preparation, organisation and management of investments. The law further lays down the use of these funds, namely to carry out investments and maintain public railway infrastructure, as defined in the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure or on the basis of annual investment plans and annual plans for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. The basic objective of the law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure into the premises is to lay down procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans that plan certain types of networks and transport, energy and water infrastructures, as well as the issue of land production for them, thereby promoting the construction of strategically important lineways, as well as the railways under consideration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. With regard to the proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of railways in the Republic of Slovenia, we have assessed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that it is high time to offer a substantive solution and in this regard we have also proposed this law. Of course, the resolution itself will not save us. One of these, for another type of transport, has already been discussed today, but when we talk about a large system such as the Slovenian Railway System, we need to go beyond certain frameworks and make appropriate substantive proposals. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that it is in this short but very important law, when we talk about railways and railway infrastructure, perhaps with some improvements that will be made through the procedure, through consideration, to complement the proposal of our law and thus to obtain the best solution. We are aware and in some way also accept the arguments of the Government or the Ministry of Transport, which says that all things, all the content is already ready to be prepared in a comprehensive, organised manner and we expect Members and Members to receive as soon as possible the content of certain legislation in this area. However, since it is not, we have assessed that it is right to do so and to make a proposal. What is it, exactly? If we were to go into the content of the current situation on the railway in Slovenia, we would find that we are one of the members of the European Community, so we tried to take into account and upgrade, to incorporate all the directives and the necessary legislation into the existing legislation governing the field of railways, so that we could meet some criteria. However, we did not realize that as a full member of the EU we are also obliged to ensure minimum standards when we are talking about the capacity and equipment of railways in the broadest sense of the word. This means that all operators coming from the community have equal access and use of public rail infrastructure and, in this regard, adequate financing and provision of public rail infrastructure should be made in parallel with time. And not only in railways and railway tracks, but also in telecommunications and signal-safety devices. If we have ever had a very serious conversation about the railway, then we have often found it useful when it happened on the rail tracks at the level crossings of a serious road accident with a tragic outcome. That's when we spent a lot of time. However, if we were to devote time to substantive solutions, we would provide funding sources, but of course Slovenian railways today would be somehow in step with other neighbours, such as Italian, Austrian, Hungarian, railways. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have identified priority sections of the railway lines. This is mainly the rail line, which is on the fifth or tenth corridor. You know, it doesn't help if we have modern locomotives. These are electric locomotives, which are too heavy to drive on all tracks of Slovenian railways. Or we have modern locomotives for which we don't have an electric rolling stock. We have a railway line, but we don't have any electricity. We found ourselves in a situation where we should all really be aware together, especially the government or the competent ministry, that these are very serious things that need to be addressed immediately. As I said, a resolution in this area will not save us. We believe that it is too small, so we also offer appropriate substantive changes to the law, which is not so demanding, since it contains only twelve articles. It is content, it is not caprice, it is seriousness that guarantees and is of national importance and thus allows the Republic of Slovenia to participate equally and equally in the field of railways in the functioning of the European Community. We have somehow tried to divide the priority of individual sections in Article 2 of the content. It is therefore not possible to overlook the fact that within this we have also tried to compose those railway sections that have once been, but that there were then policy and economic decisions that are no longer necessary. Other members of the European Community have also served to preserve those non-profitable parts of railway lines, to freeze them somehow, to leave them in nature and to restore them later, and to use them only and, if not for the transport of goods, for tourist or other attractive purposes. In the European Union, there are individual countries that have already learned ten or twenty years ago that rail transport is one of the most profitable for its operation and for ensuring a clean environment. Our strategy was based on the development of motorways, we gave them even the advantage, and we forgot about the tracks of Slovenian railways. With regard to the specific sections listed in Article 2, it is also possible to assess how to change priorities, and we agree with that. However, as regards the first category of railway sections covering the 5th and 10th transport corridors, it is necessary to maintain this proposal. However, as I have already said, there may also be some part of the route that would necessarily need to be revived in order to revitalize it, including some other members of the European Union, and I am thinking mainly of the Austrian part, namely the Ljutomer-Gornja Radgona-Radgesburg and further to Austria. We also have many of these sections in agreement with the Republic of Hungary. Some concrete agreements have already been on the level between countries, but they have stalled. Let me remind you that over the last mandate period 2004-2008, we have put a great deal of emphasis on the rail system. All the necessary railway legislation has been amended in this particular mandate and thus the conditions for the next step have been given. The railways are in a strange situation today - and this is what we say all the time. Instead of dealing with how to create new products, the main activity of the railway is nothing more than transporting cargo, transporting goods and transporting passengers. Railways in their basic mission or the provision of their services have no other option than transporting passengers and transporting goods or things. It is in this regard that the country, as such, should monitor the situation throughout, but unfortunately we have been holding on to perhaps the less important and necessary content that Slovenian Railways are currently putting in place for decades, twenty years ago. As a result, the Slovenian Railways, with their railway infrastructure, with their track sections, which are essential for the takeover of freight from different directions, are in a situation where certain cargoes are virtually rejected because they do not have, as I said, adequate wagons for the transport of such loads, are not equipped with railway lines or individual track sections or simply because competition compared to road traffic is too much, logistically organised. If the railway does not have the appropriate infrastructure to take over such loads simply, this is done by road hauliers who are extremely well organised and have modern trucks compared to the railway. By doing so, we are pushing the national railway carrier into a deeper crisis than the Slovenian railways have experienced all the time. Of course, this will mean that Slovenian railways, due to the state of the railway infrastructure, will not be able to take over the loads that are on the market, which consequently also affects the scope of the work itself at the annual level. Therefore, it is also noted and noted that the number of employees is too high, so it is not surprising that with the start of the new leadership on the Slovenian Railways, the worst incision that affects the widest crowds has occurred first, as 1,075 people have gone on hold. A new list of people will have to wait again. You know, it's hard when we observe Slovenian railways like this. But if we use their services as a passenger, of course we find out a lot. Who would want to travel by rail from Murska Sobota to Kopra, whose travel time has been the same for 20 years? You're on a train in Murski Sobota at 5:00 in the morning and you're in Koper, say it and write like you're blowing up at 12:00. That's not working. Time has gone by. Today is the pace of life, and everything we want to do is so fast that a lot of people think about it and say, because I want to go with the railroad, but so much time to spend on the road, but I don't have it. Except for those occasional passengers who are only taken and only for a one-day swim from Murska Sobota, for example, to Koper. Even in the field of so-called towed and towed vehicles on the railway, it is certain that the Slovenian railways are equipped with towed and towed vehicles which correspond to all technical characteristics with regard to the existing railway infrastructure on which they are allowed to drive. And the railways might also have some more modern cars or locomotives, but unfortunately they can't use them after all on Slovenian railways. We suggest, however, that, through the debate, we come to some concrete conclusions that it would not be an excuse, and I am surprised, and probably the entire parliamentary group, that the Government should immediately point out that the Government is preparing an appropriate comprehensive solution, so the government is preparing this, this and that, but what we can only and only find, is that the Government has so far, together with the President of the Government, who regularly visits the Slovenian Railways, made a list on which 1,075 railway employees have been sent. And the next thousand will be soon if things continue this way. What exactly is the problem? The problem is in the railway infrastructure. The problem is to ensure and modernise railway workers with diligence and to make their contribution and thus to enable them to maintain their jobs, thereby enabling the country as owner to compete in the European Community, which is difficult to compare with the rail infrastructure of the Slovenian Railways. Almost all of us got ahead of us. Unless we take seriously the immediate approach to the resolution of railway infrastructure and everything in this regard that ensures safe driving along several Slovenian railways, we will face problems that are inevitable on Slovenian railways from day to day, as railways are not at fault unless the State as owner of the railway infrastructure provides the basic conditions for the equivalent provision of services between members of the European Community. We therefore propose that you adopt that proposal. We agree that it can be complemented, and we will probably come to these concrete proposals through discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group, we must undoubtedly attach all the indications and findings on the state of Slovenian railway infrastructure to the content of the law on the construction of priority sections of railway lines in the Republic of Slovenia, the proposaler of SDS. However, the conclusion that Slovenian railway infrastructure is disruptive is not new. Unfortunately, the former governments have failed to deal with this fact successfully. Every year lost in Slovenia, when we did not find adequate financial resources for its development, maintenance and modernisation, means, in addition to financial losses, concrete for the railways, also for the economy and its development. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that because of the deteriorating situation of Slovenian railways and their infrastructure, there is a risk that the targets set regarding the volume of transport work and the increase in the share of rail transport will not be achieved. Therefore, all the warnings given by the applicant in the introductory part are welcome as well as the objectives to be achieved by this law. It is aimed at accelerating the construction of priority railway sections, simplifying and expediting the procedures for the preparation of documentation, the procedures for issuing all necessary permits, and simplifying and expediting the acquisition of land and property. However, we express our concerns about the very approach to achieving the objectives set. The regulation of all construction procedures, as mentioned among the objectives of this Act and as set out in the next objectives, is a law on the construction of sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, meaning partial measures to remove the problem in the construction of the transport infrastructure itself. We regret only that the applicant did not apply this behaviour during his term of office and started the procedure at a time when he would be fully responsible for both the financial design and the implementation of the projects. The coalition partners, while aware of the issue of rail transport and infrastructure, also stated in the coalition contract that, I quote, "we are aware of the importance of the strategic issue of future transport arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia, the placement of transport in the economic system of the Republic of Slovenia and the wider European space, and the placement of the Republic of Slovenia as an important hub of transport in Europe." We will therefore begin to establish conditions for the Republic of Slovenia to become a logistics platform for Central and South-Eastern Europe due to its outstanding geostrategic position at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth Pan-European Corridor. We continue to believe that the whole transport infrastructure is important for Slovenia and, in particular, the port of Cyprus and modern rail infrastructure. We will start with a thorough overhaul of Slovenian railways in line with trends in the EU. We will strengthen our activities and start building a new and renewed existing railway infrastructure. We'll be directing the supply lines from the roads to the railway. In the field of railways and rail infrastructure, we will ensure legal and organisational changes in the rail sector, in line with the EU and international guidelines and standards. The State must ensure free access to infrastructure and train the latter with a view to increasing competitiveness and ensure independence for the national carrier to manage and sign multi-annual co-financing contracts. On the inside we will perform up to 50 km of renovation annually, systematically eliminate level crossings, implement projects and draw more effectively EU funds, for which financial memorandums have already been signed, namely modernisation of signal-safety devices on the Divača-Koper route, modernisation of signal-safety devices on the Prague-Ormož track, construction reconstruction, reconstruction, remote management of stable electrical tractor devices. Among other things, we will modernise the existing lines of Divača-Koper, begin with reconstruction and deepening of the Ljubljana railway node, explore the possibility of construction of the second track Maribor-Gradec and so on. Therefore, the Government is already preparing a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure, which will cover the whole railway area and provide solutions for all activities, including the preparation of documentation, prioritisation and timing, the necessary financial resources and flows for individual projects over a certain period of time. It will be based on an analysis of the existing state of the railway infrastructure, an analysis of the implementation of the investments set out in the 1996 national programme and on the basis of revised baselines with regard to integration into the EU and the European transport and transport policy itself. There is also a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in public rail infrastructure, which aims at identifying resources for the purpose of raising funds for investment and maintaining public railway infrastructure over the period 2010 to 2023. An innovative way to accelerate the construction of strategically important line infrastructures, including rail infrastructures, will be covered by the law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure in a place where procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans will be established. These are all the reasons why we will not really support the content of the bill in the Group of Members, since we do not think it includes a comprehensive approach to solving problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport. This year it will be 210 years since the birth of our greatest poet, Dr. France Prešeren, and just over 160 years since he died. Dr. France Prešeren also wrote the song Iron Road: "I am nearing the Iron Road, I am glad to love it, from Ljubljana to another city as a dot fly away." Colleagues and colleagues, about 150 years ago, this song was written. Today, here in this hall, we talk about the need to travel from Murska Sobota to Kopra for 8 and a half hours on this railway. What happened? In fact, man cannot believe, so in the Slovenian People's Party we will support the proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of railway lines in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that, as it was necessary to build motorways in our new country, we must also take action after the completion of this important project to restore and expand railway infrastructure. It is known that in the country we have made a priority decision on the construction of motorways and that, due to the many causes and internal conditions in the Slovenian Railways, the country has only now embarked on these legislation preparations significantly too late. The Government's normative programme shows that a resolution on the national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure is being prepared. And that is also the main argument of the Government why it opposes this bill. Actually, you can't believe it. Two days ago, in one television broadcast, representatives of the government coalition argued that the third development perspective of Slovenia, which was to be a longer and longer proposal for this law of reconstruction or the construction of priority sections of railway lines, was therefore not bound by one mandate, because it could not be that they would seek agreement by the opposition. This time you have another chance. Unfortunately, however, as from the resolution we discussed earlier in 2006, a single ticket, a single ticket for transport in the country has not been drawn up, so in the opposition we propose a proposal for a law that has binding purposes or foundations. You could say that the resolution is a body and the law is the head of this body. Government representatives from the Ministry say that there is also a law on the provision of funds for investments in public railway equipment. Approximately €400 million is available from the third operational programme Environment and transport infrastructure development, as well as 400 million for rail infrastructure. As far as I know, about 9% were used. Whether the calls for the use of these 400 million have been prepared or published or by the time of the operational programme "Development of environmental and transport infrastructure" you will use the funds available in the Brussels treasury. On the basis of an analysis of the existing state of the railway infrastructure, an analysis of the implementation of the investments set out in the national programme adopted in 1996, as well as on the basis of the revised baselines, in view of the integration into the European Union, and the transport and transport policies of the European Union itself, including the Community rail system, it has been clear for a long time that a new national programme needs to be drawn up, to the greatest extent, which will include all these findings and results from each area. However, it is appropriate to establish procedures, state procedures for spatial plans that plan certain types of networks and transport, energy and water infrastructures and the issue of land production for them in a uniform manner. This will accelerate the construction of strategically important line infrastructure, i.e. railway infrastructure, so that it will not come, as was the case with the motorway programme, to the system, that those who were involved in the information were buying land, agricultural land, and then by blackmailing the country broadcast or sold some 100-fold factor. Here, too, the Ministry of Transport would expect you to do an analysis and, of course, against, including, to withdraw certain sanctions that are necessary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe in the good purpose of these acceleration procedures, so we will support the law as a basis for further consideration. We expect from the government and the government coalition, because this is the first consideration, proper cooperation and complementarity, not rejection, because it does not lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us one of the proposals of the law on traffic regulation in Slovenia, which is proposed by the largest opposition party as a current lane. This time we are talking about the construction of priority sections of railways in the Republic of Slovenia, which would cost our country €342.5 million in 2011 if the law were passed and €6.5 billion from 2012 to 2030. We must agree with the proposaler that the state of public railway infrastructure in Slovenia is worse every year because it is evident from the mistakes and injuries arising on the track, the rolling stock network, the signal-safety equipment, the movers and the slow driving introduced, the speed limit and the axle loads, because it really affects the increasingly poor quality of services. We also agree with the assessment that the Republic of Slovenia allocates insufficient resources for the development, maintenance and modernisation of public rail infrastructure. In the DeSUS Group, however, despite the good intentions of the proposer, we will not support this proposal, as the Government is preparing a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure and the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure. Both acts will bring more comprehensive solutions to the specific problem. At the same time, the Government is also promising a law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure in a place where it will define in a uniform manner the procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans and the issues of land or land rights necessary for the construction of this infrastructure. Now there's something even more pleasant than the adoption of laws. Dear Mr. Mag. Your Clavora! Ambassadors and expert services of DeSUS at your personal holiday we wish you all the best and pleasant celebrations! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! I join these congratulations myself, on many healthy years. I hope we have something to drink today. You know, the old Slovenian proverb says that what we can do today, now I'm talking about marriage, we're not delaying tomorrow. Modernising railway infrastructure is the first condition for better integration of Slovenia into the European transport network. The V and X corridors are of particular importance to us. And when we talk about the technical situation, the ability to transport safely, the ability to make European comparability more accurate, we can find that we are worse than the country of Albania in this area. If we were not to be philosophical, I would point out some concrete facts. Our freight trains drive in, commercial speed is 35 km/h, while international trains drive 160 km/h, in passenger traffic is 10 km faster, but we are also here somewhere. Slow driving strengthens these speeds, on average from speed, and of course, because the poor condition on the railway infrastructure, especially on the lower structure and the upper structure of the track, is these slow, prescribed slow, ordered slow driving from day to day more. The cargo traffic is millions of minutes late. Millions of minutes late. To speak with such a state of railway infrastructure that we are European comparable is quite funny. This government has not forgotten the system of Slovenian Railways. I would say, this government, I will say, has grabbed the bull by the horns and is trying to solve the matter if it is even resolved that, without a strategic partner it will not work, and Slovenian railways are so financially and technically fed that the rehabilitation will last many years. Battles have been lost, and I hope that war will not be lost. War on time, because the cargo is already carrying us. What an interest it is to resolve this matter in a constructive way, as well as this half-empty hall here today. Slovenia has not been aware to this day that it also has a rail system in the system of public transport on freight and passenger transport. If we are talking about a national programme, I would mention the 1990 national programme, when we identify it today, everything is written in, you know, also the second track of Koper-Divača and so on, updates in the signal-safety field and, of course, faster train rides. If we compare the reality of what was then written under Rekar's rule, if I may say so, we can talk about less than 10%. Today we are working on a second resolution. It's just as good if she brings something good. The position of Slovenian Railways is not in the short term. Port Koper, as the only strategic partner, has, at least, been presented to us by the Maritime Members' Club, intended to make a substantial update in essence of its port capacity and will therefore also spend several billion euros. Of course, this must also be followed by support for the flow. The port has only one road and one railway, while the narrow throat is Koper-Divača. We have been talking about this track for more than a decade, and nothing has changed. I'd like us to do at least what we can and we're not. We have new locomotives for which taxpayers have deducted a lot of money and these locomotives simply cannot drive from the Wall Bridge forward because there is insufficient basic pressure. The locomotives, simply put, with trains like these, are too heavy to drive. And since the line is from the time of Franz Joseph, it can happen that it collapses all over the ground. From the Wall Bridge forward, we can cover them with blankets and see the poor infrastructure there to the new Hungarian railway or to Hodoš, which connects Hungary, which we also built by not providing for electricity. In short, even what we were able to build newly, we have done very badly. What can we do today, now and now? We can immediately approach updating the railway infrastructure system in this context in order to allow for normal train composition. And of course, to become European comparable in a commercial sense. The goods are already carrying us, and I am deeply convinced that if we don't actually do something now, not in 2030, then 2030 will be all for free if we have some European comparable infrastructure here and we don't have the cargo. Because once you move to another destination, it's hard to get it back. The so-called Pontebian route across Italy, Hungary, to the eastern part of Europe is more burdensome from day to day. And also foreign operators coming to Slovenian Railways are trying to take over those other cargoes that Slovenian Railways have today, of course. In short, we have a number of hostile factors in this area, but we are most hit by this poor infrastructure policy in the past and the resultant situation. As formerly responsible for technical travel activities for Primorsko, I am deeply convinced that we are very lucky that no serious extraordinary events have occurred. That we don't have, say, some other Wildlings like we had years ago when human bodies were all over the station. And that's what's gonna happen to us if we put this problem in the future. Why don't we do what we can now? We have signal-safety systems -- can you imagine what a visual signal is? - back in the old days. Prisoners who are supposed to be automatically guided [[project led by Siemens]] They've been in experimental operation for a decade and a half. A decade and a half! Siemens has now given up on this. We had Sparkle, a domestic company that was very quality in this segment, and we dismissed them and gave the foreigners a job. We did the same thing with Siemens in Maribor, when we trusted them with the Motor Vehicle Factory, but now they found it unproductive, and they shut it down. However, this government is not responsible. This government has joined the systematic rescue of the Slovenian Railways. Unfortunately, first of all, they want to remedy this matter in terms of human resources. I don't think that's a good thing, because there are a few experts who could help start the reconstruction work immediately between this human resources potential that has been put on hold today. I see no reason why we can't replace the train network today. I don't see why we can't hire a train that can restore five and a few kilometers a day, generally restore, you know, not what we have today, a prison, and then we do. And I see no reason why we could not in one year set up such a regime to drive from the Wall Bridge to Maribor to suit category D-4, which means that we could have those locomotives that are standing at the Wall Bridge today, and they are new, multi-systemic, we paid them dearly, so, 22.5-ton base pressure. That can be done today. However, the projects stand. And, Your Honor, there's no excuse. There's no excuse for this government or the previous government. Everyone was kind of blind about it. In the previous mandate, in 2008, we gave the railway workers the authority to start all the projects. We made a loan guarantee, but do you know where it got stuck that we didn't have any project completed? We must return the already acquired European funds to Brussels because we do not have projects. And nobody's gonna answer for that again. The previous government said we need direction. We made a directing move. We had an agency. The directorate is also in Maribor because he wanted the then Member, Mr Kangler's chief of staff, and there's a ficus, one bunch of love that doesn't do anything. It's the same with an agency that writes security certificates to foreign operators that consume our work. And today we find that 1,000 people are too many because RCA is driving our trains. I am not against foreign operators who are to come, only to bring their product to Luka Koper, and what is of national importance to Slovenian railroaders who give bread to 10,000 people's heads must remain protected. That's the way it would be. These are cars, container transport, cereals, oil derivatives and so on, but that's not the case. And tomorrow we will see again, as Mr Marinic said, that there will be 1,000 more people. And maybe another 1,000 tomorrow. That's not the way. The unions weren't good enough either. We should protect the worker's interest and fight for the job. None of the foreigners coming here as a foreign operator has the right to interfere with the systemic transports signed by the Slovenian Railway as a Contracting Party 10, 20 years ago and transported every day, such as Koper-Linz, phosphates. Who can drive this like Slovenian Railways? None of the aliens. Let them bring their product to Luka Koper and drive. And until we protect the interest of work, we will not have the interest of capital. The Germans as the strategic partner of DB will come to the Slovenian Railways, so said the Prime Minister if we have separate infrastructure, passenger and freight transport, if we do not have in one pot of everything and if the property is separated in such a way as to know who pays for what, who is responsible for what. I am in favour of such a system, but if we wait only to be humanely comparable and forget about the technical state of the Slovenian Railways, then the cargo will pass us around and unfortunately not for 1,000 people will work anymore. That's what I'm afraid of. What is written in the Proposal for a Law on the Construction of Priority Sections was written down years ago. And it would be wise to draw from what can be done immediately. I myself have proposed that, as Vice-President of the Committee, in an interview with the Director of the Slovenian Railways, a group be appointed, including the President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Godec, at this meeting, a group of those who are experts in the railway field, to start implementing priorities for projects that can essentially be realized immediately. I like it in a way that we went from the Megalomian project to the duality of Koper-Divic to the single system, because the projects are already ready because this route has already been introduced into the space, where we have already purchased land and we will somehow be able to start the project a little earlier. But we have lost here, ladies and gentlemen, 10 years. Ten years. And as has already been said, the goods carry us and we will lose a lot of opportunities for tomorrow's, I don't know, better work of Slovenian railways. Last but not least, I would also like to explore the responsibility of the carriers behind us, because today we find that the railways did not show that condition, at least not financially, as they should have. The balance sheet has been adjusted and we have actually had a fake picture, which is now expressed in a very difficult situation in the Slovenian Railways and it will be difficult to fix things so that it will work, let alone to obtain current funds for the development programmes ahead. I would also like to point out in this regard that, in the rescue of these railways, we are somewhat too slow to engage in the work of the Prime Minister himself. And I would like, of course, to approach immediately, immediately, but really immediately, at least to those parts that can offer immediate results. I'll tell you one case. We still have a lot of traffic at stations that are no longer the subject of stopping trains. These stations have to have trains across the train lines and the speed has to be reduced. Why don't we just prescribe that where there's no more stopping the freight trains, we pick up these traffic stations, deposit them in a permanent building, and then, when we need them, we'll install them back. 40% [[?]] slow driving will be less, at least in Slovenia. As far as renewal is concerned, essentially energy-powered system techniques, we can immediately approach replacing the rolling stock network in the Kopra and Divaca area, because a thin steering line prevents a full ton of towing. And that, of course, reduces the gap. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do this right now. Tomorrow. There are still many of these matters that we can look for and extricate from what we can do today. Please do not delay with those problems that we can solve from today to tomorrow. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. First of all, congratulations on your holiday are on my behalf. Honourable representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members. It is in Slovenia's national interest to update public railway infrastructure as soon as possible and at the same time to transform Slovenian railways, not only because of the global economic crisis in which they are located, into a modern one, depending on Slovenia's geographical location, a leading regional operator who will carry out comprehensive transport and logistics activities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that due to the lost decades in the development of Slovenian railways, the path to this goal will be extremely difficult and most likely to be painful. On this path, however, we must take the deep crisis of our operator, the catastrophic state of public rail infrastructure, and various requirements for the implementation of European Union directives in this area as incentives in particular. The problems of the Slovenian rail system are major, and we are particularly the problem, with our decades of long perception of the role of railways in modern, economically developed society, currently facing climate change and the global economic and financial crisis. It is now responsible for the development of the Slovenian railway system of the ruling coalition, part of which is also our party. We have therefore listened to the Government's arguments in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which justify that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, of course, we expect the early consideration of the announced government solutions, which will mainly include the following proposals for acts: a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure, the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure and the Law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure into space. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have no doubt about the good intentions of law-makers, but it would be better if we all assess the modernisation of public rail infrastructure as a national project to join forces and adopt the most appropriate solutions. Where there is will, there is a way. Therefore, once again, if we are serious about speeding up the modernisation of the Slovenian rail system, we need to stop the prestigious battles and start cooperating. This, of course, applies to all parties. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as I have already said, we have listened to the Government's arguments and we will not support the bill. At the same time, we expect a broad debate to begin as soon as possible on the solutions that the Government is preparing for the Slovenian rail system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you again for the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The very title of the law is good and interesting. It is about the construction of priority sections of railways in the Republic of Slovenia and the law, as Article 1 speaks, should determine the hands, sources, documentation and everything that is necessary to enable the construction of these railways in Slovenia to begin. However, in our view, the extremely important flaw in this law is that it almost entirely excludes the National Assembly in this process. Indeed, with the adoption of this law, the National Assembly has no more role to play in the implementation of such an important project, which we can estimate to be even higher than the construction of motorways, which has been or will be valid for EUR 5.4 billion. Accurate estimates of how much funding should be provided for the completion of all these sections are not, in fact, available and not mentioned by the proposer. However, it is certainly at least as important as the construction of motorways. And in all these procedures, the National Assembly would only be familiar with how construction is to be carried out. It is therefore an extremely large resource and the competence of the National Assembly to adopt a resolution on the national programme for the construction and modernisation of railways in the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of this resolution we then adopt annual programmes and the resolution also sets out how we will finance construction. Usually this is also an obligation, which we need special laws to make it happen. Well, the proponent says that the government can decide how to finance railways by means of a regulation. The Regulation is therefore considered by the proposer to be sufficient to provide resources that can far exceed the limit of debt, either by European criteria or also by what we believe would be appropriate for the National Assembly. This law also legitimizes the way in which documentation is obtained for the construction of railway infrastructure in accordance with current spatial legislation. We all find that this legislation is ineffective. Today we can see that it is precisely because of this ineffective legislation that it is impossible to build railway sections, but we would legislate by this law that we must apply this legislation in the future in order to place railway lines in space. It's an inappropriate solution. We need a new law on integration into the area of line infrastructure if we are to achieve all the needs that Slovenia has, because it is in an important strategic position, the V. and X. European corridors are going through Slovenia, and we also have a port in Cyprus, which is extremely important for the supply of Europe with certain products that we can bring to Europe as close as possible through this port. To avoid this, we must adopt a special law on the placement of line infrastructure in space. The hands cited by this law speak only of this, the first eight proposals, Koper - Black Kal-Divača node, Black Kal-Divača node - Black Kal node, Divaca-Ljubljana node, Zidani Most-Dobova node and so on. This law provides that the deadline for the construction of all these first eight sections is 2023. And this is where the jurisdiction of the National Assembly ceases. How and when an individual section will actually be built is then again the power of the Government to determine by regulation when, say, the end of the Zidani Bridge-Maribor, the Zidani Bridge-Dobova. The National Assembly will have nothing to do with this, in the opinion of the proponents. The same applies, for example, to the section of Ljubljana-Grosuplje, Kočevje-Crnomelj, which is said to be built by 2030. How and when, whether or not it will be possible by 2030 and whether it will be possible by 2020, this deadline will again be the responsibility of only the Government and only the Government. I do not think that this is the right solution and that the National Assembly cannot support the solution in any way, because it excludes itself from the most important development decisions in Slovenia. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we cannot support this bill in any way, because it will not actually help to build railways, but will help to increase the fact that we will unsupervisedly rent loans and that we will build sections for which the National Assembly will not know whether they are really priority or not or whether it is just the political will of the current minister in the government, or perhaps those governments. This goes beyond the legal framework of resolutions and, I hope, also the Constitution. We cannot support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker! I'd like to speak a few words about this subject. I would like to begin with a sentence, as colleague Weber mentioned earlier, that the National Assembly has been excluded from this law. This can be true, but in general, whatever the role of the National Assembly is, it is always a problem to provide funding resources. Why do we not have new national programmes or resolutions in the field of rail transport, in the area of rehabilitation and maintenance of the state road network? In both cases it is always the first and, I will not say the only, but the biggest problem of providing money and thus the inability to prepare such a document. Although the state road network is the next point, the problem is always the same. There is always a problem with funding sources. These are still kind of bearable on the highway network, because, in truth, this project has been given the highest attention by the country in all self-sustainment years. And this source of building, rebuilding and maintenance of the highway network has somehow deteriorated if I use a nice Slovenian word. The then motorway tolar, as we called it, lost its shine over the years and ended up landing practically in one part of the toll and everything else on credits. We have also slowly put this programme out of the budget in the past period. In other areas that I mentioned earlier, rail and state roads, however, the matter is even worse. On the basis of the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the coalition parliamentary groups, I also anticipate that this bill will not be adopted in order to be rejected. For this reason, I appeal to the Government to draw up an intensive national programme and, I am sure, at least as important as I said before, some law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure. So, as far as I know, both documents are part of the Government's normative programme, which I think is for the first half of this year. Therefore, despite the fact that we already have an old national programme, which is implemented in some fighting dozens of the entire programme, all the starting points, including Slovenia's entry into the European Union and many other reasons, are substantially changed in the meantime. Of course, the problems of placing line objects in space were mentioned earlier. I have to say that I have asked the question of this subject twice already. I think it was last January. Immediately after the start of the new government, Minister Vlačič for this law on the placement of line infrastructure facilities in the premises promised that within a few months the government would prepare it within a few months. I then asked this similar question, I think, once in November, both ministers, Vlačič and Erjavac, but the answer was that it would be soon. After some recent news, including newspapers, something seems to be coming up in this area because the fact is that the situation in the room has changed significantly since ten, fifteen, twenty years ago. I always say that luckily we already have a nearly upgraded highway cross, because if we put it in a room now in this period to put it in the space of an individual section, I don't know where we'd get it. With existing legislation, I'm sure there's nowhere to be found. Of course, such problems are in the room. And because of this, it is also, of course, or mainly because of this, that law is, of course, necessary. So, as it is said, I will not now go to individual sections that are certainly true, even in the national programme - a colleague said earlier, because this is all in the existing, once adopted, 1990s adopted national programme, all the points of course are correct. I certainly support that the Government comes as soon as possible - as you have in the normative programme - by means of a resolution on the national programme, by means of a law on the provision of funds and by those third parties, which I have mentioned and also mentioned by my colleagues, by the Act on the placement of infrastructure lines in space. Otherwise, I will vote in favour of this law in the first reading, because if not in the second, the law has been introduced and is trying to accelerate preparations to get to the right documents in Slovenia and the possibility of improving railway infrastructure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! Dear Vice-President, I wish you all the best on your birthday, a great deal of health and, above all, good cooperation. I believe that this bill was primarily about the well-intention of the applicants to somehow correct what they might have done in the past, at a time when they had the opportunity and the opportunity to act in this area, somehow failed or failed. Of course, as has been said several times today, political will is needed, perhaps not so simple at the time. At the time of the presentation of the views, it was clear what the proposals were, and I also assess that I cannot support such a proposal for a law. However, even in our area, where we are somehow cut off from road infrastructure, railway infrastructure is still somehow going, but the link to central Slovenia is almost broken. Even the connections that were before one of your colleagues said they were gone. It is therefore necessary to take action for greater integration within the European Union. I believe that there is still a need for a link with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, because the area of the White Country or South-East Slovenia, as well as the Posavia area, needs this important transport connection very much. Why it is also important to maintain rail infrastructure in areas that have unfortunately been neglected due to the priority of motorway sections. At the meeting with Slovenian and Croatian railway operators at the end of last year, they highlighted this particular issue in the area of the White Landscape - on the one hand, the abolition of several lines towards Ljubljana, which is worrying. Of course, I think that, at one of the presentations, Mr Secretary of State has made it clear that even in connection with railways and railway corridors, and also on one side with the development of Slovenia, it will be necessary to look in this direction to contribute to the more equitable development of Slovenia, even if sometimes any of the railway links will not be economically justified, on the one hand also economically effective, but will also contribute to the development and also to the existence and larger life and to the development of individual areas. Certainly, when we look at the burden of roads in Slovenia, I would certainly support the thinking of the Ministry of Transport, the Minister and the whole leadership, in the direction of priority in the field of railway infrastructure, but I think that we are not yet on the right track with such a proposal of law, but I believe that with some further amended, complementary decisions we can also take these important steps in the field of railway infrastructure, which Minister Patrick Vlačič has already spoken very clearly on several occasions. I think it is right to support, on the one hand, the unloading of freight transport roads on the other hand, and perhaps even to look at where we already have rails, including the area of the White Land, so that even in the field of freight transport and beyond, the transition towards the countries of the former Yugoslavia could be made even more and also diverted in this way freight transport, and on the other hand in the care of the clean environment, so that the ecological moments, which are still important, would also be highly appropriate. Indeed, certain suggestions in this law and in these years are such that I even thought almost myself that I would probably be close to retirement by then. It is likely that some of these proposals will have to be considered here, as well as some of the ambiguities associated with the deadlines for the completion of sections, as well as that some issues may not be blurred or sufficiently presented and transparent on the one hand with this bill. Therefore, I cannot support this alone at this time, but I will certainly be the first to be among the same, here all of us gathered to support this issue. So it is also right to listen in the field of rail infrastructure to areas that are truly neglected in development. I don't think it's a coincidence to visit the government in Kočevsko-fishing and White Landscape. This area would also be in the field of railway infrastructure, including railways, stressed that they expect that maintenance will also be provided for those who are not part of the corridor, and we expect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. In order for the coalition and the government to support such a bill, I can honestly tell you that I didn't expect it in my dreams either. Such excuses as we hear in each proposal by the SDS or even the opposition that the Government is preparing a comprehensive solution, that this is already in preparation. Look, this is what we're used to. Sadly, however, this is not much to be considered in the National Assembly. This marriage is something like that. The problem of rail infrastructure or rail transport in general is decades old. This is not the problem with the previous term when you all want to report that too little has been done in the previous mandate in this area. I agree with that, but it started. But this problem should have been solved 10, 15 or 20 years ago in order not to face such major problems as it is today. Even if the Government does not raise or pay the necessary attention, it also shows, with all due respect, Mr State Secretary, that you are present here, but there could also be a minister and a wide range of experts here, from this point of view, in order, through a debate that would be more qualitative, to find solutions or to supplement this law, or to extend matters in any other way, even more so. But today, as I mentioned, we are facing major problems in passenger transport, road transport, freight. Hopefully, this year's highway cross, the last section towards Dolenjska, towards the New City, is expected to be completed by midsummer. Unfortunately, today we can see that the corridors of these motorways or these lanes are already too small, so much road traffic, especially freight, that when I drive to Ljubljana, I am on the lane all the time, because on the right side of the truck behind the truck. Just like when I'm coming back. Revoz, Adria have a few hundred trucks every day. We have an industrial track in the Revoz factory, which is far, far less used, less exploited than it could be. Why? Because railway infrastructure, logistics, section incompatibility do not meet their needs and expectations and therefore rather use freight traffic than rail passengers. I'd rather take a train to Ljubljana, but two hours and a half is, unfortunately, too much time that I can't afford to have this pace working in the National Assembly. Not to speak, as it was today, from Murska Sobota to Kopra for 7 hours. These are the key reasons that discourage people from using rail transport, whether it is passenger or freight, unfortunately. But what can we do now? In particular, let's stop philosophically, but really, just talk about what we're going to do in the resolution. Look, there is a document that is needed here, but the resolution is not yet what could contribute to this. There will be some comprehensive concept, but, look at this proposal of the law that is before us today, very precisely sets out those priorities that I believe we all agree are necessary and we would add a lot more because we have not even been able to introduce everything here. We were almost certain that the proposal would not receive support, but that could be complemented in case of support. Here it would be the first step already to support this law for further consideration, to go in addition to the solution and at the same time, respected representatives of the government, coalitions, all that which is here in the explanations, why you will not support this law, you can carry out a peaceful soul further. You can draw up a resolution, a national strategy, you can also draw up laws, you can draft sub-legislative acts, by also taking into account the provisions that are in this law, but let's start. I'm asking you to start solving this today. Anyway, there are some timelines here, when a colleague said that she would be in "retirement" by then, and I'd better be in "retirement" when we know that we were able to do something at that time, and I'll see that the matter is even worse, which will certainly happen if we don't do it right away. That is why all of these years, which are really long, and we know that rail infrastructure is a very big resource, a big intervention into space, a big financial supply, but this is the only solution that will be able to fully reduce road traffic, reduce the environmental burden, burden our highways, increase safety in our road transport. Therefore, we will do this first, and first we will do something for our country and, above all, for our own safety. Here is one proposal that should be supported, followed, complemented and moved from words to actions, but especially financially, it is not a project for this government, nor for the next term, it is a project for four, five mandates. And it is likely that more aggressive means will have to be sought to build this infrastructure. However, it is time for action, not just to be discussed here. I will gladly support this law and all the solutions proposed by the Government, the coalition or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Milenko Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I would like first of all to join the congratulaters to the Vice-President and, with one more wish, to remain as they have been so far. I miss the minister, maybe he's driving around with a blue light on some more urgent matter or he's on the railroad with the Prime Minister. Given the frequent presence of visitors there, I would expect that at least one such paper has been prepared by the Government, which we then copied, because it seems to be a permanent practice now. Everything's government right before the laborers, but then what we suggest is a copy. Well, the project itself or the collection of projects needed for Slovenian railways, which need to be carried out on Slovenian railways, could begin with a unique opportunity offered by V. and X. corridors that meet in Slovenia. Such an important railway crossing must be an impetus for further development. Business partners from around the world looking for transport connections would certainly be thrilled that these two transport corridors would be made as soon as possible and would not want to look for more expensive routes across Italy and Austria, which may have some stage created more, but will be in the final stage of driving due to additional kilometres of posture. I would like to draw attention to the alarm, the fear, or the disturbances caused by the removal of the railway composition in the Shares years ago. For 14 days, the route was impenetrable, and the whole of Central Europe was before the whole segment of industry lasted. Today, industry operates by the system "just and time". Which is the stock of raw materials or products for more than a week, do not afford them, because the warehouse is too expensive, so logistics must be prepared on some high level, cheap, safe and reliable. And something else would be safer and more reliable than modern, new rail lines. We have adopted a resolution on 40% greenhouse gas reductions. There we point to the main ones, the big ones - the trucks. We'll divert as much freight as possible to the railways. Passenger trains are already overcrowded. It's hard to get an extra car. Then we get the funding. The government could rank priorities, and perhaps a matter could be put in the nearer future and give priority to railways. Railways, as colleagues and colleagues have already found, are not a project of this government, one government itself, it is a project, it started with the previous government, it is to continue and upgrade and then some of the next governments will eventually do this V. and X. corridor and a crossing in Slovenia. Maybe Block 6 could wait, but it could be part of the means to the railways. Subsidies for reduced working time, which were in fact also a cover for employers, could go to railways and so on. You could find the money. Europe is building much more expensive projects. The long tunnels under the Alps are in motion, a few of which are planned and will be tackled. Europe is already modernising fast passenger transport, in France the so-called TGV. Germany's going this way, too. And we're complaining about air traffic. Air traffic as an air contaminant. Air traffic is the only alternative to fast trains. So from Ljubljana to Munich, for example. I just can't believe I'm gonna see this happen. Where else can you save, or where can you get, money? With rational construction, so that it does not happen as it will in Ljubljana, we are reading right now that the Mesar Bridge will be more expensive than one of the most beautiful open viaducts in the Boja municipality, only there is a 60 m arch and so on. The butcher bridge is obviously having trouble with the sewers, and this is how the finances will disappear. So, let me finish. The law certainly shows support, as one of the steps to improving the situation on railways that need not wind, but storms, including the internal organisation, we read that railways have large internal reserves, as well as the need to implement the V. and X. corridor plan is still necessary and I think the Government's priority is also to make these corridors and individual sections of the railway line. And certainly, in this sense, if you do not already support the bill that we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least as soon as possible "crowd it", let's say in one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you. One of the key shortcomings of this law is that the proposer does not say how much funding we need to build all of these sections listed here. At the same time, it requires the Government to establish resources by regulation within three months of the adoption of this Act to finance these sections. I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular that our legislation makes it very clear that the law must lay down a framework in which the government regulation can then move. Thus, we leave the government completely free. It can lay down by regulation that the construction of these sections will require 5 billion, it can say that it needs 10, it will be able to say that it needs 15, in short, the Government has unlimited authority to determine how much resources it will use to build these sections. This is a key problem in this law, in addition to excluding the National Assembly, which must decide on this, really to set a framework to be adopted in the State Building Assembly, i.e. for the source of the resources needed to build these sections. And if the proposer can explain how much resources we need to build these sections, then this law may even be passed, but if he cannot explain how much money we need, then this law is useless. It cannot be implemented. However, in order for the Government to determine for itself whether it will need EUR 5, 10, 15 billion, I think it goes beyond - I don't think it goes beyond our legislation and what the Government can actually lay down by regulations. For a government regulation, a framework must be laid down in the law, otherwise this Regulation cannot be adopted. The same applies to those deadlines in which individual sections are to be completed. Here in the law is given the grave frame of the first 8 to 2023, and when of these first 8 will actually be the government's own regulation. And let me remind you that the Government already has this authority today, without this law. We are adopting an annual budget, a development programme plan, and it also states that, of course, there must be a four-year development programme plan, and the government already has this responsibility. We don't need to legalize what he already has. However, it should also be pointed out that in the 2010 and 2011 budgets, there are significantly more resources than ever in Slovenia alone for the modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure. EUR 275 and a half million is foreseen for 2010 and EUR 331.8 million for 2011. If we add another 75 million euros for public maintenance and 114 million for public maintenance works for 2011, these are very specific figures that say that the Government has decided and I hope that even when we adopt a resolution on the national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure, the National Assembly that this is the dynamics, the years, the resources that must certainly lead to the modernisation of railway infrastructure in Slovenia as soon as possible. But, unfortunately, once again, this law doesn't even tell us how much money we need and if it doesn't say so, it just can't be supported. That's why, of course, I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Mr. Verlich has the floor. Please. As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. In listening to this debate on the bill that we are proposing today, I cannot help but feel that the only problem is that the proposal came from our side. In view of what you are, so far above all, the debaters who oppose this law have said that this will all be covered by the resolution. I will now bet that this will be covered by the resolution on the national programme or national programme for the development of railway infrastructure. Where were the reasons we decided to marry? We know one. In 1996, the first resolution, the first national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure, was adopted. Look at him, he was adopted in this National Assembly. And there it was written that the second track of Divaca - Koper would be built in 2000. The main disadvantage of this national programme, which is still in force, was that the resources were not identified. It was therefore not possible to implement this resolution. Look. And now you are saying that our proposal is bad because you will prepare or the Government will draw up a resolution. All right, but we, as proponents, have been waiting for the Government, which said in its normative programme that at the end of 2009 the resolution will come to the National Assembly. The same was promised by the Minister of Environment and Space, who said that the routes would be placed in the space very quickly, we are preparing a law on the placement of public line facilities. And then here everything that the former Minister of Environment and Space and the previous government has done wrong in putting into space, it will happen faster, everything will go faster. This is the second argument why you object to this proposal. Although in the middle of the debate, I hear everything, and it sounds like marriage is not as bad as it was in this first draft. In fact, what I missed in the debate was talking about the priority sections that we're paying attention to here. When you say the National Assembly is out of the game, it's not true. By this law, I firmly believe that the National Assembly has made clear what priorities, which sections are those that are important for the State of Slovenia and are enshrined in the Article of the Law. I think the law is the biggest legislative act the National Assembly has ever adopted. And from here on out, it follows everything that can come to these solutions. If the deficit is a financial asset, this can be complemented in further discussions. And yet, what matters when we talk about financial resources. This law nicely states, from 2012 to 2030, the contribution of the State is clearly indicated. And that's the point. The budget contribution by the state of Slovenia to build these priority sections is set at 0.9% of GDP, at least. This is a contribution by the State of the Republic of Slovenia to this modernisation project. In that article, we also wrote, clearly that this will not be enough, the resolution on national development projects, which is the basis for this legislative proposal, said itself that it would be €8.8 billion. Therefore, the Government then has the power in this proposal to lay down a precise timetable by regulation. We in the National Assembly have given the law real hands, according to our assessment, real time, as it is. I'll bet those are totally real hands. But if the government cuts hands with a regulation, that's better. The National Assembly tells us what the deadline is, that the 20-year deadline is the one in which we can modernise all these tracks. However, we can give the government the authority to decide, for example, that the section of Kočev v Črnomlje will be made earlier because of the special situation of the region. Why not? But these are the basic orientations of this law, so that for the first time at home and also from the outside we can tell what is a priority for us, that it will not happen in the Republic of Italy, as I hear now in the media, which is no longer a Slovenian-Italian meeting, are cancelled. What's it gonna be? Tomorrow, corridors will run past Slovenia. By law we tell them no, the Republic of Slovenia has V., X. corridor written in the law, in section 2 of the law our sections are defined, the state contribution is defined. Anyone who wishes to invest further in any way, any strategic partner that the Prime Minister is looking for on the railways will ask: "What is your stake? What's your stake if you want to attract me to co-finance?" And we're going to say, "We have an adopted law, 0.9% of GDP, that's our decision." And this is an immediate dedicated resource, which must be in the budget, and this has already given rise. And now forward. If we are looking at placement in space, you said, I have previously heard that it is not precisely defined and that we should be placed in a space under existing legislation, but that new legislation is being prepared. I wish I could come to the National Assembly as soon as possible, I am interested in this, because both Ministers for Transport and the Environment, now retired or the Minister is then, at least Minister Vlačič said, "We will both have to go through this door if this law is not." Well, one decided to go alone, and the other one, I'm holding my hand that he doesn't have to say goodbye because it's better to get solutions, we better get those rail corridors. But look. Article 6 of our proposal states that in obtaining all the necessary documentation, the provisions of the laws governing these areas shall apply mutatis mutandis, but the timetables must be designed so as not to exceed the deadlines laid down in this legislation. What did we face? Just like the highways. Our hands were moving. If we wanted to, if we wanted to say, well, write a deadline, say, 2015, then we would first report that we want unrealistic hands, so we decided on a deadline that is real and for Slovenia also sustainable. The main transport corridors, in line with the Resolution on National Development Projects adopted by the previous Government, and I have not heard that any comments on this resolution and on what we want in Slovenia, and the other regional lines, of course, are still in a certain period of time, which is probably logical for us to get the railway infrastructure, which, for the first time, will enter Slovenia into the international corridors at the same time, of course, regionally. Maybe, I really expected that maybe we could talk about another railway connection, something else to add, something else to enrich, that would be, I think, that very good debate. Above all, as we say, it is our desire as proponents to make clear what are the priorities for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure, to enter into the law and to make this a guide for the construction of railway infrastructure in Slovenia in the next 20 years. I don't think we need any resolutions for this, because this time of resolutions has passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. He's not here. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government. Colleagues and colleagues. We have a real traffic package today. We have already discussed road transport, now rail infrastructure, the following will be road infrastructure. This has some important connections if we link it to the environment. The Kyoto Protocol and the others that are complementary and will be adopted oblige us to reduce environmental pollution, to reduce CO2 emissions in gas, as well as nitrogen oxides. However, if they are already in transport, we can say that we will not achieve this reduction without good infrastructure, the emphasis is on good and even less if we are without infrastructure and therefore such a bill as we have proposed. We have heard a great deal about this proposal of ours that it is not acceptable and that is because the Government will draw up a resolution that will deal comprehensively with matters that will be taken by organisation, which will be complete, which will systematically solve some things, that is all fine and right. We have nothing against the resolution, but something else bothers us because we keep listening to it. When we're proposing, it's exactly why it's not acceptable. Because the government will prepare a complete, complete, systematic and so on. That's so far away, we just don't believe it anymore. The fact is, it is also said that we have not written everything down, that we have not foreseen everything, that this is missing and that it is missing. Therefore, it is a multi-phase process to complement it. This is exactly the point of a multi-phase procedure, otherwise it would be a waste of time. During the course of the process, matters can be complemented and I have been slowly getting the feeling that when we make proposals, it would be, say, in this particular case for railway infrastructure, the best thing to do is to do it all together, and then the law would probably be acceptable. But it doesn't work that way. And as far as the railway is concerned, rail transport is certainly friendly to the environment, because it is a group transport, especially where the lines are electrified. This is very friendly to the environment and, perhaps equally important or even more so, it is that such transports are also safer. There has been a lot of talk lately about our green behaviour, how to be friendly to the environment, but let me remind you of the debate since before, because we are all who have been before, we are also here now, we have found that it is not possible to extend some bus routes, otherwise around Ljubljana, by a mile or more. And there's a total heart attack on the road. Even the railroad could be said to be a heart attack, perhaps in some other sense. And one wonders what the problem is that public transport in Slovenia, whether it is road or rail, is somehow unable to come to life. We just can't extend the line. This is the most incomprehensible. That's what they say. There's got to be a catch somewhere, as they say. Obviously, someone is interested in the fact that the issue is such that public transport cannot come to life. Maybe I'll make a little speculative reference to what it sounds like some big cities have invested a lot in garage houses. Public transport won't be parking in these garages. And those who invest, want to get their money back or have profits, then they have to have lots of cars. And there'll be a lot of cars if public transportation doesn't work, because we're all going to "battle" with a car in town. It's a bigger city - it's more exposed and more current, but that's just what it sounds like. I won't say that. However, the fact is that Slovenia is lagging behind in the field of railway infrastructure and in general in the organisation, modernisation, in general, everything related to railways. We were still investing in the roads, but not in the railroad. But the problem is somewhere else, we are not an oasis, somewhere on another planet, but the neighbours around us are working intensively - Italy, in particular Austria is a huge investment in railway infrastructure, even in Croatia they are building a section against the river, which will somehow bypass Slovenia. The Italians have three tracks on the ponteb track anyway, and we have a second track in Primorska. The Austrians, as far as I am aware, are also building a tunnel between Graz and Koroška. This is also a vehicle for Slovenia. That's what they say. Others do. Not to say what the Swiss are doing in the Alps, I don't know, I think almost 50 kilometers long tunnel from north to south, which will also pull its currents maybe that way and we might be a little less interested. And if we don't have something to show that we're doing something, then they'll say, "Listen, you're asleep!" And despite the fact that we have a V. and X. corridor that is somehow valuable in European documents, it can change very quickly. But I wouldn't be surprised to hear that someone is trading with our V. corridor and that they would sign some sort of arbitration agreement on the V. corridor, where they would do what they would think. That is why I believe that this law must be supported and taken seriously to build infrastructure. For others do - and this is good or bad for us too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Sam would have had a very short trip to history first. The year 1968 was one of the most black years for Slovenian railways. Of course, back then in Yugoslavia. At that time, the revolutionary authorities decided to cut off the railway link Velenje-Slovenianj Gradec-Otiški Vrh-Puconci-Hodos and the passenger traffic was abolished on the railway line Ljubljana-Kamnik. Of course, where the railway is, there's development. And Koroška lives in some kind of traffic isolation, not only with regard to road infrastructure, but also with railway infrastructure. The same applies to Pomurje. Thus, we are forced in the National Assembly to adopt specific laws on the promotion of development in Pomurje. That this was a mistake also shows the fact that in 2001 the railway connection Puconci-Hodoš was reestablished and that today the Stonemen are happily driving by train to Ljubljana to work. With this law, in Article 2, we also re-place the construction of the Celje-Velenje-Slovenian railway station, Gradec-Otiški Vrh and towards Austria. I don't know what led the then authorities to pick up the tracks and the "swillers" from that railroad. Apparently, someone wanted to take advantage of it at the time; I don't know what he could do with it. It is true that there is still an iron road to Koroška, from Maribor to Dravograd, Prevaljem and further to Pliberk, which has so many train compositions that we can count them into the fingers of one hand. And with every new timetable, people at this end are afraid to break this line. The fact is, however, that there has been very little investment in this route in the last ten, twenty years. This old line of railway from Velenje to the Thinkinska valley is inappropriate this time. Through the Evil Hole we will no longer build a railway connection, and on the other hand, the space in the Thinkin Valley is already quite dark; more could be said about this by a colleague, until yesterday a candidate for the Environment Minister, what they did in the Thinkinska Valley in these years. I think it would not be bad if, at the same time as placing the 3rd development axis in this space, we also started thinking about a new railway route from Velenja to Koroška. The law we have tabled provides for a single electrified line with a maximum speed of 120 kilometres per hour and equipped with modern devices. This is good and should be commended, so I do not know why such a law should be opposed. Especially because the Borut Pahor government has decided that the economic and financial crisis will soon end. Gross domestic product will therefore grow and 0.9% of gross domestic product per year for these railway sections provided for by this law is not much, it does not represent a major financial burden for Slovenia. This railway connection, however, will correct the historical injustice that took place in 1968 in the Koroška and Shaleški valleys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Respectable. We have before us one of the laws designed to maintain Slovenia's operational rail network and not become a transport island within Europe. For many years we have always boasted that we are the most interesting part of Europe on infrastructure. It threatens us with the latest developments in Europe and with the slowness of the Government and previous governments of the Liberal Democracy, which in this area has done absolutely nothing to bypass the traffic flows of Slovenia. It is no longer safe for V. Corridor to stay in Slovenia in the long term. Nevertheless, we are witnessing the government's under-appreciating attitude. There's no minister here today. And, like the procedural attitude of the Minister and the Ministry towards the law that we are introducing and the problems that are on the table today, of course this relationship has also been reflected in the state of the Slovenian Railways. All the trees along the steep slopes down which usually railways or locomotives can no longer stop. I think they're planning somewhere else with the current government. That agreement should first be reached with the SCT and the Primors as to how they will be involved in major investment projects, until then everything is blocked. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong approach. This association has done us so much damage on the highway project and has irritated the construction, and in this way we will not have modern railway connections. Our neighbouring countries are already building infrastructure railway facilities, which, when the current government reacts poorly, regardless of the crisis, will mean that long-term European flows are diverted across Slovenia. Our historical responsibility is that you will be responsible when you are offered a deadline, when we also want to direct the attention of the Slovenian public, the economy, to do something to start the dynamics and to move here from how it works to a higher "speed" and a better relationship. Forget that only your lobby will have the construction of the railroad and the strong money. It's your client's priority, again, but get rid of it. It's not going anywhere. This leads to destruction. Your experience, Mr Kontic, is 12 years old, your options, or 18 years old, and these are experiences, as you said. I am pleased that you have been betrayed by the subconscious that you immediately said that the experience is such that you think mainly of your performers, who, of course, then return richly. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment for catharsis. The concept you choose on which you stand is wrong, it is necessary to approach the construction, modernisation of Slovenian railways, otherwise it will be too late. However, I care about some people in the control world in railways who work through private companies who do not think about the railway as a national interest, which worries me and we will not go far with such methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. A classic sample, the government does not fit into the debate, does not discuss, does not explain and argue the reasons and does not answer. That says a lot about who and what kind of government we have in this mandate. Let the debates run, then make some conclusion if it is, or not. And that's probably not a proper attitude towards the National Assembly. At some celebrations, they are much more eloquent. When we adopted the spatial development strategy of Slovenia at the end of our mandate in 2004, we also, at the time we were in the opposition, proposed an amendment to connect the nomadic line with Chernobyl, including with the support of the coalition, and in particular with the support of the coalition, this amendment was adopted. Today, when we have introduced this spatial development strategy into the Law on the Construction of Priority Sections of Railways, we hear that the current coalition, which was also a coalition in the previous term, does not support these solutions that the law is not suitable for further procedure. It has not happened since 1996, except in the previous mandate, when we introduced some priority sections into the law and started updating them, including the section of the railway line or section of Grosuplje-Kočevje to Ortnek, in order for anything important to happen on these sections. In 1996-1997, we married over 100 billion tolars and dedicated them to the reconstruction of railway sections. Since then, these sections have been implemented and renewed. And when we adopted the budget and proposed to ensure the continuation of the renewal of the railway line from Ortnek, where it ends, towards Kočev, there was no such coalition support. And when we now propose that the law will allow the project to continue to be implemented against the White Krajina, against Montenegro, I see that there will also be no support for it now. We are talking free of charge about regional development, we are talking about the problems of individual areas for free, we are talking in the National Assembly about the development problems of Dolenjska, not Dolenjska, but Bela Krajina and Kočevska, if, when we have some projects on the table that are "specially" dedicated to these areas, those that are represented and do not support them. In fact, they're active against it, as in this case. Actively against. And we no longer understand why we are talking on the one hand about the need for state aid, the need to help these areas, and on the other hand, when we get concrete proposals on the table that the Government has not proposed to them, but, say, from the Slovenian Democratic Party, you are actively opposed to these concrete projects. Why is it necessary to be so double - minded, so seductive?Oh, my God! I think it is healthy that anyone sitting in the National Assembly dealing with regional development, transport policy, should support this bill. If any sections have fallen off this list in the 15th, they may be supplemented by an amendment. In case of accidental underfunding, the share of GDP can also be increased and so on. Arms may also be reduced if construction is more rational. However, the law must be adopted with some resolutions that become revolutions when they are not implemented. Let's not do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? One moment, please. Mr. Weber, what would you like? Does the representative of the government want a word? Mr. Weber, there'll be time left and then we'll figure it out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, I must apologize to the Minister, and obviously to myself, because the function of the Secretary of State is not high enough for this esteemed assembly, but as long as this is allowed in business, I hope that you will accept it. Just as I will accept the fact that in such important proposals made by the opposition here today, not half of the group is here to support all these proposals. But I'll talk about it some other time. I agree with the arguments that the issue of rail transport is a matter of the past. I agree, you're right. But I am very sorry that, above all, the opposition did not listen to the government's explanation or was obviously not clear enough. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll read one sentence again. The competent ministry does not agree with this, as it is preparing a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure, the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in public rail infrastructure and the proposal for a law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructure in space. So not only do you state the national programme as you do all the time and I think you are also misleading. The national programme is urgently adopted. You know that since 1996, there has been a national programme, and in due course no one has gone to solve this problem, nor has anyone gone to solve the financing of this problem, pardon, the problem of financing infrastructure. This, of course, has led to such and different claims today. I hope that it does not have to be repeated that we want to solve the whole area with one systemic approach and that not only the preparation of the national programme will be regulated here, but funding is also what has been obvious all along. We are fully aware of the problem, and therefore we want to approach this system in order to fully address this area so that we can achieve that some Members can take up new and modern rail infrastructure before they retire. However, I would like to add only one thing to the obvious that the Government is not involved in the debate. I think it's very clear when the government can say something to certain eyes. However, I am disappointed at the misinformation that is circulating in this circle, with various allegations that meetings with the negotiations with the aircraft have been cancelled, today technical meetings in Trieste are being held, which I do not know, do not come to the National Assembly or do not read newspapers. As well as these claims that the Pontebian track has three tracks, I would like to ask that we do not confuse ourselves with such claims that do not exist. There is a two-track track and there is a ponteb track in Italy with which we are not engaged in this proposed law in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	Mrs. Tanko, what do you want? Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Chairman. I do not think it is the task of the Secretary of State to deal with Members and deal with how many are present in the Chamber, how they vote or how they will vote. Unfortunately, the distinguished representative of the government, the vote on this bill is only Tuesday. So that you can further study and advise the coalition so that it may also support it. However, it is a duty, because you have been announced when this meeting of the National Assembly will be held, that the representatives of the Government are here and that, given that these are structural laws in the field of transport, it is most common for your Minister to sit at this meeting of the National Assembly and that your Minister could be responsible for all these matters that are here. Unfortunately, there are no government representatives. Those who come, however, obviously know neither ethics nor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and discuss everything except what the law says. The government representative is here to talk about solutions to the marriage. Not that he is dealing with whether an entire parliamentary group is present or perhaps someone is missing. Our Group of Members is sufficiently well represented in this debate. The government, however, takes an hour and, I don't know how long it's been since it's been able to report to the debate, but it's sitting here quietly and watching. And as for other parliamentary groups, coalition groups, really - no one, liberal democracy - 1, SD - half, and there is no one missing from DeSUS, when we are already at the level of constructiveness and presence in the National Assembly. Presidents, I propose that you give the Government's representatives advance attention to what they can discuss and what their task is in the National Assembly. Those of us who are the proponents, who have positions and what to say in the National Assembly, are going to sign up and say, by list, as you call us, and we are going to discuss this. This is not a government representative's job. On the contrary, the government reports to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I really can't control what the government says. Well, we've been listening. As far as the Minister's presence is concerned, it is probably the same for Members today. Today it is just a debate, only the first consideration of this law is. There is no vote, and that is why this response was expected; you all know that. Mr. Brultz, would you like to? [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, there's gonna be a debate when we're done with this point. And if there's any time left to discuss it, I'll split it up. Mr. Verlich, as your candidate, you still have time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end, let me once again propose that we all take time together and read this bill. What I understand is that it disturbs the representatives of coalition parties is that the text of "priority railway links" has been moved from resolution to law. And that is, in fact, the main message - that this is more appropriate in the resolution. Although we know that the resolution will practically list all these priority sections. They will, because I have not heard any of the debaters say in any way that these are not priority rail routes that are important for the Republic of Slovenia. Why, then, is it a problem that the National Assembly, which deals with various declarations when it comes to greenhouse gases, does not put the specific bill into a further stage of discussion? In fact, we no longer need a resolution because we have more than a resolution, a more important act - the law. And we write in the law what are the priorities for the Republic of Slovenia. Why would that be bad? I didn't hear that argument today. Just so it's in the resolution. But we know the fate of the 1996 resolution, it has been implemented 30%, and we know the fate of the late government resolution, even to offer a proposal, this proposal has been prepared to discuss this and to propose even more binding documents, an even more binding act, which then obliges us all to take these corridors to implement these railways. This was the first purpose of this proposal and I have not heard here that there would be opposition, except that this should be in a resolution. Why? Why not in the law, when we have a law before the domestic and foreign public, that tells us what the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia are and that then no one who has to negotiate abroad will have a hard time showing and saying, these are our priorities adopted by the highest authority with the highest legal act by law. And what's next? What else did we propose in law, what else did we write? We have translated the text, at least the meaningful text of international agreements on what standard of railway links we wish to have. If we know that the highway has to be four-way lanes, at a speed of 130 kilometres per hour, then it is right that the railway corridors are also appropriate technical competences, because I hear it and it's already coming through the media, and why 160, we don't need 160, and why not double-track, we don't need a double-track, let's lower it a little, because it's going to be 120 kilometers enough, and it's going to be one. They'll soon say, "Okay, let's go 80 kilometers an hour," and soon we'll be doing what it is, pretty good. You imagine that we would suggest the construction of motorways, and you would say, "No, let them be two-lane, and 80 kilometers an hour will be quite fast enough." No, because this country deserves a modern rail network and it's not unrealistic, it's not high speeds, it's not 300 kilometers an hour, it's high capacity railway connections that will be nicely connected into international space and with speeds that also give Slovenia a certain look, like a country that is infrastructure-conditioned and not just looking. I think it must be that this is a fair ambition, that we have adequate railway infrastructure. That was the other purpose. The third purpose, in addition to the two corridors of this proposal, is to establish regional lines as a priority. Last time, I caught a comment saying what the hell was Polish, Slovenian Horses, Zreče. Is that really a national priority? Yes, it is. It's for the development of a region. And interestingly, in the former law, the fact that we do not have provinces was why we cannot introduce urban passenger traffic between several municipalities. This was stated as a reason. Now that the relevant regional lines are placed in the map of Slovenia also as a national priority for the development of the regions, we do not know if we are for this or not, but this proposal of the law proposes this. It proposes national priorities, regional priorities, which are all of the utmost importance for the Republic of Slovenia. And we also write in the law the technical standards of these railway lines to make it clear to everyone what and how the state of Slovenia wants to build railways. Rocky. Therefore, the law is at first reading so that we can discuss the deadlines later. Why not? If someone thinks the 2030 deadline too far, okay, this is our proposal, based on some real assessment of all the capabilities that this country is overcoming in the area of infrastructure development. And then to note that the National Assembly has lost its role, namely, in the proposal for a law, certain powers are transferred to the Government, in particular because the operationality of the construction of the railway infrastructure would be increased. Only so that the operationality of the implementation of this project would be faster. However, if the proposal is different, this text may also be amended. It's the same with funding sources. We thought it was extremely important as a proposaler that the budget source that is most crucial for us here, which is in the preparation of the budget, to write it down in the text of the law. And we wrote it down, at least 0.9% of the gross social product. It could also now be calculated how much percentage, how much percentage of gross social product is earmarked for railways. It's just written in the marriage proposal. In fact, all the key messages we need are given so that this project can now continue with the law that there are no more excuses. We have a law to enforce in sections, in deadlines, in financial sources, which are defined and also by procedures. Indeed, it was also mentioned that the fact that placement procedures would start faster was not well written in the law. The law simply says that all legislation adopted must be respected, and if the Law on the Placement of Line Objects is adopted, it will be so much better. But, unfortunately, I must say, when it was also on the Committee on Space and Transport, when the timetable was shown, when the Government plans to adopt regulations on State spatial plans, or for road development axes, which were moved in 2013. The government's response to what this will mean if this new law, which is so promised, and by the way, is already lagging behind the normative plan as to how short it will be. Now the government has prepared the 2013 anniversary, for example, if the law is passed, then we all expect, because it will be something better, it will probably be the 2011 anniversary and there is nothing wrong here. There is nothing wrong with this law, but we also give the Government the power to make a precise timetable for how the railway infrastructure modernisation projects will be implemented. We're giving her that authority why not. He's the executive. Clearly, however, the National Assembly is not excluded from the procedure, as this proposal also imposes the obligation to report regularly on the status and progress of projects. Look, that's all. Your suggestion is that this will be in a resolution that is likely to be similar to those we have already known, but will it have the weight that the law has? Not according to our belief. We believe that today we are in a situation where railway corridors need to be protected by law, for domestic reasons, as well as for international reasons, and so that this National Assembly can say that there is a step forward in the field of transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Seven reported in five minutes. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The law sets out the priorities for the construction of railways, simplification, acquisition of documentation and acceleration of acquired land, the objectives of building and modernising infrastructure, which is necessary and has been delayed for too long. It remains all about debates and promises, and it is therefore right to deal with the matter with all seriousness, as the need for modern rail infrastructure has lasted too long. The Slovenian economy requires the modernisation of this railway infrastructure, because in this case it will also relieve all Slovenian motorways, which are currently overloaded by freight transport, mainly by foreign trucks. The increasingly poor infrastructure ranks us as non-competitive compared to other European countries, and the losses are increasing, which tells us that we must urgently achieve our objectives by ensuring the economy's conditions as it knows in Europe. He forgot about the railroad all the time. I hope that this proposal will not be rejected by those who have already been alerted to the mistakes made earlier today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll be very simple to say. We've got Slovenia, which is old age. During this period, we have done nothing for Slovenian Railways, but I believe that there is no one in this Chamber who could claim that we did not know what is the priority development axis on railways or on state roads or, I will say, on the economy. This has been known since independence until today. And if I sum up what we haven't done, I can list half an hour, of course, matters that we deliberately overlooked or ignored because they didn't have the right priorities. On the railways, of course, we forgot that, at least other countries, if we take only Croatia, which was at war, it updated the system by at least 200% more than we did when we had the opportunity, time and money, when the economic climate was still favourable, and we did not do so. So they are also building a direct link with Hungary. We've made it almost useless today. And I would like to say that the projects that were included in the first ten priority projects in Europe, I am speaking for the Koper - Divac project, have not received adequate financial support within the national budget. I have written five questions in my previous term. Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not provide the budget line for the use of the EUR 4 million we received to prepare the project documentation for the construction of the second track? For four years, we argued, and we put it off a few times. I believe that in fact Europe no longer believes us. If we look at what we've done in the area of signal security, what we've done in the area of security. We still have visuals, ladies and gentlemen. The visuals. These are outdated signals that Europe no longer knows. And the important thing is that we keep looking at how someone gets here and how this system is going to be saved. Of course, on this one, I'll say, unorganized terrain will not be a strategic partner. I can tell you that. And I believe that the government, this government, is taking this problem seriously, which has grown ever larger over the years and has grown into an uncontrollable situation and is therefore looking in some way for the first step in rehabilitation and later in modernisation. I support that if we look at it this way, but at the same time we forget one important thing, let us ignore the national interest. Even the work we have to do is slowly put into the hands of a stranger. We must be European comparable and not be European discriminatory. And this is where other operators are coming to our area. In fact, we have already reported quite a few, some of them have already received this so-called safety certificate and foreigners do not bring in new products. But they're going after this part that's actually introduced, a little bit of so-called profitable loads, 10, I can count them for you. And of course they're taking over. And what the government notes today is that for so little work there is no money for such a number of employees. We've fired 1,000 people, we'll fire 1,000 more people, and so on. I believe that recovery is necessary in this context, because the cost of work is the greatest cost, in each segment of production this can be seen as the biggest cost. But that's not the right solution. First, we must safeguard national interests, secondly, we must ensure the safety and orderliness of rail transport. We forget about it. I have already warned several times in this Chamber that if an accident occurs, we will require those responsible because it does not invest in maintenance, infrastructure or maintenance of driving equipment. And it's going to happen because things are dropping out, and I'm just going to tell you this, sometimes we've had checkups, year-on-year checks and audit-like repairs, today we've deleted the checks and we've only got audit repairs. Of course, on these audit repairs, we give, we install those spare parts that we have restored, we regenerate parts and this is not quality maintenance. Not to mention how old the train park is. And until we find the right priorities and do what we can today with our knowledge and with our own people, our own people at our disposal, nothing will turn out any better. The government will be able to do as much as it wants, but the indicators will always be red as this red number is now with me when I've already gone down with the time spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Nicely greeted. Unlike some, of course, I agree with the Secretary of State's observations, because we live in a democratic country and can be told how we behave. Today we are obviously all road and rail experts, and I think if the Minister of Transport were to sit here and waste time with us, I wouldn't take much of that away. I think that in the previous debate that Mr Friend, my friend Friend, has had, indeed, a debate that has made clear exactly what is the situation on Slovenian railways and how well it is to handle the issue. I think there are other discussions, the exchange of blue lights and so on, just waving holes in a bunch of ignorance about the topic that is in the debate. Goriška is not in this document. Goriška is particularly well-endowed with railway infrastructure and is in fact cut off from the world. That is why I think it is right to say that the Jesenice-Nova Gorica route is an extraordinary national wealth, a unique track with a railway bridge over 103 years old, with the largest stone arch in the world and so on. Our constant fear is that this route will begin to deteriorate so that it will no longer be useful for what is actually the most useful thing today, it is for the needs of tourism. Tourist museum trains in Europe are very valuable acquisitions, an additional offer of tourism. I think here's our perspective. The second part of the line was once connected by Trieste with Austria, is the Nova Gorica-Sežana line, we are talking about Novi Gorica, Gorica and Sežani, which is said to be Italian Gorica, which is urgently needed for electrification. I must say that here with the Italian partners in the framework of the Adria A project we are working closely on how to obtain European funds, first for paper documentation and later for more. And we are also aware that there is a great danger that Goriška bypasses the V. corridor and that we will be a dead pocket in this room. At the same time, we are all likely to see that this freight line from Padska and the western part of Europe towards the east, towards Kiev, Ukraine, is right through the Vipav Valley. And this valley is transport, rail, in fact, completely unrelated. All these proposals must be well prepared, including taking into account the needs of the local population. I think that our ministry is in a position to prepare so that everything, even today in this document, will be affected by the proposed innovations and needs. In this present proposal, as I said, northern Primorska does not exist, which we cannot overlook. We also forget that this route I have been talking about is also very important from a European point of view, Nova Gorica-Sežana and Nova Gorica-Esenice. For it is in fact the shortest route from the port of Koper to the north; it is spoken against Austria, Germany, and other countries. However, we know that some heavy freight transport on infrastructure, which was built under Austro-Hungarian soil, would require much too much recovery. However, at the time of the earthquake and the major disasters on the Italian side, we had this route under additional strain. Today there was a time-limit offered by the opposition, of course, thank you very much. However, would you ask how much land you have bought for these new infrastructures in four years, how many building permits do we have from the past period and can we start investing in this urgently needed infrastructure today? And I don't accept anyone on that side of the hall talking to us today about catharsis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Your Honor! I will proceed with what has ended up being the respectable Mr. Brulc of SD, only to turn the mirror. In fact, let's see what Mr. Minister is actually doing. The Minister has an official duty to be here and talk about the future of transport in the country of Slovenia in order to face real problems and then to be able to talk much more seriously, we could also talk about a policy that is reflected in your negative attitude towards this bill, and this is a real policy in action, not in words that are typical of the ruling coalition. In fact, if all those words about ecology that you have sown in the last weeks and months, when you have additionally taxed even electric motor bikes under the cover of ecology, please, and in short, treat citizens and citizens exclusively as dairy cows for your insatiable needs to meet the narrow groups on which you intend to base your next election story. Then we could talk here about what is really ecological when it comes to transport and that in Slovenia does not burden Slovenia's transport of the most Slovenian environment, but it is transit, in the first place freight transit. And then we would talk about that any reasonable country in modern Europe, the example of which could be as much as neighbouring Austria, directs all transit traffic to the railway as much as possible, because it is more environmentally acceptable and corresponds to this system for many other reasons, but it is necessary to establish an appropriate railway infrastructure, which can also be a major driver of development. Let me mention just one part that is covered in this law, which is excellently prepared, and you admit that when you leave this room, many of the coalition do. In fact, as one of the priorities of this law is to build a link with Jožet Pučnik's airport and, of course, with this future "airport city", as it is officially called, or with the entire part of the infrastructure that will be linked to this project, which is of national importance and is also of great importance for the development of Gorenjska, which I am also representing in the National Assembly. And because you have no arguments, and because it is more pleasant to drive with the blue light on the retreat belt when they are on the road column or surrounded by various "turboangels" and similar, today we are talking in a hall where there is no proper representation with the government, nor is there an appropriate approach. And in a situation where there is no one in this Chamber from two parties in the ruling coalition, someone from the ruling coalition "salts" that someone is also missing from the opposition. Yes, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Who has the authority?Oh, my God! We can propose, we can warn, we can also prepare a good project, a development project such as the one we are offering today, an ecologically oriented development project, ladies and gentlemen. Exactly what you're defending in your words, and then we come across a mockery - because of course it's not the right argument against it. I don't know what the government is equipped with with all its powerful apparatus and, above all, in this case, the Ministry of Transport is working, but if it were to be serious, with all the resources it has at its disposal, it would be able to draw up a law that is at least as equivalent as this one. He's not here! And once such an eco- and developmentally important bill appears in the National Assembly, it is rejected by some flat-rate theory, yes, someday we will completely settle it. Please, you are entirely regulating only the economic downturn of the country of Slovenia and its indebtedness, which is indeed a great success for you. In one year you have indebted this poor Slovenia for more than half of what was the entire debt of the former Yugoslavia that brought it down. And that is without restoring one important railway line.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Respectable. First of all, I would like to tell the representatives of the government that we have discussed all those who have applied from the SDS. We've also applied extra. But it is true that all of us who have applied do not necessarily sit here all the time. But the time we announced has also been spent, unlike some others. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to say is that we will not vote today either. If we vote today, it would be a disaster anyway, because those who have to provide a quorum are not. But I have no comment on their presence, that's none of my business. As far as the Pontebian line is concerned, I'd like to say the following. Of course, we all know that the Pontebian track is not in Slovenia. Unfortunately, she is not in Slovenia, because the ponteb track has been arranged and I was on the Internet now and I was able to quickly inform myself that she is qualified for speeds of 200 kilometres per hour. If there's something wrong with the Internet, then I apologize, but that's the way it is. And I mentioned the Pontebian track in this sense that Slovenia must not sleep in the construction of infrastructure because others are working. And I mentioned Italy and Austria. And I also mentioned that Slovenia must not fall asleep because we are not an island in some wilderness, but others surround us. Although we have the advantage of placing the fifth and tenth corridors, this is currently, but it can change very quickly. In this context, I mentioned the Pontebian line. I said he's got three grand. I found at least 10 or 20 articles in the past, which I read, Slovenian, where it was mentioned that the ponteb has three tracks. I haven't checked it, and I still argue that I doubt that in the articles the authors made such a mistake or were misleading. I doubt it. In any event, checked today ten minutes ago, it says that the Pontebian track is modernised for speeds of up to 200 kilometres per hour and that Italy and Austria are intensively building this corridor, Pontebic, from Venice to Vienna. This is something that can be very dangerous to us or, if you want, very competitive. In this context, the Pontebian line must be understood. If we behave like ostriches in Slovenia and see nothing about what others do, then of course we are the best. But unfortunately, with us or around us, they build routes for significantly higher speeds and invest huge amounts of money. And that's what I was gonna say. And I still say that's true. I'm sorry or luckily so. And nothing helps. Nothing helps if I don't talk about names in this government, because I can't do that, but if they close their eyes in this government or put their heads in the sand, Italy and Austria rebuild their tracks. Austria is building a tunnel right on this ponteb track. It's very embarrassing for us, I can tell. Not to mention other countries, which also work intensively in Europe in new transport corridors, which is likely to be in Switzerland, a long tunnel under the Alps, which will be close to 50km long and will be built around 2014. This is likely to have certain consequences and will be diverted somewhere. Therefore, Slovenia must not sleep. In this context, this law must also be understood. Not that we're trying to beat someone up. That wouldn't make any sense. But others work, others don't sleep, despite the crisis that is, some invest intensely. And this is what Slovenia must pay attention to and must mate with those other countries that would like to take us part of the traffic on these corridors that are still in Slovenia. They are on paper, how will this be in practice in ten years or fifteen years, because railways are planned for 20, 30, 40 years ahead, and there is another question. And what we are starting today will have an effect or consequences only after a good ten years. In this context, there is no need to cultivate any resentment if we also want the Minister to be here. I think it would be right, this culture, that the Minister must be here, we learned in particular in the previous term when this previous opposition demanded. If the minister wasn't here, then everything was wrong. Then, too, some left the meeting and caused unconscionableness. This is what parliamentary practice can be said to be introduced or maintained in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I must point out once again that this law does not, by any chance, refer to how much resources we need for these sections that you mentioned in this law. It would therefore be completely simple, and it would be very easy, to write in this law another line that you lack. And that's the trail around the world. And this law then imposes on the Government, within three months of the regulation, the establishment of resources for a road around the world and deadlines for a road around the world when it is built. This is the content of this law and this is the weakness of this law. I hope we understand what I'm alerting you to. With regard to other matters, see, you are proposing 0.9% of the gross social product for railways. If we are looking at the 2011 budget, for this purpose, the budget, which has been adopted for €440 million, you are proposing €300,000 and €220 million. So 100 million euros is already in the budget today, when you propose for 2011. This marriage is also unnecessary. If we look at the system you're implementing 0.9 GDP, it's kind of comparable to the weapons system. There we have, I think, a 1.4-gross social product for weapons. The weapons procedure is followed by the Government or the Ministry of Defence. What happened to the patriarchs? My dears, you also want to legalize the patriotic system in the railways. That's not how it works. Parliament is here, which must also actually discuss what are the priorities, what is the source and when we will build something. That's how our legal system is defined. But you actually want to legitimize the patriotic funding system. It's not so good to do this. As for Mr Tank, I would say, the very important amendments that have been tabled in the 2010 budget regarding the modernisation of the nomadic line, the first phase, the SDS amendment of three million four hundred and twenty-nine thousand Euros. Government response: the amendment is unnecessary because the first phase of this railway line is budgeted at EUR 33 million, which is enough to complete the first phase. And that's why this amendment is unnecessary. And I may have said that ten times, and maybe I don't know how many more times, but I hope I've made myself clear this time. Because he was talking about you putting in an amendment to continue the route from Ortnek to Kočev. That's not true either. An amendment was tabled for the first phase. However, the Government’s response makes it very clear that the funds for the second phase, documentation and implementation of works in 2011 are planned under the item Maintenance works for the public benefit and Public Railway Infrastructure Investments. So the funds are secured. I hope I don't have to do this again. I don't know how many times. There are no further questions and doubts as to why the SDS amendment was rejected. I warned you, ask before writing any amendments. If we say it's appropriate, it'll be accepted, but if it's unnecessary, we really can't accept it. With regard to the law once again, the biggest shortcomings, I stress once again, are not evaluated by these sections and how the government should say in three months after the regulation, we will build 15 million Euros of railways in Slovenia and for 15 million Euros we will collect resources. That's not what the government can say. That's not what the law allows. But you want to legitimize it, you can't, you can't actually. This is a reminder of why we cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Look, my predecessor has unfortunately spoken this way, talked about the way around the world, and I have a feeling that he was in a weightless state in some orbit, and that he hasn't landed yet, that he doesn't feel that he's talking over the weight law that rules here and now on Earth. On the other hand, I want to say a few things. This law sets out in these explanations what are the national consequences of good rail infrastructure. We're probably all aware that without this Luke Koper, he's gone in the long run. To surround us and that this coalition has already taken one step towards the gradual evaluation, closure or blocking of Luke Koper through an arbitration agreement for Croatia. Look, the Prime Minister of the Government has signed off on a voluntary basis and has received a message from Swedish Foreign Minister Karl Bildt that they are shutting down the Embassy in Ljubljana. Do they know what this message is? Slovenia has done everything the Swedish Presidency has asked for in favour of Croatia, and it is likely that it will now be even diplomaticly covered from Zagreb. And this today's attitude towards this issue, which is extremely important for national affairs, is once again deplorable, humiliating, ignorant and Mr State Secretary does not understand this. He's legally fit for this treatment, but a minister who's from Kopra, when it comes to such vitals for Koper, doesn't come to this meeting. The Minister's presence doesn't understand the symbolic significance. The coalition isn't actually in here in these benches. I believe that it is true that they are talking, indeed, to teach DeSUS Members who must be accepted as Minister of the Environment. And they're in trouble because they don't kneel immediately. They're dealing with it. Instead of talking here about strategic issues, about suitable routes to enable speed - no, we listen to the evidence from the coalition, which so irresponsibly acts towards the development of Slovenia. I would like to, or at least think so myself, because I have been in the economy for 20 years in the responsible places, that Slovenia should have made a strategic plan for the routes too long, this law does not contain, because then we would have said that we are going astray. However, be aware that Kranian industrialists had made plans before World War II for a route somewhere from Vodice, south of Kranj, between Kranj and Ljubljana, along the Tuhin Valley, a short tunnel through Menino Mountain to Savinja Valley. And that's the optimal route. Today we should decide that the route through Zasavje due to the heavy relief is not a long-term perspective. It is necessary to make an optimal, perhaps even cheaper option, such as the renewal of the track for such speeds through Zasavje. But nobody thinks about it?Oh, my God! If the industrialists then knew what fast transport was, fast delivery, why there is no reflection in the Slovenian government and institutions under control. That's what I'm wondering. In fact, there is no strategic reflection. And in the absence of strategic thinking, things are falling apart. The former government has at least made guarantees for railways to move forward, but not because it has become a bit difficult [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The moment that those contractors, SCT and Primorje and others dedicated, were absolutely privileged, you put it all on the side and now [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 2 February, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day - First of all, it is a proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed draft law, Dr. Petr Verlic, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The bill tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group sets out the priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. As in the previous law, we believe that Slovenia, as a country, deserves to have legally defined priorities, sections of public roads. The priority sections, as set out in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous mandate, are the automatic sections now included in the proposal for this Act, namely the 3rd development axis from the border with Austria, Dravograd-Holmec, Metlik-Vinica and the border with Croatia; the 3rd development axis of Škofljica-Petrina, the border with Croatia, and the 4th development axis of the border with Italy, Robič-Jeprca and Želen-Logatec. Additional highway program, Divača-Postojna - Jelsane border with Croatia, Koper-Dragonja, Koseze-Kosarje, Drazenci-Gruškovje, border with Croatia, Šmarje Sap-Višnja Gora, western part of Maribor, Dramalje-Sentjur, Povodje-Stanežice, and southern part of Ljubljana-Škofljica. In addition to the sections of the public roads referred to in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, the following are identified as priority sections: 5th development axis, namely on the route Unec-Žlebič-Ribnica-Kočevje-Novo City; 5.A development axis: Črnommelje-Kočevje, connecting the 4th development axes with Gorenje at the section Kranjska Gora-Bovec with the tunnel Vršič, building the second pipeline of the highway tunnel Karavanka, Kranj - Jezersko - border with Austria, which represents an interstate connection of strategic importance in a developmental sense, since the existing link is inadequate and from a transport aspect dangerous, the airport Jožet Pučnika - motorway - the so-called Kranj-Eston connection, which represents the completion of the road infrastructure and connects the central airports with the highway and the completion of the circles and the movement of the road to a new route to the new runway. The eastern and western railway Novo mesto, which represents the project under the third development axis, solves the traffic situation of the New Town and connects the bypass to the rim. Čatež - Slovenska Bistrica, a modern and permissive section of the country of the road which connects the Dolenjska and Stajerski kark motorway on the far east of the Slovenian-Croatian border and takes place on the route Čatež - Bizeljsko - Bistrica ob Sotli - Podčetrtek - Mestinje - Poljčane - Slovenska Bistrica. The project represents the so-called observer development axis. Ljubljana - Litija - Zidani Most and we link to the 3rd development axis, the so-called project of the Zasavska development axis and the section of the A1, Kamnik - Gornji Grad - Mozire motorway and link to the 3rd development axis. This link represents an improvement in the accessibility and transport connectivity of the Celje and Savino-Shales region with the rest of the road network. In our view, these sections certainly deserve a legal definition. The law defines, as in the previous proposal, that the deadline for the completion of section construction is the final one, 31. 12. 2030. However, those identified in the resolution of national development projects by the end of 2020. There is also a funding source of at least 0.6% of GDP per year between 2012 and 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Igor Jakomin, Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia proposes to establish priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia for their construction, method of obtaining documentation and sources of funding. To the projects contained in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, the draft law proposes an additional 10 projects linking or forming separate development axes. The draft resolution is expected to be completed by 2020 and additional proposed projects by the end of 2030. The proposed law does not adequately regulate the content which, under the Law on Public Roads, falls under the National Programme for the Development and Maintenance of State Roads, which the National Assembly adopts as a resolution. The national programme needs to provide responses to the basic sources of transport policy, to the impact of the road network on the economy, and in particular to future economic development, and to determine the level of road network services accordingly. Under the Law on Public Roads, a national programme and not a specific law sets out a series of priorities for the maintenance and development of state roads, resources for their implementation, and the dynamics and scope of individual development tasks during the planning period, with priority setting based on objective transport, technical, economic and environmental criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law regulates the content which falls under the Law on Public Roads in the National Programme for the Development and Maintenance of State Roads and is adopted as a resolution in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that the bill will help to regulate and maintain public roads more quickly, and in particular to draw up appropriate legislation and documentation, which is in many parts, as is known, in a very poor state. Above all, we hope in the parliamentary group that it will accelerate the adoption of the National Programme for the Development and Maintenance of State Roads, as provided for in Article 23 of the Law on Public Roads. The highway construction project is nearing its end, so it is imperative to prepare everything necessary to rebuild and maintain and build state roads. The first condition for the development of an area or municipality is road management, accessibility, which we in the SLS remind each mandate over and over again, and we have been actively involved in this. But always the problem, as has been said at the previous point or a few points back, of finance. The national programme needs to provide responses to the main sources of transport policy, to the impact of the road network on the economy, and in particular to future economic development, and to determine the level of road network services accordingly. Road construction is also important from the point of view of providing work in construction and related industries, which, at least according to economists' forecasts, are expected to face even worse times this year. It is therefore strategically important for the country to ensure that the maintenance and construction of the road network continues. For the benefit of all the people in remote areas, the economy and our society as a whole, it would be good if we could already establish a programme to rebuild and build public roads or emergency sections. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the principles and objectives set out in the proposal, such as accelerating the construction of priority sections of public roads, simplifying and expediting the procedures for preparing documentation, simplifying and expediting the procedures for issuing all necessary permits and simplifying and expediting the acquisition of land and property. In doing so, I would stress what I have stressed earlier, as has been pointed out several times at the previous point, that as soon as possible due to the difficulties of putting routes into space, this infrastructure must be accompanied by the adoption of a law on the placement of infrastructure, transport, energy, water facilities in the space as soon as possible because of, as said, difficulties in putting them in place. We will support, as we say, this law in the hope that it will accelerate the preparation of everything necessary to regulate this important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia is a proposal that, according to an assessment by the DeSUS Group, regulates in an inadequate manner the content belonging to the National Programme for the Development and Maintenance of State Roads, as provided for in Article 23 of the Law on Public Roads. The national programme, however, sets out the order of priorities for the maintenance and development of state roads, the allocation of resources for their implementation, and the dynamics and extent of the implementation of individual development tasks during the planning period, with the identification of priorities based on objective transport, technical, economic and environmental criteria. The fact is that the national programme is the one that responds to the basic sources of transport policy, to the impact of the state of the road network, on the economy and on future economic development. Given that the most important conditions for the development of the respective road areas are appropriate, the level of road network services should be established accordingly. The maintenance of the road network is of exceptional economic and political importance and should therefore also be duly set up. Because in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal to regulate the area of priority sections of public roads has gone in the wrong form, the proposal before us will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that the main objective of the law is essentially to accelerate with regard to priority sections that have not yet been built, which have somehow been forgotten in Slovenia. I come alone from Primorska. Idria isn't connected to the Logatz today. And if we have previously listened carefully to the applicant, all these priority development axes are covered in these programmes, in this law, as well as the priority sections of public roads envisaged by the resolution on national development for the period 2007 to 2023. I would like to say something about how we dealt in the past with the money that basically all taxpayers intended to have today highways, as well as other state roads, we know that they are almost completely neglected, good, but we do not have them in the same condition as we would like to have them. Therefore, the commission investigating today how the money was spent, whether the works were paid fairly, or whether, say, the quantity correctly evaluated and also the cost of the work. Today the highway is just a construction site, ladies and gentlemen. If you drive from Sežana to Maribor, you will see that what we claim is being repaired. The guarantees have not been regulated and we will probably have to divest future state budgets from this state budget, because the contract has not been properly concluded, the guarantees have been arranged, and no guarantees have been provided by companies, and pay for the repair of the poorly done work that has been overpaid. As a rule, each contract was followed by an annex and, on the second day or even a few hours after the signature of the basic contract, the works were also undermined by 100%. That's the only thing anyone cares about. Today we are talking about poor road conditions, not to mention the state of state roads, they are completely destroyed and no longer suitable for driving, some sections should be closed down. We have been working very hard with these public finances at home, and none of us here wonders why we don't have enough money for that kind of money anymore. Today we are talking about the fact that we have forgotten about Koroška, we are talking about forgetting about the Idrija area, we are talking about the fact that we do not actually have the third development axis, or Zasavje and Posavje, adequately resolved. We're talking about the price we're going to have to pay in the next period to make up for the delay. And in the state budget, we will essentially have to devote at least 0.6 GDP to these priorities, which we have forgotten, and according to Umar's 2011 estimate, this is some 228 million euros. But if we look at the period from 2012 to 2030, this is 4.3 billion euros. We'll have to give it to have decent roads at least. How many maintenance works there will be that cause the poor quality of the work done, and we now see the performers, how Pilately they wash their hands, no one is responsible for it. This will be an assessment that will be visible in a few years. And we're going to hang this cost for taxpayers. I would like to determine what the assessment of the financial implications for the state budget will be, to determine who are responsible for the poor work done in the past period. For almost two decades, we have been building these roads, and we have done so very domestically. As regards these priorities, which are enshrined in this bill, they find it difficult to challenge because they are all necessary. I would only say this, if we do not have a serious approach and responsibility in the use of public finances, these errors will be repeated. And it is irrelevant if we support such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party, even if we provide the money if we make this money for the work that will be done as it has been done so far. We, for example, forgot to build a third dog at the section of the Styria region, but we deliberately deleted it. Unacceptable. We're building so bad that, in fact, the gallery and the tunnels for the builders are almost toppling. Obstacle's gone. Not to mention the budgetary implications when we find that the contractor is unable to perform construction works. The case was in the Troyan tunnel when we dismissed the Italian partner and handed over the works with an extra charge to the SCT. It happens now that we are building the last section of the Coastal Highway, when we have entered into a contract that damage is not liable to the operator. We know how demanding this tunnel is, Markovec, and how expensive the villas are above this hill, the multimillion - dollar villas that are likely to be damaged by construction works there. And that's what we're going to put on the taxpayers. Who make up these contracts, who is so irresponsible, who allows these construction works to be carried out so recklessly and poorly? Do you think that in an easy way, we can accept the four-billion-euro debt in an easy and insensitive way, both over our fingertips, if we haven't done back-to-back analysis, if we don't know who's responsible for the situation we have today? I would ask that each of the Members drive from Kopra to Maribor and list how much prison will run into how many of these are being carried out, they say, so-called running maintenance works. They're not running maintenance, they're emergency maintenance. On the other hand, we are stepmotherly toward what we have built with tax money. We have no protection, I will say, these national traffic interests and we are launching heavy trucks on our roads that are destroying newly built motorways without thinking that we could redirect them to an alternative mode of transport, such as railways. Environmentally disputed cargo is rolling along these roads, more difficult transit goods, and can easily transit Slovenia. And we're gonna destroy these highways, 10% won't take what we expect. Why don't we have an intervention law so that at least what we can redirect - I believe we can't do everything - on the railways? This has been done by many European countries. Let us take a closer look at our neighbors, as long as we do not see them. Austria made it. I think that also because of the relation to the ecological situation in Slovenia, Slovenia is only a watershed area, or if you want, the Natura 2000 itself. At least that's how we drew when we drew this protected area of Slovenia. Why don't we protect this Slovenian area in such a way as to prevent this difficult transit transport sphere from being carried out by road. I'd be happy to support this because it's urgent. And it's irrelevant to say whether we support this or not. But if we do so with the appropriations, I believe that we will have to approve these funds because we will have to end this because this is also defined in the resolution on the national development of projects for 2007 to 2023. All that has been written down by the proponents has already been adopted in some government regulation. We must first set ourselves the criteria of morality, quality and consistency. If that is not the case, we will be able to talk about the road mafia, which is such as -- already grabs and spreads its claws onto the railway, where there is talk of one billion, how, together with European funds, this mechanism will move into this area. And it won't be any different there either. Trust me! Unless we introduce the principle of morality, quality and consistency. This is an emergency. We need to do it as soon as possible. I hope, however, that this commission investigating this mafia relationship, this national assembly commission, will also find interesting matters and which of those who have done as they have done, will take personal advantage of what is some of them, we know these 'building barons' to be brought before an appropriate court and will also be responsible for what they have done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government. Fellow Members and fellow Members. Today, we certainly all agree that the state road network, which is more than 6,500 km away, needs to be upgraded and renewed. As we know, the state of state roads is relatively poor, and unfortunately it is becoming important to restrict active restrictions on the more coherent regional development of Slovenia. Particularly affected areas outside the affected area are motorways and fast roads. That is to say those local communities that do not lie at the fifth or tenth highway corridor. In our view, these local communities are in some way in a developmentally subordinate position. If we all agree on these findings, we differ in how and how we can achieve a common goal, and this is how to get a modern state road network within a reasonable time. As part of the government coalition in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we understand that the Government opposes the proposal of the law, as it is responsible for the state road network to prepare appropriate legal and other grounds for this project and to bring it into line with other policies for which it is also responsible. In particular, the state road network modernisation project needs to be aligned with the public financial capacity of the country, which will be marked by an urgent reduction of the budget deficit in the coming years. In view of the principle of the hierarchy of legal acts, formal reservations are also important. The draft law regulates the content which, under the Law on Public Roads, falls under the national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads and is adopted as a resolution, not by specific law. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will vote against the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposed law is intended to provide public good in the form of road infrastructure, which is one of the conditions for achieving sustainable development in transport policy. However, it should be pointed out that the content of the law does not properly govern the priorities of the construction of sections of public roads in Slovenia. The objectives and objectives of the development strategy are defined by the existing public road law through the national programme. The national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads is adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that a proposal for a proposal that is sufficient for non-binding resolutions and programmes that are not being implemented will make a well-meaning contribution to achieving the competitiveness of more coherent regional development and a more balanced spatial policy. We are not opposed to the proposed approach to identifying financial resources over a longer period for the development of the network of state roads, but we cannot help but feel that the applicant has taken an interest in favouring certain areas, rather than knowing the relevant legislation. Social Democrats are committed to coherent regional and polycentric development, but at the same time we believe in the rule of law and respect for it, so we cannot support a proposal which is well-intentioned, but not at any cost, but not under conditions of ignorance of the relevant legislation. Let us once again stress that the Law on Public Roads by means of a national programme sets out the order of priorities for maintaining the development of state roads, not a specific law. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the bill because we believe that it would bring confusion and irreparable harm to Slovenia's legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you. Branko Marinič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia was considered necessary by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. That is why we have been guided by one and a fundamental principle that good road infrastructure is a fundamental condition for ensuring greater road safety. Perhaps it is the wrong opinion on why we point out and why we propose the content of this law, because we are aware that Members and Members are also indirectly responsible for those major accidents that occur in the Republic of Slovenia, especially when the competent commission finds that a serious traffic accident has occurred because of the poor state of the road in that section. In our view, there have been quite a few such accidents and it might be appropriate to consider seriously whether the proposed sections of the priority that we define in Article 2 are proposed. It is true that some sections in the national highway construction programme are also highways, but it is also true that despite the adoption of this national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, some sections are at a time delay even after a few years, indicating that there is no money, but it shows that politics cannot agree between itself, whether what one political or other political option proposes is indeed necessary, regardless of whether the parliamentary group operates in coalition or opposition. It is also in our proposal that these are very serious matters and fundamental content that each law or the content of the bill must take into account. We didn't want to leave with anything, because we used a lot of content that was a good starting point in analysing some of the other members of the European Community. It is for this reason that some Member States have already set up or taken different steps to build roads 20 years ago, taking into account real priorities. This is best known by those who are planning this directly, and we have the feeling that we are all overestimating some political affiliation and that we do not want to support it, to complete individual content, because this proposal for the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, which we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is probably not missing some essential content. All the conditions which must be laid down in order for the law to be brought into the procedure are covered by the law. We are always disturbed by the government's opinion over and over again. In this context, too, we can find out if we look at what the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, namely, that in Article 1 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that it disagrees with and does not support the proposed content of the law. What if there was a comma and it continued, "it assumes responsibility for less safety on these roads, which we propose as a priority." Well, in the second paragraph of this same article, in fact, the government denies itself because it sets the opposite, "but this is absolutely necessary and we will also approach, we have already approached, the content is already emerging." But really, when we talk about transport policy in general, it's a matter that's going on. Traffic is an ongoing matter, taking place at night and at noon, that's 24 hours. In this case, account should also be taken of the individual categories or sections referred to as priorities, as I have already said, in Article 2 of the bill. We expect to come to some conclusions in a debate, which must also be substantively rich in this respect, that the proposal of the law is good, that at the stage of the procedure ahead of us we will upgrade it, and that this will be our common product, so that we can provide drivers and drivers with greater safety on the better roads that we are proposing as a matter of priority in our law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Those who checked out were taken into account. When you follow the schedule, they'll jump. The word has been given to you, sir. [[Mr. Zanoskar is not here.]] Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Proposers of the Law on the Construction of Priority Public Roads in the Republic of Slovenia went to the wrong end in accordance with the current legislation on problem resolution. What we have already heard today is that the Law on Public Roads provides for a resolution on the national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads to be adopted first in the National Assembly. Such a complex project is, of course, beyond the ability of the opposition, as the preparation of such a document would require the support of the professional services of the Government and individual ministries. That is why this law is part of those opposition proposals, which are not sufficiently prepared, which do not have the necessary professional support, who want to be targeted by a shortcut or more of their own promotion and are very popular to the public. However, I think it is appropriate to draw attention to some of the problems of the development of state road infrastructure in the country when this proposal is being considered and to encourage the Government to draw up a national programme. I would like to point out that in Slovenia we only have a national programme for the construction of the highway cross. In addition, the 1996 national rail construction programme, which is out of date. The national programme for the construction of state roads has been promised by all or almost all transport ministers so far. We have also seen some drafts, but such a document has not yet come to the National Assembly. The 2004 Slovenia Spatial Development Strategy, the 2006 Transport Policy Resolution and the Resolution on National Development Programmes of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007 to 2023. In all three documents, we also define the so-called development axes, the third, the third and the fourth development axes. However, individual projects on virtually all sections of state roads are recorded in the country's 2010-2014 development plans, which form an integral part of the state budgets for the years 2010 and 2011. Article 2 of the Act, which we are considering today, covers only 13 priority sections, which, according to the applicant's own opinion, have been highlighted. For this reason, it is essential that the Ministry of Transport, as mandated by the applicable legislation, adopt as soon as possible a national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads and also find adequate financial resources for its implementation. Hereinafter, I would like to highlight some problems regarding the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes, on the third, third and fourth development axes. The fact is that we urgently need these development axes. In my view, they should be an integral part of the exit strategy from the crisis. Why? The fact is that much of Slovenia has become more accessible by building the highway cross. There has been a concentration of economic operators, concentration of knowledge and migration. Other parts of Slovenia, including Northern Primorska, Koroška, Kočevska, Kozjanska and Obsotelje and Bela Krajina, are constantly losing development potential because of the poorer transport connections, so developmental problems have already occurred in these environments. Some provinces will not be helped by the planned modernisation of Slovenian railways, since there is no railway or construction planned there. This is particularly true for areas of the fourth development axis. Thus, the first railway station in Logatco is for the Idrian and Church region, and the second one on the Soča Bridge, while the second one is 70 kilometres without a railway track. As a result, development axes must also be an integral part of the so-called exit strategy from today's crisis. For all three of the largest developmental axes, it is common that their placement in space is very long-lasting and ineffective. For example, in the previous term, the President of the Government, Janez Janša, replied that the third development axis between Arja village and Velenje would start to be built in 2008, but has not yet been placed in the room. We have the same story in the fourth development axis between Cerkni and Gorenje village, where the first spatial conference was held in 2006 and the competent environmental and transport ministry services have not yet established the appropriate accommodation. The truth of the heart must be said that due mainly to the different positions of the congregations of Cerkno and Gorenje village, but I have the feeling that each time the authorities somehow correspond to the fact that there is no placement, because eventually there would be no money for their construction. Or, for example, the Idrian-logological leg of the fourth developmental axis, which runs from Idria to Logatca. Despite the fact that this section has been classified as a priority in Slovenia's spatial development strategy, it took me three years in the previous mandate for the Government to include it in a resolution for the period 2007 to 2023, but without the possibility of co-financing from the European Union funds. Although a number of projects are being implemented in this section, only from state budget resources, which of course means slower construction. My proposal at the joint meeting of the Transport and Environment and Space Committees was to include in the operational co-financing programmes of the European Funds for the financial perspective period up to 2013 the Idrija-logic edge of the fourth development axis. This has been welcomed by the Transport Ministry. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to the unacceptable idea that exists in some branches of the current government, so that more than half of the European Union funds from transport infrastructure and development axes can be diverted to other projects. For the period 2007 to 2013, we have € 189 million from the European budget by decision of the European Council for individual projects on national roads. I think it is insufferable to divert hundreds of millions of euros into other projects. I therefore appeal today to the Ministry's representatives not to succumb to pressure and insist on the appropriations granted, and the Government should withdraw its ideas on the reallocation of funds. It's not pink. Due to the lack of resources for the maintenance and development of state road infrastructure, the situation in some sections is catastrophic. The state road between Lower Idrija and Zirmi has been closed for all traffic for more than a month. Thus, bus traffic between the Jurassic and Idria had to be diverted to a 12 - mile [12 km] section through Logatco, which is more than 50 kilometers [50 km]. Or between Želen and Lower Idrija, where the fence has been broken for almost a year and so on. At the end of the day, there's an anecdote. This morning, I asked fellow Member Bojan Kontic if he would discuss developments today. "No. I'm not going to argue," he said, "I don't do science fiction." I'm home from Idria. There, 130 years ago, writer Damir Fajgelj, the founder of Slovenian science fiction, was born. Much of what he wrote came true much later. Let us also try to realize as soon as possible that they will not become part of Slovenian science fiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I am dealing with this science fiction, given that I am constantly reminding you that these placements should be accelerated in this mandate as well, even in the previous mandate I have done so, and that a law should be adopted as soon as possible to allow this to be accelerated. But procedurally, because I'd like a colleague of Bevek, whom I respect, to be aware of something we've been in this mess for a long time. The laws of the National Assembly are put into the procedure by Members, the Government, in particular Members, the State Council and so on. This law has been tabled by a group of MPs from the SDS Group, not from the coalition. I would like to advise you that we are only using those authors who are actually authors, but I am not ashamed of this law. But the law was passed by Members of the SDS Group, not by the opposition. I have repeatedly pointed out that there is no coalition in the opposition, which one does, everyone does, whether good or bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. As is the fate of every law we submit by the SDS and the opposition, condemned to rejection, to criticism, this fate will be similar, even though it is a well-meaning solution that we still need in Slovenia. The Government's excuses, including the discussions of coalition Members, are very interesting about the reasons why this law is not appropriate and why it is not feasible. That proverb also applies here, where will is also the way. But there is no will here, so the path that is clear is not visible or is not wanted to be seen. Today, the coalition also finds that they are for the coherent regional development that Slovenia needs. I agree with this, but let this also be proved in practice, but not through individual laws, as was the Main City Act, to this most powerful city, which has a budget greater than half of Slovenia, provide additional funds of EUR 15 million per year. Where these road sections are urgently needed for better development, especially the remotest places that are already beaten in one way or another, they are not allowed to develop faster. That is why I fully agree with Mr Bevek's conclusions - although I rarely agree with him, but I am here fully of this opinion that we must not allow it, but it is primarily up to you in the coalition that the Government would not accidentally dare to use the funds that we can use from the European funds to build road infrastructure to divert somewhere else. We will certainly stand by your side here, but our voice does not reach as far as it may be yours. But if we help you, we'll be stronger. As I said, the sections listed in this law are absolutely necessary and can be supplemented. And let's make this effort together and accept this proposal, complete it, and make a commitment not to be philosophical here, but going into action. Road infrastructure, especially on state roads, must certainly require more maintenance, not just new roads or new sections. In the past decade, there has been a mistake, not the previous mandate, and the previous mandate has been entirely different from that of the past, with credits that can now be returned with tolls. The vignette system you spit so hard turned out to be a good one. But we used to build on the highway budget, but we ignored state roads. That's why we have over 6,000 kilometers of state roads needed to rebuild. And although much more money has been spent in the previous mandate to maintain and build new sections of state roads, it has not been possible to do so, and we will all now have to look for resources intensively together, and in particular we will have the will to build these sections. Certain regions, as I said, have been neglected and are still, for example, Dolenjska, White Krajina. Thank God we will come, at least I hope, this year, to complete the highway, despite the fact that this region is one of the economically stronger and is road, including rail, but especially road infrastructure of key importance for its further development. There is a Revoz factory in New Town, as well as Adria. Revoz factory according to the data known, daily more than 500 trucks for importing material and especially for the transport of cars, daily to the center of New Town, where there is already very large traffic going through the city itself. We know that Novo Mesto is, by its geographical location and also by its traffic arrangements from the past centuries, a city that does not allow those existing links to expand. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to build not only one railing, but, two bypasses, the eastern, the western one, which connect to the rim. This is a road infrastructure that is of regional importance, if I do not say even state infrastructure, but regional infrastructure. Thousands of vehicles migrate daily from neighboring congregations, from one part of Dolenjska, to another part of the White Land as they drive to work, during these critical times of the morning, even in the afternoon. Now we see, in fact, that it's almost all day when we're facing such traffic eclipses that it's hard to get anywhere at all. And that is why we, as proponents, have assessed that it would be imperative that this bypass, Western and Eastern, which we will someday connect to the ring, be dealt with as a priority. Especially since the third development axis, which is here, thank God, also thanks to the Belarusian municipalities that have reached some consensus, is about to be plotted to place one of these districts in this corridor of the third development axis. That is why I think it would make sense, absolutely necessary, and above all, you will be grateful to all those who face these problems from day to day, to go in support of this law to supplement it, and to make all those sections a priority building. But here I have mentioned only Lower or New Town, which is of regional importance and I know it best and I feel it. I hope there will be will, although, as you predict, there will be no, we will have to come back with such laws, and we may be able to convince you sometime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. The content of the law is also somehow followed by the construction of railways, so that priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia would also be built after this bill by making a framework by 2020 of development axes, by 2030 some other directions, and then by regulation the government will also set up funds for the construction of these sections. Once again, everything is fine and well, but the fact is that we have also recently held a debate on the Committee on Environment and Space and the Committee on Transport, because we have tried to determine how far the procedures for putting routes of development axis into space and what should be done to really put these routes into space as soon as possible, and that within the deadline set by 2013 for drawing European funds under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, there is a deadline for drawing these funds. So we have very specifically defined that we want to have all the sections placed in space by 2013 in such a way that it is possible to draw these funds. If we look at the proposal by the proposer, it is about €228 million per year should be provided during this period for the construction of these roads. This would mean that, for example, in the ten years of this 228 million euro, the need to build development axes would be sufficient. The development axes are valued at EUR 2.5 billion. Of course, this is one of those specific amounts that we have to pursue when we try to solve this problem. While the proposal did not introduce this amount into the law, it is clear that if 0.6% of the gross social product were to be allocated both to the development axes and to the other priority sections listed here, it is very clear that we will have to agree whether we will be prioritising the development axes in these ten years, and the rest will wait, because the resources envisaged here per year are sufficient only to build development axes in ten years. 0.6% is too low, I mean. And that's the problem with how to prepare a roadside management program. In my opinion, it is also necessary to adopt a national programme for the modernisation and construction of other state roads, on the grounds that not every government, within each mandate, thinks in its own way which section is a priority. And the weakness of the current system is precisely because, in fact, each government specifically determines which sections are priority in Slovenia when it comes to power. That is why certain areas in Slovenia are significantly better processed, a certain lower quality, and some just enough to know that they are, but something is happening. And this is a key sin, or the desire to act so far in the area of building and modernising state roads. If we adopt a resolution on the national programme for the construction and maintenance of other state roads, this document is binding again. Of course, any government that comes into power must respect this document, which is long-term and binding, if it does not want to respect it and must change it. Again, it is important for Parliament to have an impact on which priority sections will indeed be based on these criteria, which we perceive earlier and to what extent. This is therefore the task of Parliament, which it always has when we adopt a resolution on national programmes. This law again somehow legitimizes this very situation that we already have today. It will indicate some sections, but how, when a section comes in line, it will be left to the Government, which will decide by regulation, which section will be the priority in what period and how much funding it will make available for it. Therefore, the same failure of this law in roads and railways is that it excludes Parliament from the procedure and leaves all decision-making to the Government. This, once again, is not appropriate in my view, but it is the Parliament that must take strategic decisions, especially if these decisions are worth several billion euros. If we are talking about all of these sections listed, it would certainly be necessary to provide at least one such amount for other state roads in addition to two and a half billion for the development axes. And these are such serious numbers, which in my opinion must by no means pass through Parliament. It is not possible to draw attention to these matters when dealing with this law that I have warned of. Even if this law had been adopted, nothing would actually have been set up yet. Once again, the government would be given certain powers that go beyond its power to decide on billions of amounts itself, to adopt regulations that are not covered by legislation. And this is what would have happened sooner or earlier, or the repeal of the regulations, and thus the failure to implement this law. And if a few days can be implemented, then I think it is better not to accept such a document. The fact is that Slovenia, as a result of the world situation, is in such a state that gross social product has fallen during this period. If we make a comparison with the previous mandate, when gross social product has grown steadily, it would be very important if it was already decided to build motorways on the credit system, then it would be very important when this gross social product grew, that a national programme for the construction and modernisation of old state roads was adopted in the previous mandate. At that time, it was a much more beautiful and better opportunity for this document to be adopted, than today, when this gross social product is extremely weighed, and when we actually need to take measures to stabilise the financial market and, in fact, to reduce the debt in Slovenia. If we look at the package of this legislation, and if we look at the discussions we are hearing about Slovenia's indebtedness, then respected colleagues, something is not going on here. It is not possible to talk once about the fact that the State's debt is too high, and secondly, we have a law that requires 0.6 gross social product for public roads, 0.9 for railways. Where'd that come from? If this were in the mandate when GDP was on the rise, I would still understand that this can be done. In these situations, in these circumstances, it is significantly more difficult. Therefore, much more effort will have to be made than has been made in this law to try to find solutions, with what resources, in particular within a period of four five years, to build those key sections that eliminate at least those bottlenecks and those of the greatest limits that individual regions that are not on highways are cut off from traffic flows. This is the period at which, in my view, we should really concentrate and find solutions to address the bottlenecks that cause the most difficulties in accessing the regions to the highway network as a matter of priority. I also need to re-emphasize the change in the toll system on motorways on this issue. There is no reason, or especially, for us to be able to approach the construction of development axes and the modernisation of other state roads effectively should not change the tolling system to the vignette system. Why do areas without motorways today pay the same for highways as those with motorways? Why do all places along the development axes for which there are no resources pay the same for motorways as those on the highway? That's not supposed to happen. The toll system should already be established in the previous term as a closed toll system in free circulation, each paying as much as it transports kilometres along the highway. And in this case, we would also have an additional resource to accelerate the construction of development axes. The adoption of the vinjet system made this impossible. And the greatest consequences of the vinjet system we feel are places where there is no highway. And that's one of those mistakes that's irreparable. This money can never be collected again, which could have been picked up by going to tolling in the free traffic flow through the system of a mile [km] transported. And that could have happened in the previous term, especially if the microwave system were simply upgraded. But no, because whoever built this system wasn't the ruling coalition by the year and had to change the toll system for 100%. These are the consequences that are truly irreparable and irreparable especially in times of economic and financial crisis. Therefore, resources for the construction of these development axes will need to be genuinely sought outside the budget, outside the funds or those gross social product limits. And this is what we, in the coalition, expect the government to prepare and offer us these solutions. We have concluded the debate on the Environment Committee and the space to consider the possibility of putting development axes in space as quickly as possible. The next phase, I think we all agree, is that we talk about when these sections are placed in a place to finance it, to get to the resources. And then the resources will be determined. This is our, I hope, even after what I understand here, it's probably a common wish. However, the desire is much more difficult than simply writing down: 0.6 gross social product and we go to each other. I'm afraid that won't work. Therefore, this law is also unrealistic and cannot be supported in such a content.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you. Dr. Verlich made a statement as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. After all this discussion we are listening to, I have one problem: the law is substantively good - the content has not been touched, article 2 of the law - the definition of priority sections of public roads was not to feel opposition. All that is wrong is that we put priority sections in the legal text and become the legal obligation of this country to implement these projects. And that's the difference. I listened to the position of the SD Group. Only formally, because the Public Roads Act says that a national programme must be written in order to create a priority, that this must be in the form of a resolution in the national programme. Yeah, who's gonna pass the Public Road Act?Oh, my God! The National Assembly. Simply, we could simply change the Law on Public Roads, if this is the biggest problem, and say that this can be adopted by a resolution. As motioners, we've told you why this law is. This law is because with these sections, with these priority sections we set up projects, we define sections which under this law are considered to be building for public benefit, which is extremely important for the Republic of Slovenia. Earlier, Mr Bevk had said that these sections, these development axes, must be part of the exit strategy. Okay, but they could be part of the marriage. I don't think we're that far away, because we agree on the content - it was my feeling. I think we're in the middle of a previous marriage. I have not heard that, for example, the newly defined fifth development axis, which runs from Unca to Žlebič, would be bad. I don't think anyone said. Why would she be bad, she can't be bad, because the logical continuation of the fourth development axis from Logatco is to get to the highway. I don't know what kind of studies we need here, what kind of placements if we actually know that Unec - Žlebič is the link between the interior region. We connect two parts of the highway: the coastway and then forward when we get to Kočev and tie Dolenjska. And these are the logical, parallel, regional corridors that serve Slovenia's internal connections. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would say exactly, but this road deserves the name of the development axis, because that's what it is. So I think that, as far as the content of the sections is concerned, we're just very close, maybe there's another section to look at, something else to add, maybe something else to change. However, if the only reason why this should be written is to be in the national programme, because this is what the Law on Public Roads states, see, the Law on Public Roads can be amended tomorrow and added to the fact that, in addition to the national programme, there must be an appropriate law. Why not? Why should this law not, in fact, be the basis of a national programme? In order for the National Assembly to go the other way to say, in the National Assembly, we have decided on priority sections and the national programme must, as a result of this law, which is of paramount importance to the Republic of Slovenia, define these sections as priority sections. Okay, now it's at first reading. That's our proposal. Others may be identified. I don't think anyone in the hall said that, say, the fifth development of the axles from Unz to Žlebič was not appropriate, nor did I hear that our proposal for an obstetric development axis would be bad. Maybe he's out of his mind that we just let him go. That's why we're here to put these axes in place. And now, if it's obvious to the law that funding sources are not specifically defined. Our proposal is that the government prepare this for greater operationality. However, due to greater operationality, we have set that minimum limit of 0.6% of GDP. But we also wrote the least. So there can be more and more in the budget, which is welcome, but there has to be a lower limit. Mr Weber said well earlier that for railways there is already more than 0.9% of GDP. Very good. The law has to set some boundaries. It must tell which are the priority sections, the minimum budgetary resource. I think that's right, because then it's one money that we can count on in the planning of roads, of course, with the other resources that the law provides for here. However, if the fear of the proposer that the National Assembly should have an even greater influence here, then all these articles can be amended, corrected and given to the National Assembly by the next reading. Personally, I think that marriage is worth considering and worth supporting and allowing it to come to what is ultimately our goal: quality infrastructure. I don't know why it's so scary to write, what sections are the priorities in this country and put them in law. I don't understand this fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. We already have a third package of transport legislation proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Perhaps the suggestions are still flawed at some point, but I wonder where the better government is. The set of measures written by the Government more than a year after the start of the crisis in Slovenia is shocking, raising tax rates and so on. And how it says it. So the ministers jumped in each other's hair, each one defending his own property. It would certainly suggest adopting the proposed laws, which we will decide on Tuesday, and to amend them in the next stages of the decision-making process. It's an important part of the law. How can we imagine economic growth, a super-modern enterprise linking products with high added value, while in the middle of logistics would take place after August. Mr Bevk, from you to us is 60 kilometers away from the air, there was a cluster of metal processing industries for the automotive industry. The very promising companies were there. These 60 kilometers in these winter conditions are transported within 6 to 8 hours. Find me a transport company that will give me a heavy truck, a super-modern truck on the road, to make it 60 kilometers in six hours, during one shift. He doesn't deserve any fuel or salt. It is difficult to imagine good economic development without good transport connections. Industrial development centres, clustering can only take place if there is a good transport link between them. We've also talked about tolling today. During this week, I was at the ceremony on the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz in Poland, where the bus stood in line to pay the toll. I've had it for two years. Ever since we've had the wine, I've been driving fluently. I am also encouraged by the fact that we have also come through financially well, the financial impact has been even greater since we have the vines. Yeah, well, then why do we have to discuss them so much? When Galileo does, and I don't know what else, we're just going to switch to an electronic toll system, maybe not an ultra-fast, but an effective one. It is therefore necessary to build these development axes in a step-by-step manner. European funds are also foreseen for these development axes. The use of European funds is expected to increase in 2011 and 2012. The perspective was adopted in 2007, and documentation was being prepared in 2008 and the first works of construction were expected to start in 2009 either on roads, railways and all those areas for which European funds are available. The project will end in 2013, and the project is half-started and will not be extended until 2014 and 2015. European funds are therefore also at risk. Where the product will bring a large value added where it will be financed, it is worth the debt to the neck. For those things where we throw money out the window, it's a waste of time, money and our financial ratings. So, let's deal in this house! If the government does not have its own proposal, at least our amendments and I will escort it to such a level that it is acceptable. Slovenia can no longer afford our generation or future to step in. Europe will not see us as a grey transport fox to travel through Slovenia for as long as five times the country's traffic barriers. How, for example, can an industrial center live somewhere in Primorska? How do they get the goods from Germany? They'll be quick in Kranj, then what? Then again all day long on the narrow streets of Škofje Loka and across Kladja and I don't know where yet. Not to mention those sides, and even the road shakes for a few million worth of goods because we don't know each other and we can't deal with something basic that our country needs, which is why we were elected at the final stage. If the government does nothing of its own, then in the opposition, we will be making proposals over and over again that can be bad, but they will be the best those moments, because there are no others.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members, fellow Members. I listened attentively to today's presentation, as well as to the debate on the transport legislation package tabled by the biggest opposition SDS party. I must say that, as far as the objectives enshrined in the law are concerned, I do not think there is a Member or Member in this Chamber who would disagree with these objectives. However, in what way you have tackled this issue, I think it is wrong from a legal point of view. I know that you have, I will say, sufficient legal knowledge and that you know for yourself that these matters are regulated in national programmes and not by specific law, because it is so defined in the Law on Public Roads. If you want this to be regulated in a different way, the Law on Public Roads should first be amended. And you won't believe it. For the state road network, the national programme was ready by the end of the 2004 term. From 2004 to 2008, he did not enter the parliamentary procedure and it would be good. I agree with the debates of many Members and Members that the topic is so important that it is necessary to take time to set the right priorities for the state road network as well. Slovenia is nicely entangled through the fifth or tenth motorway corridor in the motorway traffic flows of Europe, but unfortunately we have not taken the next step. We have not placed ourselves in space and built developmental axes, and this has also enabled places that do not lie on the highway network to develop evenly. We will be able to do so if we adopt a quality document in this area. And I expect the Slovenian Government to be prepared with this national programme, which was prepared in 2004, you, Mr Verlic, know exactly that the end of the 2004 mandate has been prepared, that the national programme has not been coordinated with the Ministry of Finance and that adequate financial resources have not been provided. But nothing has happened in this area since then. I expect that the national programme will soon be in the process that the national programme will not only set priority road sections but also a time-table, especially a financial source. However, I am afraid, for all that we want to build, all that is necessary, I agree with you, both in the field of priority sections on the railway and on the state road network, it will be difficult to provide adequate financial resources. We are slowly running out of European funds. If you look only at the operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure, which weighs about 100 and ninety million euros, which road sections of the state road are listed there, then you see that that operational programme is also not in line with what should be a priority on the state road network. I was pleased that we had held a very broad debate on the development axes some time ago at the Transport Committee's joint meeting and also the Environment Committee, as well as the relevant conclusions. I will be even more pleased if these conclusions are implemented as soon as possible, so that an appropriate legal basis will be adopted, with which we can place the development axis more quickly into space, of course, that resources will also be provided on the basis of the adopted national programme, that we can also build development axes in the coming years with the help of European money, state budget money and possibly, if possible, include private capital or public-private partnership in this area. Although I fear that the best years for the public private partnership in the field of road transport have been missed, I think it was the right moment when we decided how to build a highway system in this country. What I'd like to stress further is the developmental axes, there's only one more thing. I'm coming from the Sulphur area. There was much to be said about the development axis that was supposed to go or connect Savlje to the highway network. In previous years, two studies have been made. One was funded by European money, worked by Omega Consulting, which, on the basis of environmental, transport, economic, construction and development criteria, defined the most appropriate route across Zasavje. We are talking about the third development axis from the Austrian border to the Croatian border. You will not believe, after one year, on the basis of, I do not know what initiatives a new study has taken, which is based on the same criteria - but one that has not been taken into account, this is a developmental one - defined as the optimal variant of the development axis in this central part of the central corridor, which goes from Celje through the Laško Bridge beyond the Wall towards Posavje or then towards the Dolenjska or White Krajina. What we also expected from the previous government is that both studies on the table and once again make a comparison of all variants and finally determine the most optimal option and start putting it into space. I hope that after she's placed in a room, we can start building as soon as possible. But nothing happened. I hope that this will now happen as soon as possible and that we will place this route in space and that Zasavje will also receive one modern road connection, a third development axis, to enable some even development in Zasavje. If there were real priorities in this country, I tell you that what is in the suture space would not have happened in this country. We have the main road of the second class from Hrastnik to the Wall Bridge, which is one-way. This is the only one-way main road in this country and is a disgrace to the entire state road network, especially to all those who in some way decide or make decisions on individual investments. I have been warning this thing all these years since I am in the Slovenian Parliament. I hope that the State Spatial Plan will be adopted in 2011 and that this section of the main road of the second class from Hrastnik to the Wall Bridge will begin to be built and that the Zasavska space will open both against Posavje and against the Celje region. I'm saying it again. I listened carefully to this debate. I do not challenge the good intentions or goals that you have written down in your explanation. But I'm contradicting the way you were going to get it through the procedure. What is the basic flaw in this law is that there are no financial consequences in this law. It used to be in this House if the financial consequences were not assessed, then we did not deal with such legal acts. That's what happened. And I hope that's how it's gonna be in the future. Above all, I would like to build on the national programme for the state road network, which was ready to be adopted in Parliament and that we start implementing it in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has become clear from the debate that the Government considers it, but it also has a legitimate reason for not being able to regulate something with the law, which is in place in substance. If a national programme is primarily important for the construction of priority roads, there is likely to be a more appropriate methodology for what is required by this law. There is no reason not to listen to the government in this argument about the bill. In doing so, I would like to acknowledge to the biggest opposition party that, with the proposals she has put forward today in the National Assembly, she has once again encouraged another substantive debate. What these laws say, I think we all sign peacefully. What you pointed out today is a fact. I also believe that without the effective intervention of the State or Government in the faster development of road links, there will be no cohesive Slovenia, no country that will be functionally linked. And also the cases you're referring to are those that I'm coming from Primorska, I'm quite familiar with, and I'd like to join in with a lot of them. When I say that this is an opportunity for reflection and for more effective action by the Government, I would like to draw attention to some important sections without which regional development in some parts of Primorska will not be. When I travel from Ljubljana to Illyrian Bistrica and forward to Croatia, I run into Jelshana in Klana on the highway, we wonder which of the two neighbouring countries is more European. According to the roads, Croatia is to start Europe in Croatia. To start a nice highway there, we are on the river from Jelšan in ten minutes, while traveling from Jelšan to Postojna, we are aware that we are still traveling in the former Yugoslavia. We must be aware of this because the people, the people of the Bistrician region, expect the government's attention. For years and years, the yoke of the snake is drawn on the inefficiency and slow action of the Government and the planning of those roads that should be of national importance. First, because of the development factors from Postojna to Jelšan. With suitable roads, we will in fact offer that area an opportunity for faster development. Secondly, since we would finally start implementing a project that is not only national but also European project to connect Slovenia with the Ionian Adriatic Highway and also open Slovenia's access, faster access to interesting markets in the south of the Balkans to Albania, Montenegro, Greece, etc. The second shame we experience is secondary roads, which are still important in connection and along borders, such as the road that crosses the border in Sočerga and connects the Cyprus area with Buzet. Why is this road important to us? For years this road has been closed for certain trucks because it is not qualified, it is not infrastructure-friendly for the safe driving of such trucks carrying goods from Buzet to Koper. But this treasure serves Slovenian company Cimosa, which has 60% of Cimosa's property in Buzet and is now forced to use a significantly longer road to connect with Kopro. The locals have been waiting for a solution for some time. This solution does not depend solely on the transport sector, it is a number of chain connections, the internal ministry and so on, because there is a border, we are aware of that. But I want to take this opportunity to be a new stimulus in this direction. The Idria-Logatec section, there was a lot of talk. I think it's a priority to connect Idria with the rest of Slovenia, because this road is becoming dangerous, unreliable. Also, let's not forget the Posačje. The road that goes up by Soča and connects Goriška with Tolmin, Kobarid, Bovec is dangerous. It is becoming dangerous and must also be identified as one of the priorities. I join this call, which is prepared in the form of two laws, railways and roads. I think it is also appropriate, because the opposition in this way, in a constructive way, warns the Government and the coalition majority that there is a need to move on with these priorities seriously. And this part of the message, let's say, is grateful and I support it. However, I also understand the Government's arguments, as well as what we have heard, that the methodology for implementing such legitimate initiatives is somewhat different. And it may be more effective if it is based on a national programme which is likely to be more justified from an operational point of view, including by law. So I welcome this debate. At the same time, of course, I do not support this methodology and these laws. I think that the Government will, however, take action and also take action on the basis of this debate and respond effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Good-bye to all of you. I think we should be extremely grateful for some of the contributions made by the honourable Members of the SD Group, who have given us an excellent starting point to respond to some of the fat lies that are circulating in Slovenia at this time and reported completely uncritically about them. The honourable Member of the SD spoke about the wine system in a broad and long way. He told three fat lies, I'm sorry, because we know that now that someone in the coalition is telling a fat lie, the president comes along and says, "It's just a mistake." So he made a mistake after the president. The first mistake after the president was when he said that because of the vignette system there was now a problem with road construction. With the vignette system, the system, as our coalition has introduced, has raised more money, even more than was planned, significantly more, to tens of millions more. That's what they say. It's a big mistake after the president, and he's hiding something else. Why is he in a hurry to shut down the vignette system, and why is it distorted? It was distorted because everyone I spoke to in Europe, it is said at the headquarters of the European Union, in the services they know to say that when we introduced vineyards, comrades from Slovenia were calling their left-wing comrades in the EU institutions to a great extent, if you are against it, it can't be because of this and that's why. In order not to tell you now what was going on, the gentlemen had to kneel down and agree that the prices of vignettes had risen dramatically and that this made the Slovenian population significantly burdened and burdened the foreigners, who were already in a privileged position, because the Slovenian speciality is that highways were built from taxpayers' money. This is forgotten, and it would be more fair to maintain a system that is more favourable for citizens and citizens. Why is he shutting it down? Because some who were previously the only exclusive suppliers of equipment were no longer "at the trough" and should be left behind. This makes the following big mistake after the president when it says, "Yeah, it's about collecting highway money." Yes, the vignette system is like that, but what you're talking about is collecting money in progress, ladies and gentlemen, and given everything you could understand from the materials already presented, it means that it will be paid to drive on any road. And people don't know that, and it's only right to find out. Picking up from the satellite means that when you're out of the yard, you'll be paying tolls, not just for a freeway ride. And then it will be the end of the joy of all those who think they will profit in this way. And the third major mistake after the president, I say that even the far largest and the most fatal of all is when he shuts up about what was the best effect of the vignette system. Not only savings for Slovenian citizens and citizens, but mainly that we were driving significantly safer. Cheap vineyards have dragged a huge part of traffic from local and regional roads onto motorways. Traffic has run much faster and, most importantly, is significantly safer. As a result, last year the results were more favourable when it comes to road safety. And then we're listening to the government's nebulosis, and you're saying that some minister is responsible for it by her own actions. No, ladies and gentlemen, now this is going to get worse because you've ruined the vignette system, which is now more expensive and probably more people are going back to regional and local roads, and highways will be more avoided. That's the first part of that story. And when you go on direct payments, we all know what that means. This means that more people will go in the first phase in a way that will be avoided. But when you toll everything, people will just hold on to their heads, and only then will they understand what this story was really about. So much for the vinjet and the vinjet system. Even in this story, you've ruined one great thing and turned gold into mud, which makes this coalition a fantastic success. However, I am also grateful to the SD gentleman who said that their leader of the parliamentary group said he would not deal with these proposals because he is not engaged, I quote, "with science fiction". Now let's see what this science fiction is like on a specific case. On two concrete occasions, it will be clear what the current policy is really about. Among those already defined in the resolution of the national development programmes, we add in Article 2 of this Act, among other things, the link between Kranj-Jezersko and Austria. It is therefore a road that connects this whole part of the region of Gorenje and is also of national importance, since it actually connects through Austrian territory. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are in Schengen. The border's gone. It also links this part very well with that part of Koroška, from which, you know, some Members are also, the case is my colleague Miro Petek, who is now driving across Jezerska and along this road to Ljubljana, because this connection is the most beautiful, best and in many cases the fastest. It is therefore a road connecting the Slovenian people, across the Austrian border, and with those who are behind the Austrian border, because Slovenia's Koroška now has an open border and this link does not only mean development opportunities, it is about the development of tourism, everything that this region overcomes, but it is also about integration at the national level, which is of strategic importance for the future. And another such road that touches the project again, which is of national importance, is the connection to Dr. Jožet Pučnik's airport. That's where the current connection is inappropriate. In one case you have in the middle of the road, instead of standing there a beautiful new circle, some plastic obstacles. And this is also covered in this proposal. But why, ladies and gentlemen, are we even talking about these two cases?Oh, my God! Why is someone taking the right and declaring it a science fiction from the coalition?Oh, my God! It is two cases, ladies and gentlemen, where all spatial acts have already been adopted, where land purchases have already taken place, but this coalition has taken the right to throw this out of the programmes already adopted and to place them there for 2014 to 2017, if memory does not deceive me, as it says in the case of the Hotemaže-Britof road, which is an integral part of the link between Kranje and Jezerski, or at least for two years has stalled them, as in the case of that circle that brings 2,000 people from the industrial zone in Shenchure to the main road of the region, in the connection between the airport of Dr Jožet Pučnik and the highway. You did it! And even though you know it's a section where the highest number of deaths among children is a mile along the road. The safety of people means nothing to you. And why did you do that?Oh, my God! In fact, these two sections represent the minimum resources in terms of the state budget, and you have everything on your hands. Yes, of course, the local elections are coming, because it's clear why you did it. Because you've suspended everything for the local elections because you're counting on cashing it out on them. I guarantee you this logic is very flawed. Twice. First of all, you're gonna lose the local elections in that area, and you're gonna lose this "fayest" thing, I personally guarantee you. And most importantly, you put people at risk, not only those who live there, but also all those who travel through these road connections, walk on them, cycle. That's what you did with it. It is a matter of things which, in a global way, are negligible, the whole sum, if I were to sum it all up, I think it is one 8 million euro. What this means in the billions of amounts of the Slovenian state budget - it does not make sense to stress. What does that mean when compared to borrowing?Oh, my God! In one year you owe this poor Slovenia EUR 6.3 billion, which is 12.6 billion former brands or more than half of what was once the entire debt of the former Yugoslavia. And in one year, you didn't find any money to complete those two projects that are here that are non-problem. There is no bridge, no tunnel, nothing has to be done, only something should be done for the safety of people. But this is not in your interest because you are setting your political interest, a narrow political interest, a party political interest not only before the development interests of this area, but even before the security of people. And these rights, I'm saying no one has. You don't have this legitimacy, even if you won the election. And for this reason, when you mentioned the members of the SD's forthcoming development strategy, I claim with full responsibility that it would be the best and, I say, the only viable development strategy for the exit from the economic crisis, given your actual conduct, the early elections and your departure from power.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! There was something said today. Of course, we also received some interpretations of what lies mean, what it means, and what it means. And I'd just say that, because I'm kind of more comfortable with the lie that it was said today, even now, a few false allegations and shortcomings. The first thing I want to say is, perhaps someone here misinterpreted what the leader of the Social Democrats Group meant by "scientific fiction". I'm sure he didn't mean what some people imagine. At the very least, he meant under this proposal the Law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's right to highlight this mistake or weakness. The following incorrect indication has been made. As far as I am aware, there is no talk of a development strategy, but it is a talk about a development-oriented exit strategy. It's a third mistake. As soon as the wine system was introduced, this did not mean savings for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that my uncle, who now almost certainly looks at me, who goes once or twice a year to Ljubljana, was deprived of such a small pension at the time of the introduction of the vignette system. Do not generalize, because people who are unemployed today, unemployed or retired, with pensions or as some of my relatives say, "We have certainly not saved a pension with a small farm by introducing it." Really, and don't, we can't fool people somehow. We have to say exactly what's real, what's true, and I think it's the right thing to do. And also, I don't think there's anyone else's wish that I'd like to introduce myself in any other way. Now, it is also right that we have plans to have presented goals, including this bill, I think it is placed and, as he said, many of my colleagues and colleagues have mentioned today that, from various areas of Slovenia, we have been somewhat few, as far as roads are concerned, disadvantaged, not only now in this government, even in the previous one. Somehow we were not fortunate enough to have at least completed the projects. Even some changes are or, if I say so on the case of the third development axis, the southern part of the White Country. One year was waiting for the design to begin. And last year, this government adopted three conclusions to start preparing documentation. So much for this moment. Now, even with the goals, even in this law, which are presented, which I really like, but on the other hand, I think it is right when we propose one of the laws, especially if it is related to the financial impact or to the finances in this sense that financial resources should be provided, then I think it is right that we are realistic here. Of course, I believe that today this debate is not the task of the National Assembly to provide financial resources. The task of the government and the ministers, and the President of the government, is still a major task. On the other hand, there are some who are in the National Assembly when they discuss when they make a proposal that is possible to be supported in the White Landscape, which would be supported elsewhere in Slovenia, as colleagues have said, and I am also sure in Zasavje, Koroška and elsewhere, is closely connected with financial resources. And because these funds aren't, as my colleague Weber said, where we're going to take them. It's not a problem. But if there's no means, then we can't perform like this. We might even say, "We support all the projects, look at everything we support, we support it, we just don't know where we're going to get it." That's what I'm worried about! I'm real, and then, really, when I see our group leader there, he probably thinks it's science fiction. Yesterday there was also some discussion and I would not want to upset anyone, or has it really been well managed in recent years? As a member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I am sure that I am the one who, on this issue, I have the opportunity to have many discussions and opinions, both to cooperate and, above all, to listen to colleagues who have been here in the Assembly and in the Government in the past. And for example, here was a bit of a dilemma about the sale of state property, but yesterday there were some such hard words about whether this diligence in terms of financial efficiency was really at the maximum. So, indeed, for some reselling of shares in important state-owned companies, we have achieved the highest price or the highest possible price. Or, as one says, you explain it, you speak the source, the proportion, and so on. Better to say, did we get as much money out of this as possible? Why do we ask ourselves that? Because now we need to look ahead and really think about and explore where we will provide resources on the one hand to ensure that our people today are unemployed, people who are in real trouble living, on the other hand, also provide quality transport infrastructure, which we must continue, as has been said many times and many times today, but also to recover credits that have already been leased in the past for transport infrastructure. Therefore, perhaps for some, this proposal for a law, which I cannot now support at a given time. If you see a clear definition of the source of this and this, European funds, financial perspectives by 2013, or perhaps later, and that these matters are indeed so, I think that colleague Weber has said in such a case in the previous proposal of the law and in the present, we are facing the same problem, somehow it is not clear where this priority will be from. Somehow it's left to the government, nothing to the National Assembly. Parliament shall be excluded from this. On the other hand, this serious large number, we know that it would not be right for us to just walk out of Parliament and that this would not be discussed. Then, surely, colleagues, whether opposition or coalitions, would not agree with such decisions. I also think, let's be realistic, let's see if we have the money, if we have the funds, if we've repaid all the loans from the highway sections of the past. I am driving myself, and I can say that I have saved up with wine, and I can say that because I drive so many times, but also some of my colleagues here, regardless of whether we are in coalition or opposition, it is not important at this point. And we're really saving up if we're driving a lot along the freeways. So at this stage, at this point in time, I couldn't support this marriage and I won't support it. I am sure that if we find the right source together, and I would also like for my colleagues who are in contact with Europe, that all those who are within Europe anywhere and have the opportunity to help us as much as possible to get the money, not only will the Dolenska Strak finish what will be done in order for the third development axis to work both in the White Country and in all the other development axes and that they will all be satisfied together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	I would also like to thank the honourable Members of the SD very much for their well-founded warning. Clearly, my words could have been misunderstood. So let me repeat the thought in such a way that it is perfectly clear why it is actually going. Given that you are clearly giving priority to your narrow political party objectives in the coalition against the key strategic development projects of the country of Slovenia and even the security of people as fundamental values, the only reasonable and feasible, is a realistic exit strategy with a developmental orientation for a way out of the crisis, as soon as possible the call for elections and your departure from power.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Jozko Godec have the word? He's not here. Mr Grims had the right to a replica, because we all understood that, Mrs Renata Brunskole, with it, the re-replication was not possible. Mrs. Eva Irgle. She won't discuss it. Instead of Silva Črnugelj, Miroslav Klun was accidentally written down and I give the floor to Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, let me make it very clear that, of course, I will not support the law. Because the law of all the debates so far is not good. But I think it is good in this law that the law has released the creativity and creativity of some Members who feel the pain of all these decades, that in short summary they have done one historical review of the transport policy in Slovenia, the pain of all those forgotten parts of Slovenia, the pain of the forgotten Slovenia and those of Slovenia and where the time machine has stopped. Let me tell you, Slovenia, centres, great centres of power and those who have developed the most, among other things, Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper and Nova Gorica, have forgotten that there is a White Landscape, Metlika, that there is a Hrastnik, that there is a Kočevje, that roads need to be maintained, and that regular, continuous care must be taken to update the plans, because science goes on. Those who like to read science fiction and read it regularly, you know that science fiction is actually living today. We live something that was, say, 15 years ago, written as something impossible, and that is what we are living today. I think that science fiction can come true, just not like that, you could say, with disabled-written laws. And I believe and I hope that we will be able, as colleagues Ziherl has said, to have so much in common power and energy that we together will be able to resolve this transport and other policy, which is so important for the start-up of all other sectors in Slovenia. The Law on Public Roads is a prerequisite for the implementation of this law and those who are supposed to teach and teach everyone else how important it is to have the Law on Public Roads and the National Resolution and the National Programme, probably when drafting this so important law, which they claim is so important, they would probably know that the Law on Public Roads needs to be amended. Someone said here what we're going to change tomorrow. We know that the procedure in the National Assembly does not allow this and why we should deceive someone if we have decided to do something about it. In this area, however, we must do so because we cannot simply change that some parts of Slovenia are simply forgotten. Forgotten to fix roads, forgotten to adapt, to renovate, and I don't know what it's all about. Yes, I forgot to say, of course, that we must never forget Idria and that part of Logatec - Idrija and the renewal of this vehicle. Certainly part of Postojna in Hole was also somehow neglected and forgotten in all these periods but Slovenia must somehow develop in a balanced, very harmonious manner. And if we want to develop harmoniously, we must, however, step together and look for those real solutions that are possible and not what, from today to tomorrow just because of, I don't know, what pre-election promises and what I don't know. The pain of someone not in power, I understand, is not easy. But a mature adult needs to understand this, and he has to accept it and not always wait and expect elections to be held tomorrow because one marriage has not been adopted. There's been a lot of talk about vignettes. The vinjets were probably acquired, as colleague Renata said, very sincerely and very wickedly, especially by Members, and I, for example, am driving very much, because the vinjets actually allowed one major discrimination, as well as because such a law as was proposed today requires a higher percentage of GDP. How and in what way did the vinite system make it impossible? It was said that we imitated the vines. I don't know how? It seems that some people like to forget what was the reason for a different approach to the vinite system. And who, and in what way, were the pressures and so forth? Dear colleagues, I think if we're going to do something, we're going to have to, I mean, work a little bit on getting our memory back up. Let me say, the forgotten Slovenia is also in Koroška, because it is also problematic there, but let this time machine still open. I can say that although I am an elected Member in Ljubljana, there are also parts of Ljubljana that are simply forgotten in this road regime and that time machines have remained at the level of 1960 and there are few of them. There is also transport, transport and so on, among other things the Stock. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Today, it is not the purpose of this law to talk about vineyards. But this debate about vignettes always opens, and always, for the hundredths, bars and feet, it will be necessary to listen to how it sucks. Before the elections in the National Assembly you did not go to the elections and say: Our first task, immediately if we win the elections, is to end the vineyards and establish an existing toll system. You didn't say that! You didn't say because I remember very well the Del poll, which said that 70% of SD voters support the introduction of vignettes. And don't say guilt is bad. The guilt is good! Because we probably all forgot together what it was like when we had to wait at the toll station at Kozina 5, 6 hours - remember - how we watched the Red Cross, which drove water for that, because foreigners waited for them to come, not to the Slovenian sea, but forward to Croatia. With all this, that's one beautiful demagogy. The highways have relaxed, traffic has gone where it has to go, and toll stations, which we forget how much new toll stations would cost, their new construction. The short effect, when we got the vines and when the free traffic flow really became free, is more than good. But now to speak, and now to stand up for the "poor people" who have been harmed because they have paid dearly for the vineyard. It's true, they paid 55 euros a year at the time, and now they're paying 95 euros for it. That's right, I have to say, a real contribution. And this marriage doesn't talk about vignettes, but we keep touching them. But of course, it speaks of the 3rd development axis, which will be built in one part against Koroška as a fast road, and this will be tolled. But I hope they're guilty that they won't be just a mile away, because otherwise we'll be driving on the side roads. Let's start talking about what was good and what was good. The blames have certainly been a measure that has contributed to the transport policy of this country and to the flow of transport and has contributed very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, he won't discuss it. Mr. Franz Jursha, he won't discuss it. Mr. Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Following the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, we somehow combined this Friday afternoon with a useful one. Above all, we, Members and Members of Parliament, are bound by a direct responsibility to the state of security on Slovenian roads. Let us recall some analyses of events, accidents that have been quite severe and have also resulted in human life. At that time, the debate also opened up in this direction that there are many causes for traffic accidents with severe consequences due to poor roads. And again and again on this subject, when we ask ourselves for reasons that road safety is not good, he somehow tries to hide that we are not talking about the bad state of the road for serious traffic accidents. This also led to the proposal for a priority construction of some road sections. It is true that we are all politicians in this House and that we are here to discuss politically, but not least we are the majority, almost all of us, including drivers and drivers. And through the prism of road safety, we should also be aware that we are addressing such important content as to somehow distance this political background and some of our individual or group political interests. It's not that much political interest. These are specific matters, the regulation of Slovenian roads, which is quoted by the applicant in taxi by priority relations in order to ensure greater road safety in the Republic of Slovenia. And when they debated colleagues and colleagues from different places, either about Primorska, Postojna, about the road to the sea, by which many of us drove when we went to the Adriatic Sea. What if we go for a ride today? What do we find out? That something essential hasn't changed. Let's have some Southnostalgia. And as one of the colleagues correctly realized, because not long after I drove right after this section from Postojna to Croatia, I got the feeling that you were more in Europe when you came to the Croatian side than when you were on the Slovenian side. This is exactly what we propose and want to see, as we also see directly at the visit of the parliamentary group to the Republic of Slovenia. The obvious, because you had a chance the last four years, why you didn't do it. Some things were set up in the previous government. I think it was there with some document in 2006 and also rebuilt in 2008 in January. That means it's not true that nothing was done. We have even adopted certain funds, which have been deliberately taken from some other sources, to provide funding for these very roads that we are proposing here today. It is not possible to ignore the fact that a few thousand euros was guaranteed when we decided again and said that it is good to ensure that these roads are regulated, which have some priority. Will it happen to us again when we're talking about vignettes, because you're not guilty of something permanent? We were when we discussed what we had to do, because we had to do something. The government came with a document, and it prevailed over the knowledge that for a transitional period, it is best to introduce a vignette system. And that's what we used. It is not true that some analyses have not been carried out and it is not true that this has not improved the state of security in the Republic of Slovenia. Because we're always trying to bring some other interest to safety, which it doesn't, and I'll never agree with it. In the first place, whenever we are talking about providing state resources, it is important to point out security on Slovenian roads. And a second time. When we ask ourselves, yes, it's nice to write something, but don't tell me where to get it. Here. But we didn't suggest that we start building this tomorrow because we know it's not possible. But in Article 8, we described exactly the sources of funding. If we look at a proposaler who at the beginning of the law finds a comparison of how they do it in other EU Member States, we might find that funding models are quite different. And we're not just tied to one source of funding. We offer more options in Article 8. And when we identify ourselves to what would be the best source in the current situation, the most appropriate, the fastest, this is confirmed by the Government by an appropriate order and determined how to finance road sections in accordance with Article 8 first paragraph, as proposed. I therefore stress this once again, and I will point out this over and over again when we talk about either aviation, rail, road, maritime, river or other transport, basic infrastructure, well-managed basic infrastructure, in this case road infrastructure, is a fundamental condition for ensuring greater security. And let this guide follow us in the context of substantive discussions when we consider similar substantive proposals for laws, as we are dealing with today, when we are talking about the law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. If we looked at the history of some road section planners, we would be surprised when we came in from 150 or more years ago, when someone had already planned the necessary route and found that the route was the most optimal. And if we could use some resources, we would quickly find that some of the planners, in fact, 150 years ago, had extremely well-founded reasons for having some of the road sections planned where we actually find ourselves today. And when we talk about developmental axes, we're actually interfering with this time period of planners who were planning roads at the time. When we look around the Republic of Slovenia, we can really see that some of the road sections, like the railways, are also from the times of Franz Joseph and Mary Teresa, only that we have broken some of that black asphalt on some sections. Now there are holes, holes in the hole that are covered with some new mixture of bitumen and grammatical matter. This does not provide sufficient security, which we should always talk about when we talk about these content in the first place. Everything else comes not least from our individual or group political interests. At the same time, we forget that road safety should be put first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I think it's kind of a sad day in the National Assembly today. For the government representatives, who are at the individual agenda items, shall sit for three or four hours without answering at all. What they're hearing, they could read from the magnetograms, and they could do anything else. Clearly, the only problem is that they have sufficient formality to have the government present. But there's nothing to do. There are no proposals, no discussions, nothing. I think that this is actually a general reflection in this mandate when government representatives come to the meeting of the National Assembly to meet the formalities, they say they are present, and they do not discuss, argue their views, their proposals and so on. At this point, we are talking about one of the more important topics, the development of Slovenia, the future development of Slovenia, and a similar story, the same story. If I go back to the debates. Many of you know the famous Great Mao Handbook, where he said that things need to be bogged down enough to make people feel disgusting. To remove those who have nothing to say about such things. And the debates in the National Assembly are actually going on in the same way today: to banalise, to devalue the proposals made by the biggest opposition party of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so as to oppose the people. That's not true. The proposal that we have tabled is consistent with all the criteria, dear colleagues. If the proposal did not meet the formal legal conditions, if the proposal did not comply with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the National Assembly would not have assigned it to the hearing and would have rejected it as many other proposals that we must correct before putting them into further proceedings and proceedings. To all those who have discussed today what should have been to be, so much so as to know, because this proposal today would not have been at this meeting of the National Assembly. Similarly, in a modest and in some way poor is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this law, which fully refers to the fact that the law in question should not be in the concept of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, so that it should not be fulfilled and should not be considered in an inappropriate manner to regulate this matter and so on. None of this holds. None of this is true! This law is in accordance with the legal order and has all the mandatory ingredients. So by purpose, by purpose, by financial consequences and also by dynamics. What you're objecting to. Unfortunately, there are reasons why you oppose the solutions that we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the political nature, not the substantive, not the technical, not the legal, but the political nature. And that political nature is also good to read in the manual of the great Mao, how to approach projects to completely evaluate them. And I believe you know some of these things very well. When we are talking about a specific project of the state network, which should be regulated, these black lines are in the picture, these are sections which are written in this law, which are evaluated in this law and for which priority construction is envisaged. These are sections that open up all those areas that we consider to be demographically threatened, for less perspective areas, for restricted areas, for areas that need to be addressed by a law on coherent regional development and so on. This is the content and purpose of this law - consistent regional development. We have heard many times in this Chamber of the National Assembly, including in this mandate, that the transport link, the accessible transport link, is in fact the foundation of any development, the foundation of any development. Whether it's a road or a railway connection. And it is surprising to me that those who at this declaration level have so much to say about coherent regional development, which you support even some specific laws that would open up areas and also write there, I don't know, the third development axis and that Belarusian road to the highway, would certainly write it in there, because otherwise the law on coherent regional development has no value, no weight. That's where it would go if it was written like that. Under such a proposal from the Belarusian mayors, the Lady of Social Democrats also signed that a separate approach should be taken and that transport connections should also be addressed as a matter of priority. She even signed. However, when we put this part in a system law that solves the problems of other restricted areas in addition to the Belarusian problems, there are 1,000 reasons why it is against. Veneto [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	Tanko, I would ask you to try to argue why you're proposing a law, not to emilemise and not to say what an individual Member or Member of Parliament has said in some other cases. [[...]] This is unkind and not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Mr Vice-President, I am talking about a general debate. And I suppose I am not the only messenger to depart from what many have spoken before me. We are talking about priority sections of state roads, colleagues were talking about the vignette system, highways, similar things and similar stories. I have limited myself to areas with limited factors, and I have also given a concrete example, including this Belarusian case is very specific, for which a colleague proposes that this problem of the Belarusian area be addressed by special law. However, when we incorporate this into a somewhat broader law and also process other areas with limited factors, the problem is how much Austria pays for the vignette to Ljubljana. And that's what I said earlier about the little manual of banalizing things. If we had a special law on development assistance to White Krajina and this their development axis against New Town with that ipsilon could also be done at Semič, then there would be no problem of guilt and costs to Ljubljana for anyone there. When we propose solutions to the opposition parliamentary group, which includes this same, the price of guilt is a problem. Interesting. That's an interesting approach. I would recommend to all those who have much to say and to my fellow mayors of many areas, such as Zasavje, from the stonework, the stoning work, the Chamber, also the Idrisko-Cerkljanski work, all these problems were covered in our proposal, all of them. The proposal concerning financial burdens is also sustainable, because we have written to start with 2012, so we have two years to prepare documentation, to put matters into space and so on. He's been corrected. If the coalition thinks that this needs to be accelerated, it can propose an amendment, so can we. And I don't think there's any problem with those parts of our proposal, for which there are conditions and solutions, starting earlier. There's no problem. 230 million euros, as much as is minimally foreseen at the annual level for the reconstruction package or the package for these issues, I do not think that there will be a problem with the 10 and a half billion euro budget for 2010 or 2011 at all. This is a small amount of resources, if properly allocated within the budget and properly directed. Don't worry about it. Because it's vital national interests. Obviously, however, all other reasons that have absolutely nothing to do with this are more important than why we should not approach this matter. I am also very pleased with these discussions about toll models, about the toll systems that were opened in the National Assembly. I have to say, I have quite a few experiences and some behaviors about the highways. Last time I was a member of the Dars Supervisory Board for four years, and I've come to know a lot of things, gentlemen, very well, not from far away, not from the media, but live. And I can speak very competently about a lot of things. By the year 2000, I was in Darsa’s Supervisory Council, where many projects were under way, and so on. When we talk about these toll systems and models, it is only necessary to say that the vignette system, which has been set at an acceptable price level for the Slovenian situation, €55, is a very sustainable toll system, a very sustainable price. Because then there was a significant shift of traffic from state roads to motorways. This has also led to improvements in traffic safety as traffic has moved to a more forward and safer corridor. This certainly had a very important impact because the part that was, for example, in the terms of tolls and daily payments with the ABC system or cash, in each individual case, is so expensive that for transit trucks and those who carried out passenger transport, passenger traffic, themselves, for example, used it, went on side roads and there caused problems, congestions, there was a great excess of speed and many accidents. The moment a sustainable toll was paid for the Slovenian situation, this traffic moved from these state roads and corridors, which were not intended to do so, to motorways, the matter changed significantly. And it has also significantly increased the flow of funds into the budget and has also risen with tolls. Now that these prices have risen by 73% in one year, it is noted that the trend is different again. The price of vinjete is too high for the average Slovenian situation, so there are outflows of traffic on, back to the state roads, reduced traffic along highways, sold less vineyards and the hole increases without need. No need. All those who are so bogged down by that great Mao theory you're doing this because there's probably another story behind it. We have recently considered the law on the upgrading of the motorway system, the ABC system, and it was even envisaged in some way that this would be done beyond the call for proposals. Probably not without a reason. And these systems that you bring to the National Assembly, you can sell to those who know a little less of these roads and highway stories, and maybe you arrange it so that it looks very logical and smart. In practice, this means that the matter will be extremely expensive, that it will be less money and that those who use it will pay a lot. But there's another target in the back. Back there are telecommunications systems. There are manufacturers in the back and those who are going to market it, etc. You know, when we put up some models, we can't, with every law, bring some kind of user sticker that doesn't mean anything at all, just a cost. And I would expect that we are also prudent in these debates and that we should give something to ensure that these state-owned road corridors, which are provided for in our law, are built as soon as possible. I think that for Slovenia, if it does so in the short term, as provided for by law, it is a great development potential, a great advantage. These road sections of state roads, which are foreseen and which link all areas to the motorway cross, are extremely important for the development of these areas. This means that there will also be some real development in the economic segment, the tourism segment, the agricultural segment. It is now that these things develop only on the highway cross, but where accessibility conditions are extremely good, where there is no waste of time where there is no congestion, where you can travel long distances in a short period of time. All these connections that we anticipate with our law are such that they are burdening all these environments. The problem is that when people get a job, say, in some urban center, this return journey is just for a while, and then it means a permanent outflow of people. That's why he's moving out of the country because there's no access, there's no coming back. Maybe someone's smiling or laughing, but that's about the way it is. This is the truth, which is the one who lives in the cities, neither feel nor see. And all those who use these routes every day, we know that's true. That's why our concentration in cities is happening, and we're emptying out rural areas, including larger rural areas, emptying out, lots of them, completely without need. I therefore suggest that the Government and the coalition think carefully about what to do with these packages of traffic laws. They are of a systemic nature, comprehensive, both for the railway and road areas. They also enable the resolution of some problems in the part-time work, where the biggest problems are. Interestingly, until the entire transport package, the government has been negatively identified, as well as a coalition. It would be very interesting if any of these were submitted by the Government, in the same text. Since I have been in the National Assembly for quite some time now, I know that on the other hand there would be a tremendous enthusiasm for the argument why this is good. There would be no restrictions on this to increase the public financial deficit, no obstacles would have to be put forward and so on. Even so, we are going so far in defending these government proposals that even when some areas, such as the Dolenj-Belkan region, are taking funds from certain items that have already been earmarked for European funding and are being reduced by 30 times. Those who, on the other hand, advocate a government proposal and even come from those areas are extremely enthusiastic. However, out of the few million euros previously budgeted, 50,000 euros have been saved to keep the item open at least. I don't understand such enthusiasm. If we want to do something good for our environment and also for the environment that is removed from the largest centres, then projects that mean something for these areas should be supported in particular. Not to be confused with some arguments, with some uncles and aunts and similar arguments that have nothing to do with some real life in some area. It is sad because in the proposal you signed with your colleagues, the Belarusian mayors, the blames have no effect on the price of the wines to Ljubljana, nothing as much as in our law. And you never mentioned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Mayor of Zasavje recognized himself in your debate. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. Today seems nothing special, a sad day, an even less pleasant day, but the least useful. Another word could be used on today, because I am sure that this debate will happen again when the Government comes with a national programme for the construction or maintenance of state roads, we will reiterate this. I hope that this national programme will be in parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. What I would like to emphasise is that I think the Government has been involved in the debate. With arguments, she tried to convince lawmakers that these laws were not good and also provided reasons why the Government did not support them. I think we've done that, too, by the representatives of the coalition parties. But we're talking about everything. Why are we talking about everything? Because that's what your proposal for a law is. Tell me where the other tunnel tube caravan belongs. To the state road network? Does the national programme for the construction of motorways in this country belong? Where does it belong? I submit that the law is poorly prepared by the legal system, that you know that this topic can be addressed through a national programme or the construction of motorways or with a national programme for the maintenance and construction of state roads. It is prescribed in the Law on Public Roads, and if you think otherwise, first make a proposal to amend the Law on Public Roads. As far as the tolls are concerned, that's all. The tolls were a welcome measure, but a financially unabsorbed measure. I tell you that in the coming years we will have great problems in this country, not in putting development axes in space, in building development axes, because it will be difficult to provide adequate financial resources, European money will slowly run out, and the state budget is not a bottomless moss, there are limited possibilities. However, limited options from the state budget will have to be provided with money to repay the loans that have been hired to build the highway system and will run out of development money that could be invested in the state road network or in the construction of the individual development axes that are needed. Here I agree with you, the third development axis is the need as a third A and probably some other. What you're trying to convince me is that you've actually assessed the financial implications; you know what, let's be a little serious. The construction of the development axis alone is a financial cost of about EUR 2.5 billion. Now add up all the sections that you have put into this law, and you will see how you have financially assessed or realistically assessed the financial consequences. You have only estimated that we need at least 0.6 million euros per year. If only it were as simple as that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	Mr. Jerič, I'm being warned that three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Since I have been mentioned several times, I feel obliged to repeat myself. It was never in my interest to offend anyone, no matter which side of this great hall this esteemed assembly of my colleagues and colleagues sits on, but I must say that when I spoke about the introduction of the wine system, the word on my uncle's case was therefore expressed because it is lifelike. This is a case of a life in which the introduction of a vignette does not mean a cheaper system for someone who goes once or twice a year to Ljubljana. But for those of us who drive a lot, it's definitely cheaper. And that's all I wanted to say. What, though, was signed by the Belarusian Member in support of the White Land, of course as the only one, even as mayor of Metlika? I was certainly one of the two fellow mayors who was a signatory, but we know that there are quite a few colleagues of mayors present in the National Assembly or any other in the municipal councils to present the conclusions of the municipal councils. That's what I did. And he is not ashamed of it, even if it was a decision that the government might at a given time something went wrong, but it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, Dr. Jakomin, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Today, under this item, the proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia is under consideration, but a large part of the debate was held on the topic of vinje, which is not part of this proposal. Nevertheless, I think that Mrs Brunskole is right that we have to tell the truth, and it is probably only right here to say some things that may be forgotten. The wine system was introduced in the middle of 2008. This introduction has led to more than 20 million reductions in toll revenues in 2009, with a significant financial impact. Due to the introduction of vignettes, the number of vehicles has not increased, this data, you know, there is a technology that counts the number of cars, and there has been no significant increase in vehicles. However, the introduction of vignettes in 2008 led to the European Commission initiating a lawsuit against Slovenia on the basis of a discriminatory toll system. That's right. In view of this, I am pleased to say that these are the latest information from the European Commission that the European Commission has stopped the action procedure, precisely because we have introduced a system that is no longer discriminatory. As for the proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, however, the position of the Government has remained unchanged since the beginning of the debate, when I had the opportunity to express my position so far, so that I do not see the importance of replicating the non-consistent debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the motioner, Dr. Verlich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. First, something about the non-constant debates that we have received from a government representative. I expected a more consistent debate myself, but unfortunately, he himself could not resist the temptation and talked about the wines instead of the bill. However, if I return to our proposal for a law that we have tabled as the Slovenian Democratic Party, I note that the coalition does not have the political will at this moment to accompany this law to the next stages and rejects it. It must be said that this law sets priorities and by rejecting the law, you reject the third development axis. You reject the third A development axis from Škofljica towards the border with Croatia. You refuse all additional highway program from Divače-Postojna, Jelšane [[border with Croatia]] , Koper-Dragonja, Koses-Kosarje, Drazenci-Gruškovje [[border with Croatia]] , Šmarje Sap-Višnja Gora, western outskirts of Maribor, Dramalje-Sentjur, Povodje-Stanežice, southern outskirts of Ljubljana-Škofljica. You're turning down. You're against it. And you reject all those developmental axes that could mean further development, regional development of Slovenia. We have called it the working 5th Development Axis, but you are against the connection Unec-Zlebič, Ribnica-Kočevje-New City. You are against 5A development axis from Montenegro to Kočev. You're against the suture development axis. You are against the observational development axis, you are against the construction of the second tube of the caravan highway tunnel, you are against the connection of the 4th development axis with Gorenjska to the section of Kranjska Gora-Bovec with the tunnel Vršič, you are against the link of the airport of Jožet Pučnik to the highway system and you are towards the eastern and western districts of Novo mesto. And you are also against the highway connection from the highway - Kamnika-Gornji Grad-Mozirje and the link to the 3rd development axis, as the link between the Celje and Savinja-Shale region. Because if we were to say today, and the priority sections are really the priorities of this country. This is what this country needs and needs to build. Because then there would also be debates about how much money there is, how much money there is, whether we can or will be economically justified. Because if we go to this part of the debate, then really some kind of road, because of the negative economic results of profitability, it can fall out because it has to. But we don't want to, we don't want to. We know that this level of profitability is often negative in rail connections in particular, but because of wider social acceptability it is then built up, because this means some development potential. And that's what we as proponents wanted, and now we don't have to move around here anymore. If we do not want these priority sections, then we will do everything possible to improve the law by making all the comments that will certainly make it better. It can also be improved in the part that has been quite released today - putting routes into space. This is also one of the ambitions of this law. If putting into space goes with that new law, which is being prepared by the Government, which is not yet, I suppose it will, but I personally doubt that it will come, because first, I think, it will have to wait for the new minister, but the new minister of environment and space will certainly want to see what this document is like if it wants to be, a credible minister, because if it doesn't, he will leave it to the officials, and then it won't be that ambition, because I heard earlier that it was terrible for some question of the Members, because it was promised that it would start in 2008 on the third development axis. Now in 2013 the first placements in the space - the first regulation on the State Spatial Plan for 3rd Development Axis, which is quite good. That's just the way it is now. We'll be patient by 2013. At the same time, however, we are preparing a law that will ensure that this is placed in a more rapid space. There was no answer to the question of when it would be. The government didn't respond. They didn't know how to say it, even though this law is already in interdepartmental coordination. However, they do not know how to place the 3rd development axis in a room with this new law faster than in 2013. That's ambition. And this law gives this opportunity. It gives the opportunity to respect all hands, gives the government a mandate to do so in these hands. However, if housing problems arise, especially when it comes to real estate, when it comes to decommissioning, this can be addressed by a specific law. Although I am sure that this article, as far as discharge is concerned, if this was the problem, that the adoption of this law should be allowed to go forward if we read Article 5, where we did not just write that it was a public benefit, but we wrote that it was a matter of building sections of public roads which, under this law, were a public benefit which was of paramount importance to the Republic of Slovenia. If this does not stand up to every judgment, unfortunately, if it is not different, the road is also used for decommissioning, if that is not a sufficient legal basis, I do not know what is stronger. National program - no. Why did we choose marriage, which was one of the reasons?Oh, my God! We have experience with resolutions - the railway resolution, the resolution on the national programme, the 1996 national programme, but it was not successful and adopted by the National Assembly. It has to be admitted. It was 30 percent realized, so it wasn't. If we look at the national programmes for the construction of motorways that have been implemented as they have been implemented, we know what are the differences between the national programme, which has been adopted and between the annual programmes and reports. So, as if we didn't have it, because the highway programme went some way and also rightly, of course, the state programme, the national programme for the development of the national road network, was not adopted. Therefore, because of past experience, which did not prove to be good, they were accepted in the National Assembly, with exactly the same intention, I am sure, with the same conviction. If I went to watch the magnetograms, I am sure that the debaters at the time of the 1996 national programme on railway infrastructure were firmly convinced that the year 2000 will be the year when the second track of Divača-Koper will be built. It wasn't because it was in the national programme that you were supposed to have everything you said today. That's why we decided to propose a law. In order to give the transport infrastructure the legal importance to the roads that are important to this country. That the third A development axis does not only deserve a place in strategies and development, it deserves a place in an article of law. He deserves it. I don't know what the problem is. This will indeed become a legal obligation of this country. And I think the National Assembly could be very proud of that achievement. And I personally have no problems, as opposed to a fellow Member who had previously compared this project with Patrio, I do not know where he got this comparison, which is not what the government is now trusting in. The government, which actually has the executive address to carry out these projects, I think we need to trust that we want to take things on an operational basis, because we will not go to the National Assembly for every agreement. No, we have to trust the government. After all, the government now has a coalition that is likely to trust it and can also give it this legal mandate. More than a rational decision and more than a rational solution. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot conclude otherwise than I have begun to believe that, when you are so hard against going to further consideration, you are also against these priority directions, which are written in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that you have debated all those who wanted to do so, the time for discussion has not yet run out. I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. So there's no doubt I'm giving you time to report. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	Five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	Time is running out. Please don't make business just to answer. [[...]] [[...]] [[It's mutual bargaining.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	I'm opening another time to report. Mr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	I'm sorry, because for the first time, the light was on, something was wrong. This equipment on this side rarely works. First of all, I would say that I am pleased to have a limited number on Friday afternoon, when the afternoon turns into an evening, as much a lively discussion as the roads. I have pointed out several times in the National Assembly that I would be happy if we had such a discussion about science, especially science or the like, including the environment on some subjects, but also on roads. There are things on the road that interest us and are very important in life. There's no doubt about that. Mao's book was mentioned today, very rightly it was. I think her colleagues in SDS don't only know her well, and you can use her well. This law could also in some way be an addition to this Mao book. I don't think you've been led by any, I don't know, such or any other purpose, and I don't want to ask myself why you didn't put this law in the previous term, because I think it's unworthy to ask yourself about the previous term, but I wonder if you'd been in the government today, would you put in such a law? I'm honestly sure you wouldn't. If you did not know that such a law allows for five or three hours of debate, but is not operational at the level, I would say, the implementation of programmes, the implementation of road sections. There's something I know about planning, urban, spatially, and I would only say that if you give 10 priorities, then of course you haven't mentioned any. Above all, it is clear that setting priorities is the most difficult issue, because in a limited framework, you have to set limited resources, you have to say, you and these sections go time and space faster than others. This is planning and, of course, here it doesn't mean anything if you didn't put it up, then it's very hard to say. This Article 4 is general and does not specifically refer to matters. Things could still be corrected wrongly stating that only smaller places, that rural areas are empty, are indeed, an empty part of the countryside, but it must be said that cities are also being emptied. The cities are also being emptied. The central, central areas of cities and most of the major Slovenian cities are being emptied, we in the region, Ljubljana, for almost 30 years. And what is the result of this is the suburbanization, the way of settlement that will cost us the most, not only from the point of view of roads, but also from the point of view of municipal, other information infrastructure. This could make more sense in another context. Such a law can make it possible to debate and I am not sure that this is not a useful debate. Every debate has some value, but of course such a law reminds me of the fact that they could also adopt a law, they also proposed a law that has one article and reads, Article 1 reads by eliminating all problems in the Republic of Slovenia. The law shall enter into force on the following day. We can adopt such a law, but we know that it will not apply. That is why, of course, this aspect of planning these matters is much more complicated, much more demanding, because it requires prioritisation and there is no decision on priorities. I've said a lot about vineyards. You know my position very well. And I can only say that and, above all, that this system is good for all of us who are in here. Once I've spent 500 euros, today I'm spending 95 euros. These people, mentioned by Mrs Brunskole, are paying for us. And that's bad or they're paying for us now, they're going to be less because we have a different system. And that's bad. Such a system is not sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! I'll try to talk about the roads. We also discussed roads a lot on the Transport Committee, including on the development axes. There's been a lot of talk. We wanted a decision to be taken to speed up the placement in the area of development axes where there is already some agreement of the local communities, where it is seen that a step forward has been taken. However, such a decision has not been adopted. I would also like to say that more than a year ago we discussed on the same committee when the Minister himself said that certain legislation should be adopted to accommodate the premises faster and, in particular, to obtain land, if this is not done at the Ministry of Environment and Space, both ministers will leave. Well, so far only one has left. However, this law has not been adopted so far, even though a promise was made last year to be adopted by the end of last year. In particular, with regard to placing the 3rd development axis in space, I would say that it has been said that these development axes will not only be a transport link. However, when the placement preparation programme or the production of a study of placement variants was adopted in the area of individual sections of the 3rd development axis, we immediately noted that the preparation programme was the same as for motorways. There's nowhere in this development component program. So it's as cheap as possible and as short a route as possible to build a road. There were no development components here, and the economy and local communities warned that this was wrong. And on this basis, there were also some variants that were confirmed or agreed by the local communities in certain parts. On the Transport Committee, we have adopted some conclusions on how to accelerate the placement of these sections in the space with a view to mobilising the European funds still available by 2013 and 2015. The conclusions were mainly intended for this purpose. However, on the other hand, government representatives claimed that the first sections would be placed in the premises of 2012 and some in 2013. By the Director of the Directorate for Roads mag. Ficka was told to take things in such a way that when ideas, variants are developed, then the story begins again, individual initiatives, local communities are included and excruciating acts begin before the micro-location occurs. So we're a long way from these developmental axes. It has already been highlighted, the mayor's colleague also said where we will get €2.5 billion to finance these development axes. I don't see them at the time, probably not the government. That is why I have also proposed on the Committee that the European funds still available should be distributed in some way economically to state roads, especially those sections of state roads with this money, which will go somewhat contrary to the economy, in parts of the regions where municipalities also have special development needs, where there is still some way of living the economy, to ensure that certain road links are built to keep the economy there. It cannot be built to drive everyone to Ljubljana to work, but to keep the economy there. Probably one of the most urgent things is also part of the third development axis, which is around the New City towards the White Krajina, with connection to the Croatian highway. This is one corridor that is most urgent, if not elsewhere, will probably be the hardest to place this part through the city, the New Town, and I think there could be a section here that would go to a priority rescue because we know [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Let me show you something. The proposal for a law on the construction of priority sections of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia covers so many pages. This, the explanation, the law itself has only twelve articles. I simply have to answer that no one in this National Assembly is against the 2nd Article of this Act and against all the sections listed below: Unec, Žlebič, Ribnica, Kočevje, Novo mesto, Črnomelj, Kočevje, Kranjska Gora, Bovec, second tube of the highway tunnel Karavanka, Kranj, Jezersko, border with Austria, airport Jožet Pučnika, Catež, Slovenska Bistrica, etc. No one is against it, but we are in favour of the laws being written in such a way that they will be in line with some order that we have and that we respect. I have already said in the previous debate, how about sustainability, sustainability, how and what sustainability and harmony mean. It's also a deal between you, it's growing a culture of dialogue and growing something, actually, when you're putting responsibility on someone else without realizing what the consequences are for the third. And let me tell you again about the vignettes, because these vigils were a stumbling block to many. They're for me because guilt isn't sustainable in anything. They are not sustainable because they simply do not stimulate or destimulate driving. They are not sustainable because they do not place transport and distribution between different entities. Nor is it, because, as such, they were unable to fill this budget as expected, despite the fact that the crisis and in some ways the traffic has not increased, but the installation of the funds in the budget for the vineyards is smaller. This is said, despite the fact that you have planned so much and that the ride has not soared, there is an even smaller decline or a greater fall in the budget. This is said to have been set up only because of the debate, because it was very important and we have also learned a lot, but it is not operational at all, and this bringing of points for local elections will not bring anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I don't usually talk about infrastructure and some kind of topic that I don't think I know enough. I only answer when my local environment expects me to support a matter - either in relation to railways or roads. Well, it was that I was always put in a position by the opposite side, that I knew nothing about railways or roads, even though I had learned about my discussions with experts. However, I do not allow myself to be held responsible for what Dr. Verlich said before, and therefore I am adverting that if I am against this law, I am against what everything is and all ten priorities have been set. I am not against the construction of roads in Slovenia. My personal experience is to see the difference between the Municipality of Maribor and the municipal municipalities, even after the suburban municipalities have better infrastructure than the city of Maribor. But what is also unacceptable and what needs to be responded to today are repeated allegations that we are discussing Friday, that there are no government representatives and that the government representatives are silent. I'm used to the laws I'm interested in coming on Fridays as a rule. Even the previous term - the laws on education and culture, always on Fridays. As a rule, the government's representatives were silent, as a rule, my interlocutor was not a minister in the laws, but they were state secretaries or directors of the Directorates. By the rules of procedure. And you know why and when we changed that. If we talk now about what is written in the law and why I will not support this law. I agree with those who feel that there must be some sort of planning, some strategy, some vision to rule in these things. The law talks about plans from 2012 to 2030. I don't see it in such a way that I can solve these matters with this law. However, this is a matter of resolution on the national road construction programme, probably. If I look at Article 8, I'm pretty scary. When I think back on the readings about how you're saying it's increasing during this government's time of debt. Where are you looking for financial resources to build? It's a debt. They are provided in Slovenia's budget by debt, from European funds from tolls, which are, how they will move according to all we know, as well as from funds provided under the public-private partnership, but be careful whether local communities comply with the law governing this area. It is your pleasure to make it clear that the law we adopt in the National Assembly cannot interfere with the planning of the use of funds from local communities. That's exactly what you're proposing here. And don't be offended, don't be blinded by these, don't talk about how ugly the coalition is, the one who won't accept the good proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm so sorry. I would be happy if I could raise my hand and say for some law of peaceful conscience, which is a law in which various interests can be united and supported. But I'm sorry, a whole bunch of laws have already gone through this procedure, even through pay-per-view, that we've been talking about this for hours and we've had to defend ourselves all the time just how ugly we are, who don't want to understand good intentions. But I would say that because today's expression, including the pain of who's in power. Let this government draw up laws and measures. In front of the electorate, she will answer and compete for confidence in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. First of all, as far as responsibility is concerned. Perhaps you too can leave the opposition to the Slovenian Democratic Party to propose laws in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Probably, I like this today, a package of traffic laws, I really like this term, it probably met some business regulations, if not, probably the President of the National Assembly wouldn't have allowed this debate. Probably not. But probably, I'm sure I'd never let go of a law like he mentioned before, with one article, "to solve all the problems." However, I respect the authority of the President of the National Assembly so much that this was now more of a Friday afternoon joke. As far as this proposal is concerned with financial resources, I must say that I am actually pleased when I look at the government's opinion, and I am a little bit surprised here. See, as he says, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposed approach to providing financial resources over a longer period for the development of a network of state roads. In some ways, such a funding approach for the Government is somehow acceptable. Look, when we talk about these things, we just have to balance things. I'm sorry, but I have to say again, if the law, the bill, is rejected, it is rejected in all the articles. But if he's good at some part, then it's said, in this part, he's good, we think the priorities are right. Then, of course, the logical conclusion is that it is good enough to allow it to go forward with the procedure and all these reasons, with regard to financing, putting into space, in short, all these dilemmas, which are still open, are then improved in further stages and here normally, of course, but here, if we have already found that these sections are, and that they are not opposed. Let us follow the law, and let us correct those differences that seem to you to be bad in this marriage. This is also a normal parliamentary procedure. And to conclude with regard to vignettes and sustainability. I have already said here in the National Assembly, and I would just like to repeat, let's try the second year for the summer tourist season for two months, and the toll stations are still, from Ljubljana to Kopra, to introduce a simple toll system, and we will ask all those tourists who will wait for what they think about the sustainable policy of the Slovenian highway network when they wait three hours in a column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and allowing me a little joke at the end. I am sure that we have discussed so thoroughly and so richly that even the proponents have failed and in the end there are only eight of us left, among these two candidates, in the National Assembly. I know this is also because we are not voting today. However, my humble comment is that even without a lot of words, more could be said. On the proposal for a law and whether it is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday in accordance with the time frame of the assembly, which is why I hereby end this item of the agenda as well as today's meeting of the assembly. We will continue the assembly on Tuesday, February 2nd, at 9 p.m. Thank you all and good night.
