ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! From the Committee on Foreign Policy, I was informed that they would need an estimated 15 minutes to complete the consideration of the item on the agenda tomorrow, so I decided to start the meeting 15 minutes later. If they're done by then, fine, if not, of course not. So, the meeting will begin at 10.15 a.m. Thank you very much to all of you who are here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Marijan Pojbič, Franc Jurša, Ivan Grill, Tadej Slapnik, Miran Jerič, Villa Rezman, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Bojan Kontič from 1 p.m. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You want procedural? Please, Mr. Tanko. Procedural proposal before the agenda is set. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have two laws on the agenda in the general debate, which redefine the congregations, and I would like a very clear explanation: Are the conditions of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly fulfilled for the consideration of these two laws at the same meeting? It states that the general debate can only be held in such a way as to deal with laws in order and that two laws dealing with the same social relationship cannot be dealt with at the same meeting. These two laws, which speak of the establishment of the congregation of Mirna and the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, if I shorten, regulate the exact same social relationship and are both included in this meeting. That's one question. The second question is: all Members of Parliament received a letter from the Municipality of Koper that you had only asked them yesterday for an opinion on the work or on the law establishing the new congregation of Ankaran. 145. However, Article 145 of the Law makes it very clear that in the case of a normal procedure, a regular procedure or a reduced procedure, such a period may not be less than 30 days, except in urgent procedures, it may be shorter, but these two laws do not go by emergency procedure. In fact, I wonder if the conditions for dealing with these two business reasons for these two laws at this meeting are met. And I have a third question. About a month earlier, this is said to have been 16 April 2010, the Government introduced an amendment to the Local Self-Government Act, where it deletes that part of the provisions of this Act, which allows the establishment of new municipalities on the basis of exceptions. A month later, two groups of Members introduced a law that is in fact contrary to this government proposal. In fact, I am interested in your position: Are the conditions for dealing with these two laws fulfilled? Should we continue to consider the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government in order to define the conditions there at all, since it was also the first to be submitted, and only then to deal with the laws implementing those provisions? In short, you know for yourself that there is a series of complicated procedural matters here, you yourself have said that in the College, but you have done nothing in this area to clarify this situation. I wonder what you're gonna do in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much for this procedural question. I think it was in place. As far as your first question is concerned. I have consulted with the meeting preparation services and I have also decided to propose to the College that these two laws establishing the two congregations, Mirna and Ankaran, be placed on the agenda of an extraordinary meeting, of course because a request has been made for this. The Rules of Procedure do not limit the possibility of such legislation being considered at the same meeting, since Article 117, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, regulates the situation in which the same social relationship is concerned, which is not the case in the case of both amendments to the Law on the Establishment of Communities and the Designation of Their Areas. It is a law that establishes congregations with one provision, and it is crucial that individual solutions to the establishment of a new congregation do not interfere with one another or are not related. More. In theory, though, each congregation could be established with its own law, of course, if there was no possibility of possible harmonisation of such individual laws. In my opinion and my belief, it is always necessary to draw on the purpose of the provision and therefore Article 17, paragraph 1, should be interpreted in such a way that the National Assembly cannot at the same time address those laws which interfere with the same social relationship, since such a possible simultaneous adoption of both laws would lead to different arrangements for the same issue, that is, to mutual non-compliance. It is clear to everyone that there is no such relationship in this case. If one law had been passed and the other did not, there would have been no discrepancy and vice versa. If both or none were accepted, this non-compliance would not have occurred, and such treatment would therefore be possible and admissible. As regards the position of the municipality of Koper, the mayor. I must say that I fully understand him, but the following must be said. First time. The constitutional right to convene an extraordinary meeting is a right and therefore a stronger one. Another time. This is the first consideration of the bill, which is to discuss and decide the objectives, purposes, appropriateness of the law for further consideration. If the National Assembly decides that the law, in this case on Ankara, is suitable for further discussion, it will be possible and necessary to take into account any comments received in the second reading of the proposal. Thus it is clear here that for the second reading of the law such an opinion must be given. That's it. As for the third issue, this is the law on local self-government, it must be said that this is the proposal that has been tabled. It is another law and no one can predict in advance whether this law will be adopted or not, it goes into procedure. But it's another law and it's not hiding with these two laws. These are formal, procedural clarifications and, of course, do not affect the opinion on the fate of these two laws. So, please procedurally, Mr. Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. With regard to the letter you sent and received yesterday in the Municipality of Koper, I would like to remind everyone that you wrote, quote: "On the basis of the above, I inform you that you may have an opinion on the proposal for a law for which you have been asked by letter 5. 5. 2010, report no later than the start of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly." So, I'm finding some discrepancy between what it says and what you just said. I'm asking you if you can explain this discrepancy. I hope that in this way you will send the Municipality of Koper to us, a new letter explaining the right deadline, because here it is understood that the time limit for delivering opinions, the deadline, is this morning until 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to explain to myself what I've written. If you can give an opinion now, give it by the beginning of the meeting, if not, if the decision of the National Assembly is adopted, that the law is suitable for further consideration, I will inform the Municipality of Koper immediately of the time limit within which it should forward its opinion and the matter will proceed. If it is decided that the law is appropriate for further consideration. If it is decided that it is not appropriate, of course this notice, clearly, I will not send it. That's obvious. So, the draft agenda was received by reference to the meeting on 21 May 2010. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 59, for 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Thirdly, the draft law on integration and prevention of corruption within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Your Honor! When the Council of State gave its support to this bill unanimously, without a vote against it, the call was addressed to the honourable Members and Members equally. Because with this law - so much political support for this regulation - it would give the Commission the legitimacy to prevent corruption, to fight unwanted phenomena in society as an independent body, and not least, an important message that we are ready to limit ourselves to public authorities in processes where we have concentrated power. More than 66% of Slovenes and Slovenes said in 2008 that corruption is also a worrying and disturbing phenomenon in Slovenia. The statistics on our citizens' applications and on the Commission's approach to preventing corruption from year to year are increasing. In 2006, when only 263 Slovenes and Slovenes turned to the Commission, 1027 Slovenes and Slovenes turned to the Commission in 2009. It is also worrying that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in 2006 assessed the conduct of public authorities suspected of committing corruption by only 44 reported acts, and in 2008 it in fact withdrew to the authorities of 231 acts. All of this calls for the adoption of the proposed regime. By means of this proposed regulation, we recognise, in fact, in a restrictive and highly self-restrictive way, that it is necessary to systematically install fuses so that the power concentrated in the legislative, enforcement and judicial authorities, both at state and municipal level, does not apply to private interests of individuals who take part in this official function or to individuals who support public authorities through capital. Strengthening the Commission to prevent corruption as an independent body, with fewer officials, not with five, with three, and with the tasks it is given, in a work where we really want civil society to form that buffer of preventive action and action that it deserves in modern regimes and democracies, thus giving it that position. Due to the inadmissibility of spending public funds, we want and introduce the text of the anti-corruption clause, which will be mandatory in all contracts through which more than €10,000 is spent on public funds. A new chapter on conflict of interest. We make it very clear that anyone who decides and experiences a conflict of private and public interest is obliged to be excluded in these procedures. We are introducing more up-to-date supervision of the assets of officials, which will also be made available to the public. Indisputably, the issue of compatibility of functions is prepared in such a way that due to conflict of interest we prevent the power and accumulation of the power of function in individual functional functions. We regulate lobbying, integrity plans, criminal sanctions and actually allow the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest and unfair conduct by penalties that are inconvenient, successful, and not impromptu. A communication from the Slovenian public, if the political authorities, the legislative branch of power, Members and Members of Parliament, and of course the Government, which we are most responsible for the exercise of power, or a message with a high degree of support for this law, would also give great support to the independent state authority and in fact acknowledge that we are thinking extremely seriously when we turn to the words on the honesty of our operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The Social Democrats will support the bill. I think that there has been a long debate in the government and in the end also at the meetings of the National Assembly and that it is now time to adopt the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, also because of the expectations and demands of people, that the issue, which in any case creates uncertainty, should be addressed in an appropriate manner, because it is a majority opinion, after all the surveys that have been conducted in the public, that Slovenia must regulate an area that should prevent corruption from being carried out. We are aware that the Anti-Corruption Commission will not be able to resolve all issues. However, it will be able to act effectively, it will be able to create an appropriate social climate, it will be able to help ensure that integration programmes in all public and private areas, and in particular public and legal persons, are designed to prevent corruption. Finally, we believe that it is right to adopt the law because it introduces some important innovations, perhaps not completely, but as a solution that will allow us to make a concrete assessment of whether certain changes and additions are necessary. In this addition, I am primarily referring to the protection of applicants for anti-corruption actions. You know that the majority opinion is that the Commission has already received the most notice to prevent corruption, but there have also been a lot of questions whether applications should be made or not because people were afraid to apply, because they would not bear any special consequences for themselves or their family. Where such circumstances occur, the law provides for the protection of applicants for anti-corruption practices. The next important new issue is the resolution of the lobbying issue. We all who are in Parliament know that lobbying has worked and worked more or less successfully until now, but it has not been organised, it has not been known publicly who is lobbyist, it was not necessary to apply as a lobbyist, it was not necessary to report certain conduct that the lobbyist is carrying out, and in this way it was possible that, instead of honest information that should have been lobbyed on behalf of the companies they represent, it was also possible for those who decide to act with doubt. All of these are the reasons why it is worth the law to support and the possible ambiguities that are still there to clear up the implementation process. In the end, let me put it this way. We firmly believe that the way in which the President and the two Vice-Presidents of the Commission are elected to prevent corruption is appropriate and that it is right to seek and implement a procedure that will provide an expert opinion on the proposals that are prepared, and this makes it possible for the current Article 9, and ultimately also the responsibility of the President of the State for the proposals prepared, which in any event withdraws the direct candidates from the innermost policy cycle, which would be the Government, or even if they were Members and Members through the Parliament-Electorial Commission in the National Assembly. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Good-bye to all of you. The law before us in the SDS Group will not be supported because it in some way symbolically reflects the policy of the current coalition. Instead of an effective preventive fight against corruption - this law introduces a fight for appearance, to give a look at how the very ruling coalition fights corruption - the effects of this law, which is poorly written, which is legally questionable, will be completely contrary to what its declaration role is. The law is legally flawed, and in some ways it is best to reflect the fact that even more amendments have been tabled in only 90 articles of the law, 95 all together, as far as the law has them, and especially interestingly, two thirds, 65, were tabled by the ruling coalition and most refer to the legal inadequacy of the text. This is proof that even a year and a half after the government has taken over its role, it is not legally operational, is unable to produce laws which, according to the local word, would have a tail and head and which would put order into the legal space of the state of Slovenia. The law, as it is, will bring more and more riots and cause difficulties in its implementation. The best evidence of where stretching formulations are brought, the vague formulations that this law is full of is the amendment, which is also tabled today by the coalition, that is, the ruling majority, and which touches on the incompatibility of functions. For there the article is written in such a way that if we read it carefully legally, then because it is a professional official such as a Member, it introduces complete incompatibility between the parliamentary and mayoral functions. But the content of this article, which is again unclear, here does not make an explicit exception, it is said, legally going in the direction that I have presented, contrary to the explanation that ends, I quote: "Therefore the provision does not regulate the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions." Did the writer even read what he wrote down? I can only ask myself that question. In fact, other persons of public or private law are no doubt also local communities, and you read it however you wish. Finally, this law and such articles can be decided by the Constitutional Court. However, to those who have been questioned, including from the types of ruling coalition, this kind of legally expansive formulation only at the end of the previous meeting, after we have warned of this several times in previous procedures, I can only wish for it: good morning and much success in the future. In fact, the law, as it is, will not only not help prevent corruption, but will, to a certain extent, help to even institutionalise corruption in one part of political society. In fact, this bill does not only apply to the public sector, because we have also proposed interventions to a large extent also in the private sector, even in a manner that is constitutionally controversial, because private property is a constitutional category, but this law is also a union of everything that has apparently seemed to be what it said is productive to make it look like a very fighting coalition against corruption. And if anyone doubts that it was about appearance, let them take a look at the original text sent to Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There was explicitly written a provision that sanctioned something to make it appear to have an impact — beware, this is a legal precedent, "par exellence", for the first time in history, a situation where the appearance of something would have direct material consequences for the one concerned. Something similar, of course, you won't find in any other legal order. Well, later on, with your amendment, you covered this up slightly for the formulation of "the possibility that something might affect", which is also highly irregular and stretching, only the appearance you avoided, but the content remains the same; it's about the appearance, not the core of the story. Well, when I said that everything that seemed to someone in the government and the ruling coalition was involved in the act of anti-corruption, I would like to point out that you have included lobbyists and lobbyists in the law. This is an important topic that deals with virtually the entire democratic world, and would certainly require a special law because of the sensitivity and the various dimensions it has in this area. We have also proposed this in the SDS and, like all the amendments of the SDS Group, with which we wanted to achieve that the effect of this law would not be merely an act of anti-corruption but, in fact, an effective legal tool to prevent corruption, you have rejected this; like all other SDS amendments. And now you've led to a situation that's tragic. You have introduced lobbying and lobbying and lobbying into the same law; on the other hand, you have introduced a provision to finance a certain part of civil society from taxpayers' money from public funds, which, under this law, will be financed by the competent commission established under this law, specifically by those NGOs that will explicitly support the fight against corruption. What exactly did you do with that? They will decide on the allocation of funds, will decide on the same control over the allocation of funds and will prevent the same corruption within the lobbying on the basis of the same funds. And the circle will be closed. And this is really a pure political monolith, because also with the amendments you have adopted at the committee meeting, you have transformed a committee that will decide on the appropriateness of the candidates, which the President of the State will ultimately decide, that this commission will be completely monolithic and will be composed of representatives, who will be appointed there by the Government, of course by the ruling coalition, from a representative of Parliament, who will, of course, be called by the ruling coalition again, because it has a majority in Parliament. And then there will be a representative of the Council of Justice and the rest of them, who are also known how to deal with this majority. Well, you've found a whole room for these NGOs. This will also affect those who share their resources, so that it will be as obvious as possible what I want to point out. By also laying down in the same law that this Commission will cooperate directly with these same NGOs, you have literally institutionalised systemic corruption in the part of civil society and all organisations that will be financed in this way will be objectively pushed into the role of one additional government pirator in the area of anti-corruption. And it's clear that if they don't slam into the same horn, if they don't praise the government, the tentacles will close. You put them in this position. This is not a criticism of civil society, a criticism of these organizations. No, no, no, no, no! It is a criticism of you who push civil society into dependence, a direct dependence on the ruling, ruling coalition, its political options, and wants to submit it in those rare parts where it has not been entirely subordinated to it so far. Under the umbrella of the fight against corruption, this law therefore institutionalises systemic corruption within civil society. No wonder, then, that Prof. Dr. Lovno Sturm has for some time warned as a professor of constitutional law that we are living in the reign of systemic kleptocracy. And in some ways, it's symbolic to say that in the fight against corruption, we're going to corrupt who we're going to have to, and it's going to cost what it wants. This is the continuation of the Butals tradition by the Transitional Left this time and it goes with taxpayers' money, to buy support from NGOs, now in government, ruling or if you want, ruling to want legal care for its appearance. So it's an image. The taxpayer’s money will be misused to satisfy the indiscretion of the ruling elite and, of course, to the appearance of the authorities, for this is a well - founded authority that obviously means everything to some. When I said that it was ensured that the transition left would be fully decided in the process, of course, it must also be borne in mind that the law, like many others that have been adopted in the last year, is once again increasing the powers of the President of the State, who will eventually appoint this commission in the final stage. This despite the warnings of constitutional lawyers, both left and right, that these appointments are already too much, although the constitution allows them by law, but these things go far too far, for the appointments that take place in Parliament, which is primarily intended to do so, are taking place in a much more transparent manner. Take place in the presence of both the positions and the opposition, where they can therefore face opinions directly. And in Slovenia we live in parliamentary democracy, it is not the presidential system. Therefore, constitutional lawyers have long warned that this goes beyond the constitutional framework of our country. But it is also a question of the credibility of such a commission, because it is necessary to look at how it works from the point of view of values as it is a matter of values. We have a president of the state who decorated the former leader of the Udba. And then in defence of this act, which was rejected by both the European People's Party, it is said that the central and centre-right parties, as well as the Social Democratic International, where the comrades from Slovenia sought support for this act, in particular the Germans rejected them as being incompatible with the values on which the United Europe is founded, because it is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall, and is clearly contrary to both the Council of Europe resolution and the European Parliament resolution, which explicitly condemns the previous totalitarian regime in all its forms and also the secret police of this regime as its key tool. Then one of the parties in the National Assembly, the largest government party, stood up as a wall in defense of this act, so that this direct ideological and party relationship is so much more obvious. So much to warn if anyone wants to deny that this is an ideological monolith that is trying to be established by this law and will certainly also lead to abuse, especially because in this law, as I have pointed out at the outset, there are extremely large amounts of stretching formulations, constitutionally questionable formulations, which also affect the sensitive area of human rights. And here we should take time to think about it, we should assess it, now is the time, because it is the third treatment, and we should change the law – at least in the parts where it is still possible. However, if this does not happen, then the law will have to be rejected in its entirety, as it is clear that it is being rushed back for pianist reasons. This is contrary to the Resolution on Regulatory Activity, which was adopted by the National Assembly at the warnings of the SDS. In fact, the law is now written in such a way that immediately, literally the next day, because the coalition is catching its own backlog, there are already procedures for appointing a commission under the old law. So that in the Resolution on the normative activities of government slemparia as a reason for hurrying, to enforce the law faster than normal enforcement procedures, you will certainly not find. All of these are reasons for sound reflection today, on the basis of which at least the law needs to be amended. But if that doesn't work, then I'll say no. That's what we're gonna do in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have a third, final reading of the Bill on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The adoption of the proposal for this law is in a hurry. Therefore, it was also the Government's proposal to address it at an extraordinary meeting, as the current mandate of the Commission to prevent corruption is expiring. It is necessary to appoint a new commission and, last but not least, the law governs a number of matters relating to that commission. We support things as they are regulated in our parliamentary group. We believe that the solutions are good, including the solution that there will be no more five officials on the Commission from now on, but only three, which means, last but not least, less wages for officials and savings. Secondly, including the decision to appoint the President of the State as members of the Anti-Corruption Commission. In doing so, we believe that this is a good solution, that this solution is better than being called by the National Assembly. However, I must say, in a way, I am surprised that such appointment binds itself solely and exclusively to the current President. This appointment is linked to any president of the country and the reason for the objection to such a solution cannot, of course, be that and that Dr Türk, as has been said, has decorated Ertle and this is the reason why we should not or should not have been able to give the power to appoint members of the anti-corruption commission to the President of the State. This is certainly the right solution. This position has a great reputation, and last but not least, the President of the State has been elected in direct elections, and in this way his credibility, every time his credibility, is certainly great, and thus we avoid politicisation in the appointment of members of the anti-corruption commission. Let me repeat some other known facts regarding the content of the law. It regulates and promotes fair and transparent behaviour and decision-making of public servants and also promotes good practices for all those involved in decision-making processes. The proposed law, according to our assessment, introduces solutions that go beyond the classic description of preventing corruption and other socially dangerous phenomena. The law also foresees the continued existence of a anti-corruption commission, which has been repeatedly challenged in the previous mandate of the previous government and has sought entirely other, inappropriate solutions that would reduce, significantly reduce, the standard of independence of the anti-corruption commission and thus combat or combat corruption in the country. The powers of the recast anti-corruption commission also strengthen the role of an independent and independent State body to strengthen integrity and prevent corruption. This certainly seems good to us to be a step forward in the fight against this harmful social phenomenon. It is also interesting to find a solution that in some ways strengthens the role of individuals and institutions, particularly civil society, NGOs and the media, in strengthening integrity and transparency, and in preventing corruption and other illegalities in the public sector. We will agree that these institutions can certainly be - and I am sure that in the future too - they will play an extremely important role. Both civil society, the non-governmental sphere and the media are an important part in preventing corruption. In this sense, it seems reasonable and good that we give a certain higher value to this and that in no way can we say that this anti-corruption lie is ever stronger than it was, I will say, in a rather unusual way is shown in those who show this solution to the involvement of civil society, non-governmental spheres and the media in preventing corruption as shown in this way. The chapter on lobbying, which is a novelty, is again highlighted in the Zares Group. For the first time in Slovenia, we will introduce this novelty into the legal order and thereby arrange for the registration of lobbyists, which is not available at the moment, their rights and obligations, the supervision of their work, sanctions for violations committed in lobbying. I do not know why so much opposition to this solution, because many countries have already introduced this into their legal order and have found that it has a significant positive effect. Lobbying and lobbying are a phenomenon that is expressed both in the desired and undesirable content and in the forms of appearance that all modern political systems want to regulate and put into the legal order in some way, to control, sanction and make it more transparent. Perhaps those who oppose it do not like the matter because they would like the fog of lobbying to continue. If we just remember what was going on and what lobbying was like in the case of the acquisition of patriots, then I think that the matter at a number of points would be different if those lobbyists had to report their activity properly and would already know exactly who is lobbying for some business. I think it is somehow clear why some options oppose such solutions. Finally, perhaps we can even guess that they want to continue, I will say, to be close to these sources of both decision-making and certain financial effects that such hidden lobbying gives and where certain synergies between lobbyists and individual political options occur. As a result, we believe that the proposal for a law before us in the third reading is a good one. In the Group of Members, we will really support the proposal for a law, because we believe that the law sets new standards, is progress, is the upgrade of the current solutions regarding the fight against corruption and the unfair action of individuals, and in particular of the officials in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Already in the second reading of this law, we have said in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we see the draft law on integrity and the prevention of corruption as a starting point for regulating this content. However, we believe that there is too much confusion and lack of transparency to support the proposal in this form. Evidently, it was those who said that the marriage was too hasty because of the various invitations and so forth and the adoption of the law was clearly on the way. The fact is that members of the Slovenian People's Party also support the more difficult after the fight against corruption, the regulation of the so-called anti-corruption commission and, of course, the legal regime of lobbying. But we are sure that all of this does not belong to the same law. Lobbing is certainly so difficult and in many ways intertwined that it is a matter of law. It would probably also be necessary to have a broader discussion only on the topic of lobbying before we regulate the matter in a normative manner, but obviously the coalition has no interest in making a good point and aligning the content with the profession. As we said last week at the second reading of the law, we are also concerned about the opinion of the Council of Justice, whose representatives have argued that the proposed law cannot be supported in its established form. Most likely, they too were hoping for changes, and it would be interesting to see what their views are today. We will also not undermine the proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because it provides for the appointment and supervision of the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission and also for provisions relating to individuals of private law. There are also incomplete solutions regarding mayors and the mayors and their participation and the possibility of supervision in public funds, public enterprises and so on. Interesting is the tendency of the applicants to, act, mayor or vice-martial do not have the opportunity to participate in the supervision of a company owned by the municipality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore do not believe that the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption has not been put in the framework it belongs to, and therefore we do not intend to support it, because we want to finally get a really good and effective anti-corruption law in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. We still have a third consideration of the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. In the DeSUS Group, we still support the bill in principle, and we are as skeptical as most of us here as regards the vagueness of the content of Article 27 as well as the amendment to this Article. Before the decision is taken, we will consult with the DeSUS Group on a substantive basis. As we have already said at the previous meeting, we support the proposal for a law, as we estimate it will bring good solutions, which will also in practice help to reduce corruption in Slovenia and to increase the number of detected and sanctioned cases of corruption, as the law provides greater protection for reporting corruption. With this bill, the State should ensure that employees and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner. Let me first touch on the Commission's composition to prevent corruption. The proposal defines the Commission as an independent and independent state authority. Instead of the five so far, it will be composed of three officials - the President and two of his deputies. They will be appointed by the President of the Republic on the basis of a proposal of suitable candidates prepared by the Special Election Commission. The latter will be appointed by the Government, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission of the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice and the Council of Officials. As yet, the Commission will continue to draw up and inform the public on the principled opinions. However, the news is that the draft amendment will before that be sent to the opinion of the person or organisation concerned, who will have the option of a response report, which, according to our assessment, is a very appropriate provision, since according to the applicable law, a person or organisation is treated in a subordinate position because it cannot defend itself against charges. One of the novelties in the law is also the provisions on lobbying. The lobbyists will have to register what the anti-corruption commission will do. Penalties are provided for infringements of lobbyists, including the withdrawal of licences and the prohibition of lobbying. As an important novelty, we can lay down the provision that all those who enter into public sector contracts for services or purchases will necessarily have to include an anti-corruption clause. As it has already been said, the law is intended to regulate the protection of corruption applicants, which we particularly welcome in the DeSUS Group, because we believe that this protection of people who see possible corruption will encourage a report of suspicious events without fear of their own security. We also welcome a new chapter on conflict of interest, in which, under the threat of sanctions, no longer is allowed to involve anyone who has a private interest in this process. The news is also a reduction in the share of officials in companies, from 20% to 5%, subject to operating restrictions and the ban on business applies for a further year after the end of the service. There are also new provisions regarding the prohibition of return to the State after the completion of work in another function, for example as a representative of any legal person. In the DeSUS Group, we want the bill before us to truly bring good solutions, more effective detection of corruption, more transparent functioning of officials and at the same time enhance the public sector's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! I'll be shorter. Most of all, we have heard everything about why marriage is good and more about why marriage is bad. In Slovenia, there is a clear need to adopt a regulation that will fully and thoroughly regulate the fight against corruption. Clearly, the objectives and purposes of the bill are welcome. Finally, the diction of individual articles also coincides with what the Slovenian National Party's Group has been taking for a long time. Undoubtedly, we support the current directive of Article 27 of the bill, which defines the prohibition of membership and activity. The proposed law should therefore respond to the actual social needs to strengthen the integrity and transparency of public authorities and to effectively prevent corruption. However, despite the well-intentioned orientation of the proposal and the excellent starting points, individual articles may be disputed, particularly with regard to the sensitive matter to which they relate. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, one such is undoubtedly Article 9 of the draft law, which provides for the appointment of a commission in its sixth paragraph and gives the power to appoint its President and Vice-President of the Republic. We further criticise the sixth paragraph of Article 7, which gives the President of the Commission and his deputy the opportunity to appoint him twice in a row. In the light of the criticism expressed above, we cannot support the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will majority support the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, as well as the amendments tabled by the coalition. The law builds on and transparently complements the area of prevention, detection and analysis of corruption. The main objective of the proposed Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is to ensure that staff and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner. The aim of the law is also to promote the fair and transparent behaviour of public servants and the good practices of all those who are part of the decision-making process. The law establishes the necessary conditions for the implementation of constitutional principles, such as the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of the division of power, the principle of proportionality in the exercise and exercise of rights, the principle of equality before the law and the principle of legal certainty. In its decision, the Constitutional Court also stressed that the prevention of corruption stems from the very foundations of the rule of law. As such, corruption threatens democracy, the rule of law, social order and social peace, and last but not least, the confidence of people in the rule of law and the social state. The new improvements and solutions introduced in the law thus further strengthen the rule of law. Since 2000, Slovenia has adopted a series of documents since the report of the Anti-Corruption Group of States to the Council of Europe and has established an independent body to prevent corruption and coordinate anti-corruption activities. The Council of Europe, the European Union and the United Nations praised all progress in preventing corruption. More than that, Slovenian solutions have become a model for a whole range of European countries, in particular in Southeast Europe. After this period and the good practice recognised by the above-mentioned international organisations, it is time to improve and upgrade, in line with the changes, the area of prevention and detection of corruption. Firstly, the proposed law introduces a series of solutions that go beyond the classic concept of preventing corruption and other social hazards. Strengthened powers and powers of the reformed Commission as an independent and independent state authority with the objective and tasks of strengthening integrity and preventing corruption shall ensure that institutions and individuals, with the expertise of the Commission, actively contribute to preventing and in particular addressing the causes of corruption and other illegal practices in the wider and narrower public sector at national and local level. As has already been said, with up-to-date legal solutions, comprehensive and systematic anti-corruption prevention is regulated in a way that determines the competence, methods and measures of the Commission in strengthening the integrity and transparency of public functions and in the exercise of public authority. First of all, it requires and introduces effective protection for reporting agents of corruption and, as is new in the law, it is a lobbying area where supervision and professional and ethical activities of lobbyists are introduced. The law also defines the development and implementation of integrity plans as assistance in the implementation of the law and the anti-corruption strategy of individual state and local authorities, the limitation and exercise of conflict interests, the transparency of receiving gifts and the control of property status, the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. The key novelties of the law, in addition to improving and modernising the system of detection and prevention of corruption, are in the determination of an independent and independent state authority, including in the determination of control over these authorities to be held by the National Assembly and the provisions on lobbying. The new law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is also needed for the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This bill follows the provisions of the Convention, and we will become members of the OECD this year, members of the family of the most developed 30 countries, and recommendations formulated by Member States in the fight against unfair behaviour of public authorities and corruption are fully taken into account in the proposal for a law. And last but not least, here is the Constitutional Court's decision against the law, which annulled many of the articles of a fairly modern law in 2004, when an independent anti-corruption body was established. Everything mentioned in the bill is amended, improved and upgraded. This law seeks to go beyond the classic designation of corruption and to strengthen preventive action in the area of corruption, both in the field of public procurement and in the field of decision-making. Control and prevention mechanisms shall be established to prevent abuse. If I finish. The proposed law is more comprehensive and balanced in ensuring a high level of efficiency in preventing and detecting corruption, enhancing transparency, the integrity of the public sector. All of these are the basic conditions for the legitimate, effective, transparent, prudent and fair functioning of the State as a public service. The law answers properly and regulates the problems of modern times. Both we and the public in the Slovenian political space perceive a lot of unresolved social issues in the area of anti-corruption. The result is not least a reduction in confidence in political parties, political authorities, parliament and the government, which is declining year after year. This is a call for change and a system-wide regulation of this area, for it is precisely a place where policy is designed and made decisions where public funds are used for various purposes. This affects the lives of citizens and citizens and it is therefore primarily the responsibility of the Government and Parliament to ensure systemic conditions through the open and transparent operation of public authorities with a view to gaining a higher level of confidence of citizens and citizens in the work of the institutions and bodies of the State. That is why, of course, we will support the law in the House of Members, as well as the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Member Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Franz Puksich. [[So do I.]] Matjaž Zanoškar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Madam Minister, colleague and colleague. As already stated in the introductory explanation of the DeSUS Group, in principle we support the law because we think that corruption is that negative thing, a negative phenomenon in every society, including ours, which needs to be given a lot of attention, to define certain things in the law so that we can effectively fight corruption. We therefore welcome all or accept all of these provisions, such as lobbyists, where it comes to legalisation and the normative regulation of this area, such as the establishment of a commission, as is last but not least the protection of the applicant, and everything else. However, as stated at the outset, we are still very skeptical about the 27th article, which we believe should be further explained before the vote, in order to convince us and to remove all doubts about the well-intention of this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Zanoskar. Mr. Victory Jelinčič. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As far as I understand, Mr Vice-President, we are discussing the amendment to Article 27 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u26	It's a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u27	I can then say in the general debate that in principle I support the whole law, especially because I think it is imperative that the Commission's role to prevent corruption be finally regulated, so that it can also have those powers that are essential. [[....]] In particular, the whole public sector also gets control in terms of monitoring the integrity of public servants. Indeed, the fact is that, to put it this way, officials are already heavily controlled and not too much – of course, not to be misunderstood – and I think that, in particular, the field of work of public servants, who are often under pressure to act, decide, make decisions that they are obliged to make, is under pressure from different, including lobbyists. Not to mention that we have many cases where public servants are also at risk of corruption. Therefore, this law, I am sure, will give the Commission to prevent corruption and, of course, also to individual bodies within municipal administrations and other public authorities the opportunity to make an integrity plan and to verify which employees are exposed to such opportunities, and therefore they will have to take into account in their work the additional rules of fair and correct conduct, in particular by public means. In Article 27, I would say: I am sure that the doctrine of the amendment is unclear. There will certainly be very different interpretations of this after the law has been enforced. Of course, I cannot agree with the fact that in local communities officials will not be able to keep up with the work of public institutions and public enterprises. I agree with this, knowing that non-professional officials cannot at the same time be directors of public institutions or public enterprises. I think that this is very wrong – what is happening now – by even explaining that they could still be, say, municipal councilors also principals of primary schools, kindergartens, libraries, public utilities, etc., while specifically officials such as mayors, saints, etc. are not supposed to be members of the supervisory boards of public companies and the boards of public institutions. I believe that this is a matter of a significant delay in control, of control, of the operations of these public companies and of public institutions. We know that because of poor supervision, poor review of the functioning of the management of these public entities also leads to abuse. The fact is that with so many congregations, many things simply disappear from control, and that is why I think we should – but well, we will see this when the law begins to be implemented. However, I do not think that it is as well as is now envisaged or as is now stated in the article and as is stated in the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Respectable present. I am glad that this law is on the agenda, that it has been prepared by the Minister from my party, who also bears the name of New Policy, because it seems to me that in the third millennium we will answer the question of what we think, what we would like politics to be. Is what politics has been so far, what we want to be in the future, whether it is still faithful to its name, its original, its original Greek meaning, or anything else in modern times. I think it's probably every single one of us who ran and ran a campaign when he met a potential voter who asked him, "What are you going to get for me after you're there if I love you?" And to be a fair answer to each of us: "Nothing. I'll make sure you have the same chances as everyone else." And that's it. So I think we should start at some point and cut. I am not saying that all the solutions in the law are ideal, this will only be demonstrated over time, but it is essential to set up one new paradigm of relations between citizens and their representatives, common property and its management. I am confident that this law will provide some better answers than ours so far, to the eternal dilemma of who will oversee the overseers. It seems interesting, however, that when this law is passed, the question of who will lobby for lobbyists is also raised; whether it is right to regulate their activities in this law, or not. I'm sure it's not a bad solution, it's a good one. I think that lobbyists will lobby for something else to be done about their activities – and many others will find themselves, but that this is not the reason why they would reject this law at this stage. I think it's right to confirm it, it will bring, I'm sure, positive effects. Just as our perception of policy will change in practice, this law will probably change. The first step is [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] However, I believe that this will not make them any less successful and that they are still needed. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I will not support this law alone, not because I would not want to finally step on those who are working corruptly and clientalistly, but especially because I believe that this law will not, in fact, prevent corruption and customerism. Not only that! I do not think that this law leads in a direction where we act more transparently in this area. I believe that because of some of the bad solutions within this law, it will also protect those close to the circle of the President of the State and the left political options; of course, if these people act corruptly and clientalistly. I cannot support this law alone because there has been a very poorly drafted law in the parliamentary procedure; it has 90 articles; we have 95 amendments to these articles; more than half of these were amendments from the coalition, which also shows, of course, how uncoordinated politics is within coalition parties or at government level. I have no objection to discussing better solutions during the debate alone; this is more than good; even in democracy, this is what is best: to discuss where the best solutions are, but in this case we have received a law that has only received 95 amendments, and I think that the ministry could at this point prepare a better law and send it to the National Assembly without these 95 amendments, most of which were coalition. I will also not support this law because, unfortunately, not a single amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party has been adopted, but even though in my view, at least in that key article of the 9th, I would improve the law and make a guardian for whom it is called the Head of the Anti-Corruption Commission and who it is called the Vice-Presidents. We are therefore talking about Article 9 of the Law, which refers to the anti-corruption commission or the appointment of an anti-corruption commission. In the second reading of the law, when we discussed the amendments last week, I have obviously raised a wave of outbreaks on the part of the coalition Members, mainly by my fellow Members, only because I dared to say a few critical words about the President of the State; not with regard to the institution of the President of the State, but at the expense of the President of the State. Even today, I am firmly behind the words, and I am convinced that if we vote on this law and actually the President of the State will be the one who will have a hand over who will lead the anti-corruption commission and who will be its deputies – given that we know how narrowly the country's president is. This is evident through the many acts we have witnessed in the past year, even with the support of one of the coalition parties or the President – I am speaking of course about Mr Golobic, when the President of the country made himself clear in his defence and protected him. This, in my view, suggests that this body, if actually appointed by the President of the State, will not be able to act independently. And unfortunately, you will not convince me that the President of the State, who is a party-defined country, will always prove to me that he will appoint someone to this place who will act on the basis of expertise and appropriateness. I believe that then, at the head of such a commission, there will be a person who will, above all, be politically compatible and belonging to him and also to coalition parties. I am sure that then people who might be involved in corruption and customerism will not be persecuted, say those people who are close to the circle of the president of the country or the left political parties. Let us see what has been written by the largest coalition party to the Social Democrats in its programme on internal affairs and also on corruption and clientism. They state that "we need a more effective police force as well as an independent anti-corruption commission." This is said by a party of Social Democrats. So if we look at this logic, then we can see that we were actually right in the opposition parties all the time. That, now that the anti-corruption commission has been led by Mr Kos, and still has, this anti-corruption commission has not been independent so far. That's why it has to be changed. This is the issue of Social Democrats, and of course we agree with it. It is also interesting that the LDS, in its programme, says that "it is still committed to improving the functioning of the rule of law, both in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. The focus of action is the fight against corruption, clientism, crime of all kinds and abuse. This is particularly important in this regard: "and the independent functioning of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary must be ensured." Very interesting, if we put this on the real ground, is what's happening in the country right now. And given what the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, whose president is the interior minister, advocates, we ask ourselves what has happened to the National Investigation Office, where, according to the result we have witnessed – we have already repeated this several times, we have also shown through numbers – "corruption and clientelism have occurred. So where is this independent, or fight against corruption, against clientism, against crime of all kinds, and so on?Oh, my God! Let us also ask how the Minister of the Interior has been able to keep up for six hours and direct the investigation in the event of a bolmastifi. If this is an independent police force for you, then I don't know what an independent police force is. Let us also ask ourselves how the LDS represents an independent police at this time, if the Minister has just appointed the Director-General of the Police, who, by the way, was unable to wait until morning, came to the party of Minister Kresal when her interpretation was not voted on, and congratulated her on that. In short, I'm such an independent police force, I'm sorry, I can't imagine. That is why I believe that this law, as I said at the outset, will not in fact prevent corruption and clientism, but rather protect certain individuals within this society. Therefore, I believe that we must seriously consider Article 9 in particular to take into account the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which states that the Mandate-Election Commission should be the one who, through Members or then the National Assembly, appoints both the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the deputies. I think that this would be a better solution in this case and that is why, unless we unite and accept this, if not, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Whether we turn things around or move them, the fact is that corruption is simply not without politicians and politicians. And that is the whole point, and that is why I also understand some that they have problems when years and years in the National Assembly or where we are discussing this effective or ineffective fight against corruption. It is difficult to have a dialogue and an exchange of arguments with those who merely call the amendment an ideological monolith, but are themselves an explicit example in their deliberations of ideological monolithists. See, previous discussions have shown contradiction with Article 9 – now that it is proposed that the appointment be carried out by the President of the State and earlier carried out by this Mandate-Electorial Commission. The President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who was appointed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, was not right, was out of the wrong political option. If this is called by the President of the State, he will again be out of the wrong political option. I think there are some problems with understanding independence and independence, but that's their thing, they can do a seminar and they're pre-debate about it. I myself believe that it is in the public interest, and it has been for several years now that countering corruption must be more effective than it has been so far. It is, of course, right to move forward after seven years with the amendment of this law and to strengthen some of the competences of this independent and independent anti-corruption commission. And that's why I'm going to support this bill. For me, the most important things in this law are some other things, not those of human resources. For me, mandatory programmes or integrity plans are the most important in this law. Once these integrity plans are truly brought to life, and this will be the responsibility of all those who decide on public funds, there will, of course, be little chance or path to corruption. Last but not least, after these discussions in recent years, I personally believe that much of the criticism that has been expressed by the current opposition and in the previous term of office is, in some ways, also justified in this proposal for a law, particularly on the basis that this commission has been a toothless tiger so far. In short, I will support this bill myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. The Franc of Žnidarski will discuss it. Bo? I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that it is time for us to adopt this law, because there is no secret that there is corruption in our country, that there is too much of it, and it is high time for it to be plagued in one way or another. I am sure that this commission will act independently, not considering that it would appoint a president or propose a president of the country. In doing so, of course, the suggestion that the Commission will act on the basis of current policy is unfounded. This suggestion, of course, is based on the belief that the President of the State is not the right one; but this is the problem of those who think so, not all those who respect the institution of President and Mr Türk, who occupy it, because when it comes to the positions and functions proposed by the President of the country, he has been properly debated and consulted with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and very, I can say, carefully and thoughtfully proposing candidates, and I believe that this will be the case as well. Therefore, the premeditated evidence is that everything will be wrong there, in my firm belief, unwarranted and, of course, unjustifiable. It is also impossible to judge in advance how the Commission will act. It is likely that practice will very soon show its relation to the powers it will have under the law, but I believe it is time for this to be proven in practice by supporting the law to support the coalition amendments, which were largely prepared for the sake of nomotechnics and could make less important comments from the Legislative and Legal Service to an individual article. And I reiterate that, in this sense, it is clear that there is a poorly prepared law, that the essence of this observation is that the law-law service of the Government has not carefully reviewed the law, and that our legal service has done so to the end and to the best of its quality. I do not have any problems myself, I do not accept the perceptions that fly to a prepared law in this sense, in particular as regards the substantive solutions and designations of the holders of these functions in the new commission, and I believe that the matter will produce positive results. And I support the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the bill, as I have also voted in all the procedures so far, and that we should have a law already in place. In the third reading, it is not possible to open new findings, but it is, of course, difficult to listen to the repeated assertion that we are all in principle against corruption, but when we get a pre-law on preventing corruption, we do not give support to this law. There may be some provision that everyone cannot agree with, but it is necessary to look at the whole and the law that we have before us, in my opinion, brings great news right in that chapter that the biggest opposition party opposes, that is the question of lobbying. How many times have we found that if we had the legal basis for defining lobbying and also the related regulations, it would be much easier. I am in favour of the rule of law and because corruption is one of the most dangerous things even in the opinion of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, I think it is right that politics approves this law and, as it is said, it has also been imposed by the Constitutional Court, which has established some of the irregularities of the law. Finally, we ratified the Convention on the Prevention of Corruption. These are all the reasons why I'm going to support this marriage. And I have no particular problems with Article 27, because I am confident that we will find sufficient solid explanations to address the existing or remaining uncertainties. With regard to Article 9 and the powers of the President of the State, the reference to some recent decisions of the President of the State for hair is now not supported by the current opposition, the former coalition, in the previous term also some of the other proposals of the President of the State – I mean, for example, the proposals of the Constitutional Judges – but it was very professional people, and I am ashamed that some in the National Assembly have not received support. As I say, I will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption alone will not be supported because it is essentially a law on the promotion of corruption, the legalisation of corruption and the concealment of corruption. It is very sad that the current Slovenian authorities so transparently show their political objectives, their connection to corruption in Slovenia and that they also avoid any persecution of those engaged in corruption. Although it is known that an important part of the Slovenian authorities is linked to the worst cases of corruption in Slovenia. It seems that this is not only in the classical field when it comes to the operation of the country with other entities, but after today's meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, it seems to me that this may also be the case with this elaborate arbitration agreement. Because the Slovenian representatives wrote, together with the Croatians, a week before the signing of the arbitration agreement, that the Croats would make a special statement saying that absolutely Croats do not recognise the territorial contact of Slovenia with the high seas and that they would jointly inform the United States of America and the Presidency of the European Union; ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done in the full consciousness of some Slovenian politicians – whether corruption is in the midst of corruption. And that was a hidden fact! It's a so-called covert reservation, a tarnished reservation, as Professor Pavlich said yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Mr Jerovšek, tomorrow will be all day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u41	I'm saying maybe it's corruption. Maybe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Tomorrow will be a whole day of arbitration agreement, and today is the law on corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u43	is in the middle of corruption, that Slovenian politicians have decided on something like this, to openly act against the country. [[...]] Maybe it's in the middle of corruption. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, there are also unacceptable solutions to this law. When we received this law on the Committee on Internal Policy to deal with this law, in this section, on the appointment of the leadership of the anti-corruption commission, which is supposed to be independent - and I agree that it should be, but the law does not provide - it was written for that special commission to elect candidates for these functions, as it is composed, and that one member to this committee is also appointed by the Commission for the supervision of the public finances of the National Assembly. That was too much! Then came the government amendments to delete the Commission for the supervision of public finances and amend it by calling it the National Assembly. So, the Commission for Public Finance Monitoring, which is a minority commission where the majority of the opposition is supposed to have an opposition, is at stake in determining the membership of the committee that will propose someone to the president. Then you fixed that decision for that commission to be sent to the office of the President of the Republic – no, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic! And here are the fingerprints of who wrote these articles, here are the fingerprints! Such strong governmental ambitions make it impossible for some or some ladies to trust in this matter. And I don't think – I don't understand the President of the Republic, we're friends from high school, I don't understand him being humiliated, his environment is creating laws like that, and he agrees to appoint himself in this segment – as was the suggestion to – the chief of police. This is unworthy for the President, he must be the one who proposes for those really most important functions, but not dealing with the dirty work. I don't understand why he agrees to such manipulation of his surroundings. And here we ask ourselves whether this attack and the devastation of Parliament is in some way linked to this matter, because it is a matter of evaluating Parliament, it was actually deliberately directed that they attacked a parliament that has not yet dealt with the Small Work Act. Why did not those who led students and students from behind direct a revolt against the government and other institutions? No, Parliament must be destroyed, its reputation reduced, its functions taken away, even though Parliament is every four years, more often than the President of the Republic, who is loved in general elections and should be given these powers. Well, I can't support such a marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Kampush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As I have already announced: then, I will support the marriage. In particular, today I cannot understand some of the debates and debaters, speaking so widely about the President of the State, how they respect him, how they appreciate him, how he is right, how good he is, and how I don't know anything else, and, on the other hand, they manipulate whether he is right now and that he is also among some of the proposals within the Committee. That's one thing. The other thing is, even now I am a member of the committee and things are relatively messy, so also with this bill and also with the amendments proposed by the coalition, things are being put in place and things are being sorted, and they are regulating the long-term type, which, of course, must be, so I decided to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good-bye to the Minister! Of course, the law on integrity in the public sector is probably not ideal, but it proves that it is a difficult issue and that corruption and the fight against corruption are every step, if it is so small, and that it goes in the right direction, desirable and welcome. I think that after the adoption of this law, the situation in society will be better, of course never, and never definitively and ideally, I am also pleased that those who oppose the law mention mainly only one article and one amendment which will be decisive in this story. This is a good sign and a further message that the matter of marriage, despite possible shortcomings, is not so bad and so hopeless. Several mentions were made of the completion and staffing of this Commission of the distinguished President of the State. Mr President, Dr Danilo Türk is directly elected, this privilege and honour, except for those of us who are also mayors in the National Assembly, he rarely has, and that this is what they associate and speak to those who have this courage or that confidence of the electorate and the electorate have never and never had, it seems to me that he is not entirely in place. If we look at the analysis back on what the President's proposals were and with what majority they were adopted, then I must say that the President we have is certainly not worthy of such a debate. He did his best and rarely any of the President's proposals, which required a broad and broad consensus in the National Assembly, was not accepted by all, so that, as far as this is concerned, I am a Member without concern, and I can only congratulate the President and his cabinet for what has been done properly, with broad support and, above all, the search for consensus. I think that's the way it is. As far as further solutions are concerned; surely there are many different issues at the local community level and on the one hand we weigh what saints, parishioners, mayors at the municipal level are allowed, which is not desirable. There is certainly a conflict of interest here and, on the other hand, all political options and parties come to the realization that the number of staff in the field of local communities, especially those of small or small, relatively low-cost communities, has been measured. Surely if a person in the municipal world has someone who is a director of a public institution or a school, he has an acquaintance on the one hand, who can upgrade and enrich the work and discussions in the municipal world, and on the other hand, we weigh the danger that the same person will be more than necessary, more than in the public interest, favored by the institution from which he comes. And this is certainly one of the possible conflicts that brings on one side good and on the other side bad solutions. There was also talk of lobbying. I agree and support that this area needs to be better regulated, that clear rules of the game should be laid down, especially when it comes to lobbying and channelling resources from the state budget or from enterprises that are majority state-owned, and that they are directed also for the needs of other state authorities. If some look at the statistics of enterprises, lobbyists representing them, for example, former or former politicians, from their scope and traffic, they see exactly when they were in power, I will say, their option is so-called. And it can be seen that a number of customers are also rewarding and sponsoring such personnel for credits. I also remember one case, when the Slovenian hockey team was in financial trouble before leaving for the World Cup and some lobbyist from political waters, in the slogans, "from the state of Telekom", provided the amount of the Hockey Connection, with a great effort obviously, amounting to 90,000 euros, and charged more than 20,000 euros for this effort and then went to court and sued. I am sure that the critics of this law will be able to find, clear, remove gaps in their own kind, because it seems unacceptable to me that the state-owned Telekom, who supports the national team, is unable to help someone for the immeasurable efforts of EUR 20,000. I think that state-owned companies should support the national team as much as possible without having their own pot attached to it by different creditors. That's what this is about. It is also the fact that we behave in a responsible manner within our own kinds, as far as corruption is concerned, but not that we repeatedly reward and compromise the parties and make them laugh in front of voters. I think that a law that is not ideal gives a key and an answer to a few questions that go in the right direction. We will certainly all have the opportunity and opportunity to monitor its effects in practice and to improve and upgrade the solution, such as, and coalition amendments, if they do, will have all my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. We are talking about the law on integrity and prevention of corruption. The quality of the debate should be the proposed law introducing solutions that go beyond the classic description of prevention of corruption and other socially dangerous phenomena and regulate the systematic prevention of corruption by providing for competences to strengthen the integrity and transparency of public functions also in the exercise of public authority. There is too much talk about the President of the State and his powers and about the institute itself, which certainly has the highest moral and political authority in the country. There is too much speculation about the appointments that must be acquired by the coalition in some way, even if they are called in the National Assembly and are proposed by the Commission for appointments, it will be no different if we discuss hours and hours, the conclusions will always be the same. There are too many fears arising from certain irregularities, and the coalition likes to offer them to the opposition, including millions of dollars. The interests of all of us must undoubtedly be of interest to the Commission to act in a public and independent manner. This will be achieved if we trust the institution with implementation. The law certainly does not offer what is expected to satisfy all options. However, a law such as this should support all parties, because only in this case would it be the one that would not leave a shadow of doubt and everyone would believe in the correctness of the Commission. As long as we just make sure who is right and who is wrong and the law is only adopted by a coalition majority, we cannot support the law for so long as it is acceptable only for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. The law brings some good solutions, I stress something, and the whole marriage is pretty bad. This fact, mentioned here by some colleagues, that the Law has 90 articles and that there were 95 amendments on these 90 articles, is a very bad certificate for the Ministry. Perhaps it would be right for the minister to tell me who was preparing this law, whether it was being prepared within the Ministry. If it was being prepared within the Ministry, then someone has to be pulled by the ears or sent to the road, or prepared by outside associates, which is bad again, to pay for outside coworkers for a squabble. It is good in this law that it reduces the number of officials from 5 to 3, but of course it is only sand in the eyes. In the last year, the number of employees doubled on the anti-corruption commission. Okay, that's not even that critical. Interestingly, they have moved to the new premises for which they are paying 37,000 euros a month, plus 24 employees of 37 000 euros a month or 444 thousand euros a year. This is the question of what happened when these premises were rented by the anti-corruption commission. I don't think this law brings in enough guards to prevent systemic corruption. Systemic corruption, however, is the most dangerous. This is not the kind of street corruption that must be condemned and fought in every way. Systemic corruption is something else; systemic corruption is the one that horrendously irritates the country, which is at the expense of taxpayers. The above-mentioned case of the NPU, I think it was eccentric corruption and clientism. We can also mention the zemonic agreement, and there are signs of corruption. It is almost impossible for these agreements to involve, in one way or another, not a certain policy, policy or policy option, which is, I am sure, not only small pieces, but more. These two cases show how dangerous corruption is, how corruption strikes the country at the expense of all taxpayers. It may be noted that during the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia slipped on two important scales. It's a press freedom scale, journalists with no borders and a Freedom House. That's not all. In the time of the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia also slipped on the "Transparency International" scale. And that's worrying. However, if this law prevents the continuation of Slovenia's slipway on this corruption index, measured by the International Organisation "Transparency International", then this law would contribute something, contribute something good to it. But this will only show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, although there are many concerns on the part of all parliamentary groups. Even though colleague Friday said that the number of amendments that have been tabled means how badly the marriage was prepared. I don't think that's exactly what this means; it can mean, but it doesn't necessarily. This means that the Ministry is so critical or that with some synergy the ideas and creativity of all the lawyers who participated in the debate and in the drafting of this law have come up with some more plentiful and better solutions. Certainly, however, it is true that the law itself of systemic corruption, as such, will not completely impede or prevent such corruption. Of course, the law has some levers that will try to do this, but we need to know that in a system of laws that would in some way prevent corruption, a type of other law, for example, the Public Procurement Act, as well as under-defined laws on the financing of those "soft" activities, through which, as you said, funds are so readily channelled. There was also talk of sponsoring, merceny, and donorism. The legislation of other countries, as well as ours, has little to do with how and how the funds are collected, how the other tax mechanisms are set in motion or not. In this way, the entire system of operation of the rule of law and the rule of law can, not be easily, but in some way prevents this corruption. However, I certainly cannot agree with the fact that suspicion and the sort of assessment that all those working in the public sphere are in such a position to influence and channel financial resources that they are corrupt. I'm sure most of them aren't, but those few cases that are, of course, kind of shed a bad light on everyone else. And in this segment and area, there are many people who can function very well and despite other legislation that is not sufficiently appropriate or not yet written at all, I think in particular in the area of sport and culture, but unfortunately there is no part of it. That is how I believe and hope that when we apply the law, we will find out and see what the real possibilities of its improvement are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Your Honor! First of all, I would like to thank everyone from the SD, in particular Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler, for fully confirming my initial warning that the law is extremely weak and full of ambiguous formulations and will bring an additional mess into the real system of the Republic of Slovenia. What exactly did the SD Member say? She said, "Yeah, we'll find enough solid explanations to somehow interpret this law later." You can check, that's what they said. People of God, that is to say, if you are talking about enough solid explanations, then you are admitting for yourselves that you are aware that these are not legally clear, uniform texts as should be in the legal system under the Slovenian Constitution. There are many articles that will cause problems. You still overlook one by yourself, knowingly or knowingly. This is the article that speaks of incompatibilities, because, as it is written down, it introduces the complete incompatibility of all professional functions, including parliamentary functions, with local level functions, the local community in the municipality, because the municipality is also another person of public law. Those who otherwise interpret what is said in this amendment, which you yourself have given and is already in the basic law, as you have adopted, of course they do not know what they are saying, or who is legally misleading. And the explanation of that article is contrary to the content, but those who are satisfied with the explanation have forgotten something: the explanation is not published in the Official Journal. The Official Journal shall publish the basic text and shall be subject to the provision, as set out, with all the scope, with all the ambiguity, with all the problems that will arise from this and from other provisions of this defective law. You mentioned lobbying. The law does touch the lobbying, but it's not completely regulated. Some aspects of lobbying are completely avoided, in particular it does not solve the problems that we face in the National Assembly daily, when, on the one hand, the President of the Government proposes the discharge of one of the ministers, because a Member has lobbied for one matter in the public interest, on the other hand, the same Prime Minister publicly praises that he has voted for one vote when it comes to something else and that it is material. Interesting. In the days when the government acts as an obvious collective lobbyist of Croatian interests, as one of the Croatian journalists confirmed yesterday, when he said that this agreement, as it is now on the table, is entirely in Croatian interest, and that for Slovenia the Drnovšek-Račan agreement was significantly better, gives it as an example, of course this is not something they could throw away with their left hand. Look, you're talking about ideological monolith, if it was said to be the law. It's not the law of ideological monolith. However, it establishes an ideological monolith in the appointment and composition of this commission, which will decide, already in the function of the first commission it proposes, in the function of appointment and, of course, the result cannot be different from this path. Who's in it? The government, the ruling majority in the National Assembly, participates in those civil society organisations in the fight against corruption that will be financed by this Commission itself and will therefore be financially dependent and, I say, institutionally corrupt. And then there's the Council of Justice, and you find the President of the State in the process. Now tell me where the opposition is.Oh, my God! She's not here! And that's why I'm talking about ideological monolith. And if what I told you about the President before didn't convince you, remember that when he stood in front of a cave in which there were 15,000 or more dead, because now the excavations have been stopped so that no whole tragedy and crime can be seen – because it is an indescribable crime, the worst crime since World War II, is not Srebrenica the worst, here are the worst crimes, on Slovenian soil, after World War II. And he said that these were second-class themes, which are then used mediaically. And then he turned his responsibility to the press for this statement, saying that in no way did they put it in any context. Which, by the way, says a lot about him. If you are talking about leading by example also in the direction of anti-corruption activity, because you can also find this in your explanations, remember that one minister of this government was caught in a public lie and the president of the country came and said that it was just a mistake. So when there's no truth, that's the problem. And if you're talking about independence, the problem is the SD, which has challenged Judge Shorely's judgment, which is actually an intervention in the independence of the second branch of power. The President of the country is not the second branch of power, he is a representative. And that's really what this is about. You're interested in power without responsibility. That is why you put everything on him because you want power without responsibility; and you want power without responsibility also after you have lost the voter's mandate in two years at the latest for your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In particular, the last sentence is part of the anti-corruption law. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. It is extremely difficult to believe in the work of the current government, the current president of the country, the current authorities, the people's cry: believe that they cannot be trusted, with the indication of a bunch of arguments already tabled at the second reading, today repeated, even though I have tried to deny you the arguments, Mr Grims, today of course this salva came again. I am a lawyer, but today I am not in a position to defend the arbitration agreement and all, absolutely, the inaccuracies that you have confessed to this agreement, to this government, to the President of the State. Today, I am in charge of reading the regulation, which I reiterate, Mr Grims, as I have done many times, is an extremely poor passenger for his enforcement and a fig tree in the pocket of an important part of the opposition, the fact that we accept it divided. Since the rule that limits – if it will, of course, continue to exist below, when it takes over your option again, there is no previous one. In 2006, you actually started by abolishing the anti-corruption commission, controlling the official's assets, that's all you were interested in, you trusted and assessed that this is all corruption is enough. You looked before the Slovenian people to be honest with the public authorities, but you wanted to end the independent body at the time. Only the request before the Constitutional Court prevented the anti-corruption commission and an important part of the anti-corruption law from being repealed. Your solutions offered by my predecessor were known as unconstitutional. You will tell me that this marriage is weak, impossible because of the number of amendments from which you have submitted more than 33! And hold what Mrs. Nigga says. To the last, we did not improve the text, nor did we listen to stakeholders affected by this law, for example, representatives of the interests of local communities. On the committee before We have dealt very comprehensively with all the institutes in the state councils. The councillors said that the law was extremely restrictive and in an important part interfered with the position of the authorities today, but they agreed with it unanimously because they knew that concentration of power and abuse was simply a major problem. In short, in the period when you were in power, your perception of vision, the conduct of all the branches of power in the Slovenian space, of course, was always significantly different from the political parties that today represent the ruling coalition. The division of power, the system of balance and brake is just a look for you, by acting you wanted to turn this system into the absolute power of the government, that is, the executive branch of power. You gave a look in the Slovenian space of determination, clarity. In your actions, you have done as I have already told you; the independent State Anti-Corruption Authority has been the object of your pogrom. The judiciary, which is the third branch of government, absolutely had to wait and wait for the new authorities to recognise their constitutional position as judicial officers. This is the second unconstitutional solution that's been waiting for us at the table. The first is the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of public functions, which is not only improved by this law, because we have consulted the anti-corruption commission throughout the year, with the people for officials, we have respected the OECD's urgent recommendations, which we will be members of in a few days' time. In order for you not to follow the recommendations, you just have to tell Slovenian people that you do not care about membership in this organisation, because in the field of anti-corruption you do not want to follow the OECD recommendations and integrate them into the systems whose moderator we are when we are in power. The next thing my predecessor and most of you have prepared is a bad, unconstitutional thing. It was just a position of officers. The guardian of human rights, who sets the mirror before every government – even to ours is critical, was also to yours. But you said, "but let's do it with wages and not providing the conditions for work, less money, etc. As a government, we have been shown that when we are in power, no one will resist us, not the judiciary, not the independent state authorities represented by the anti-corruption commission, the Ombudsman and someone else." Non-governmental organizations as civil society are garbage in our society! This is the second time you have discussed the issue of "the smoothness of the current authority with civil society". I apologize, as much as I have heard from civil society in the process of adopting resolutions on normative activities, where we wanted to open up the area of public lobbying, expression of interest and ensure the procedural standard of 30 to 60 days – see the archive. Although we had a public debate on this document, the NGO centre demanded once again that the current government clearly commit itself to meeting this procedural standard of public participation for 30 to 60 days. You wrote that down in the rules of procedure. You made it look like you were doing it — and you didn't do any of it. The Ombudsman left a report to the Government saying that this country must adopt a law ensuring that the public is constitutionally entitled to participate in the drafting of regulations before the Government. What is being done is what your authority did when it drafted the regulation, without any respect for its own rules of procedure, by the way, some are about important work, and major codifications of large rules have taken place in government and in front of the National Assembly. However, there was no crisis at the time, there was no need to take any necessary action, nothing was necessary to force the authorities at the time of the merger, to avoid careful detection of their policies with the public authorities and to at least show that it is a public opinion. No, that's what you're saying, "when we're in power, we're power." No judges, no independents, no one in this country means anything! Your majority in Parliament is the one who was the only and saving authority. And by doing so, but this is not European conduct, nor the conduct of the Member States, which belong to the 33rd party, where these standards have to be applied in general in the area where public funds are dealt with. And the Law on the Prevention of Corruption – and also the Law on Public Servants, by the way, has failed twice in the Constitutional Court because of the politicisation you have extended absolutely due to the division of political spoils, i.e. the division of functions as low as possible in the hierarchy, where no professional argument has been maintained and there has been no need for political compatibility with officials in positions where you have made changes. So my predecessor is in the five cases that I now listed, so immeasurably written the law as qualitatively as – and by the way, we write the laws in the house with the help of the anti-corruption commission and with the stakeholders, for outsiders as was the practice in the previous government, this government in an important part, unless it is really extremely difficult issues, there is no means because it has very, very difficult austerity measures. This is the decision of the Government, so that the outside co-workers were the people of the anti-corruption commission, who actually participated constructively and well at the time of the enforcement of this law. So, look. Now with the arguments forward, Mr Grimes. We give the appearance that we want to fight corruption and then we write down such very stupid and vague provisions that you cannot support this law. The last time I didn't get you to answer the diction that you've been probleming all the time, you said, "that we even have written down in the law, that the behavior that creates the appearance that this is such a stupid thing that you've never seen and nowhere else is written." Look – and then there is confusion. Don't hold it. In 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a code of conduct for public officials, previously adopted by the Council of Europe – you know which Member States of the Council of Europe – as a recommendation to all members of the Council of Europe. A copy of this Code, i.e. an international act, which we as members of this international institution in Article 20, is the following: "...is valid for the influences of others. A public servant may not allow himself to be placed in a position or create the appearance of being placed in a position of obligation to return the service to any person or legal person of public or private law. Nor should he behave in an official capacity or in a private life in such a way that he is susceptible to the inappropriate influence of others." It's got the whole world. You've told me for the fifth time, I've heard it for the fifth time, that with such impossibility and indeterminable standards, we have violated all the standards in the drafting of legislation. In this area, which is extremely sensitive – but here with the debaters I can agree – where we limit our own power of power, we want the officials to have things clearly written down. But this is an internationally used dictatorship, because the line between conduct that is fair and right, the boundary between an act that is corrupt, and the appearance of a person's position in this act when it occurs and is not eliminated by a conflict of interest, gives the impression that a business that has been carried out in an entirely normal manner is under the weight of a private and public interest conflict that is united in the function of these two persons is extremely delicate. And then we have corruption, which is a crime, where the elements of the criminal code must now be fully fulfilled. So this argument of yours that this government seems to want to fight corruption, I tell you that you are misleading the Slovenian public. This government and this majority, with the adoption of regulations and solutions that are extremely strict towards public officials in all areas, wants to prevent systemic and individual corruption from occurring. Because we are committed to this in a coalition agreement. And not only do we create the appearance that we're going to do any of this, but also the incompatibilities of functions. Yes, it's a painful topic, Mr Grimes, you haven't been able to crack any of these nuts. Not one of them. Mr Virant says he would have, but most of them were never able to be gathered together. That's how you made it look like you'd do anything, but you didn't do anything. Systemic corruption, too. Systemic corruption that any minister without standards, norms, without the recommended rental price – something else. The rental of premises is in your policy, which my predecessor introduced through the real estate management law, and we have an orderly dispersed, not centralized, real estate management. We want to centralize this with difficult problems. Why? Because politicians, i.e. your ministers, and also ours now, are much more suited to the fact that the real estate management processes, the acquisition of suitable premises, the conclusion of rental contracts are carried out themselves. Therefore, you have failed to do centralisation and you have given the appearance that you are doing transparently, but with the system you have set up, in fact what colleague Friday said nicely that regulations can create an environment that prevents behaviour that can be problematic, or that regulations simply create the conduct of opaque, unclear operations of state authorities. And you have a fantastic property to repeat the same thing a hundred times, that people, of course, even think that some of it must believe, but all of it is one ordinary appearance and one ordinary deception of the Slovenian public. This regulation is so restrictive for public officials that we have been in the coalition for a long time suppressing the appropriateness of such solutions, believe me, because we are very self-restraint. But the statistics, which I explained in the introduction, explain that the number of applications, acts that are supposed to match the signs of corruption, rises from more than 200 in 2006 to over 1,000 in 2009. That the Commission to prevent corruption withdraws 230 cases from police officers to assess whether they have any signs of crime shows that the Slovenian public is becoming increasingly aware. And fortunately, since 2008, when the government has taken over, most of the Slovenian political public have been significantly more aware of self-restraint than the former government. KAS, however you laugh, means that current officials do not sit in supervisory boards, in official councils, are not members of management bodies. It was a practice with you! The division of electoral prey! We said on the first day : "No, competent professionals will exercise control and will be delegated to management authorities." KAS is an independent institution. Because even with us, it is sometimes not agreeable, because most of the staff in state-owned enterprises do not follow the coalition contract fully, because we said two; we will prevent the accumulation of political functions, because for reasons which are naturally highlighted by the professional public all the time, it is not hygienic, it creates the appearance of actual authority that it is itself, self-satisfaction, when it does everything, and not least when there is a accumulation of functions in which there is a conflict of interest in the functions itself, when you are at the same time the founder, controller, controller, regulator, following the recommendations of the OECD, this function needs to be very different. And that's where we've been demarcating our functions. Indeed, Mr Grims, you have rightly found that the incompatibilities of the parliamentary and mayoral functions are not regulated in this law and, of course, you are misleading when you say that Article 27 regulates this. Article 26 of the Act has the title "incompatibilities". And since Members and Members of the Coalition have clearly told the Slovenian public and promised that the issue of the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions will be settled by the end of the year – remember, this was not a appearance, this was a promise – article 26 is similar to that of the old anti-corruption law of 2004: a professional official must not perform a professional or other function, etc. Article 27, however, has another title - the prohibition of membership and activities. However, it is recommended that a member of the Supervisory Board be a member of the Board of Supervisors, whether he is a professional official representing the founder at a national or local level when exercising supervision when they are appointed management bodies. No! No! It's forbidden! Because as a regulator and as the founder, it has all the mechanisms to appoint professional competent supervisors representing its interests – the interests of the founder, I think, not the functionary – and the actual performance of all three functions is suddenly inconvenient because the conflict of interest is embedded in these functions. So this incompatibility will be settled by the end of the year. In view of the doubts raised as to whether the issue of the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions had led the government to the extensive interpretation of Article 27 into this Act, the answer is clear: no. Any constitutional court would also judge the content of the article through the title of the article, and this address is absolutely clear — the incompatibility of the functions is Article 26. The function is a parliamentary function and the function is the mayor's function. These are functions. This is not an organ membership. This is not membership in a person of public law, which the congregation of course is. So it's a delusion, and some of this deception has obviously been at the second reading of this law. All the solutions that are actually in this law, including lobbying. The lobbying is defined as a private contact of the spheres of interest with Members, Ministers, Mayors, Municipal Councillors. It will have to be written that this contact has occurred. It will have to be noted that nothing has been offered in this contact in order to establish an interest – one that has been presented. So those who will lobby will have to register and register lobbyists means transparency of business; transparency of business. Nothing in the marriage is vague about this part. It's very clear, obviously too much for you. Very clear. We're just gonna have to report it. Until now, lobbying could also be done by someone who went to a company as a functionary, and then with his own ministry actually affected the solutions — the ban for two years! We have also reduced the share that officials can operate with companies whose co-owners are themselves or family members. So far, 20% has been allowed, now it's only 5%. It is a requirement of all to be absolutely excluded in any process where there could be a conflict between private and public interest; this is an important novelty. And all this stuff that really restricts officials, us who are in power today. Those who have read the law very carefully know that marriage is good. Any argument for its non-acceptance that you are expressing today is legitimate, but it is unrealistic. The appointment by the President of the State, which was an important part of the second reading, after the constitution, is absolutely possible for the President of the State to appoint an individual official. And if we want to ensure independence from the Commission in order to prevent corruption, including from the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly, it is very appropriate to appoint it on a proposal from a Commission composed of various branches of government, the President of the State, since this is an extremely good journey to work, significantly better than has been regulated so far. It is also important that the National Assembly retains four important functions. Deception to the National Assembly is also a matter of deceiving. It will have full control over the Commission, once a year the Commission will have to report on its work, on its anti-corruption policy and propose to that Commission that the National Assembly propose improvements, such as resolutions or other laws governing the prevention of corruption. In fact, this law is too good — too good to be chewed up by all authorities. Amendments. As I have already said, Mr Peršak said that integrity plans, which are actually an assessment of the corruption exposure of an individual job in the municipalities, for example, either in hospitals or offices, are afraid that these persons will prepare an evaluation of "outsource" or that they will prepare it externally. We said it wasn't meant to be. Now, this is how it's supposed to be, so there were at least eight amendments, but they only improve the text. The Anti-Corruption Commission, together with associations of public law, for example, the Association of Municipalities, will draw up a draft of this integrity plan for all municipalities, as it will assess, in view of the jobs that occur in the municipalities, which jobs are most corruption-prone, together with the association. And in fact, the congregations will only present such a draft to their employees and command how to act in order to prevent undesirable acts, called dishonest or corrupt behavior. I am truly very sorry that the policy of this regulation, which concerns all of us who are in power at some point in time, is unable to reach consensus. The National Council, a representative of interests, has demonstrated that it is aware that the confidence of people in all kinds of authorities and institutions in the Republic of Slovenia is at such a low level that we need to make policy by our conduct, including by adopting regulations that systematically regulate the fight against corruption and the desire to be honest in the public sector, show that we are serious about this, that we do not want to create merely the appearance that we will report on assets, that reporting will be public, that we must do nothing but perform our functions, etc. These are major failures according to a standard that is now significantly broader. Once again, I ask you: for a traveller to this law, the voices of the opposition would be of great importance, because people would see that politics may be aware, however, that self-restraint is the necessity for us to continue, regardless of which authorities people trust more.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I have six motions, but they will be very short. First of all, I propose, Mr President, that you give the floor to the legal service to explain from the legal point of view of the National Assembly to the proposer, Madam Minister, that 95 amendments, of which 65, to improve the legal text and to remove the most serious errors, do not prove that the legal text would be too good as we have just heard. Another time. I suggest you give her a warning because the attack is the best defense, the tactic she has just taken does not excuse her not to respond to the direct comments of Members and Members. I myself came from a statement made by a graduate lawyer, Mrs Bebler, who said that there would be a need for a sufficiently solid explanation for the implementation of this law and that the legal service would give an explanation of what would be going on. Will mandatory interpretations of this law or other legal procedures be necessary? The third proposal is that the legal service should be given the floor to explain one concept which is obviously not sufficiently understood. In view of the prevention of this law, while the fight against corruption is a matter of the Penal Code, which was adopted in the previous term, despite the consistent opposition of those who have power today, because you have feared long-standing deadlines and the effective prosecution of corruption and you know exactly why. I suggest that I give the floor to the legal service to explain to the Minister that this concept of "crawling with civil society", which she has read to me, was not used, and that there is a difference here from subjugation and destruction when something in civil society cannot be subordinated to what I have seen when I said that by this law you are establishing institutionalised corruption within one part of civil society. Then I propose that we give the floor to the legal service to explain to the Minister that the Code is not nearly the same as the law. The Code is a reference to the conduct of officials, public servants. The law, as written and valid, applies to all. This law would have a appearance that might be understandable for public servants when it comes to some conduct, as you mentioned earlier, but would have a concrete material impact here, in certain cases it could be a ban on certain activities, which could even result in irreparable material consequences for individuals. This is why two legal things are completely different and, of course, those who are equal are gravely misleading to the public. I therefore suggest that you follow all these procedural proposals and allow the legal service to pour us pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your proposals are not technically possible. You have seized, acquired, you have provided yourself with an additional 3 minutes, which your parliamentary group has chosen time. You have used it to assess which constitutes your substantive opposition or to regulate certain issues, and therefore I find that we have concluded the debate on the law in the third reading. As the amendments to Articles 9, 27 and 46 are tabled, I am also giving time to discuss these articles, of course, within the time given to individual parliamentary groups as announced. Does anyone want to discuss Article 9? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 9. I'm putting paragraph 27. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 27. I'm putting paragraph 46 into the debate. I do not see the proposal for a debate, so I am concluding the debate on articles, amendments and thus the debate on the proposal for a law. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – First of all, this is a proposal for a law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the group of 16 Members and Members, with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! The main objective of this law is to create a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. Help be given to those who really need it. The frequent exploitation and abuse of these systems must be prevented today. This law establishes a uniform definition of persons who are counted in addition to the applicant when it enforces the right to a social benefit, a single definition of income, a single definition of assets, sets out the order of application of social benefits, a single entry point and also establishes central records in this area. When it comes to establishing a set of eligible persons, it is based on the duty of survival as defined in the relevant laws. The determination of income is based on the principle that all incomes and benefits should be taken into account, except those allocated for a specific purpose or intended to cover specific needs. As a property to be taken into account in determining the material situation, the law provides for immovable property over the value of a suitable dwelling or housing, personal and other vehicles, watercraft, commercial or cooperative ownership, securities, cash in transactions accounts or other accounts, savings deposits and other cash following a client’s declaration, as well as other immovable property. The exercise of rights is carried out through the Centre for Social Work, so that individuals with one role can enforce all social transfers and thus receive one decision. In short, we are applying the principle of a single entry point. The law also establishes a central database of rights from public funds and data will be obtained either directly from the individual or from the authorised authorities in their databases. The Ministry must also establish a single information system that will support the functioning of this whole system. It is a so-called e-social project that will result in this system and then support the operation. In the context of the substantive solutions to the proposal of this law, I would mention in particular the four most important ones. Firstly, the children's allowance goes to new beneficiaries, children under the age of 18 or to adulthood, and students are given a higher child allowance. This supplement increases from 0 in the highest income class to €55 in the lowest income classes, according to existing child allowances. In doing so, I would like to point out that there has been a press error in the preparation of the material and that it is really about increasing this supplement in the seven income classes and not just in the four, as you got in the material and we will complement it accordingly. The other important social benefits are monetary social assistance and a social security allowance, as is the new regulation of the proposed law on social and social security benefits. This is about the new transfer of state pensions and social security benefits from the pension system, as well as benefits under the law governing the social protection of mentally and physically affected persons. It is important, however, that the basic amount of the minimum income from the current EUR 226 is increased to EUR 288,8. We are also re-ordering state scholarships in this law. The beneficiaries are students and students, the State Republic of Slovenia after the age of 18 years, with the basic part of the scholarship and the supplement based on the family of the grantors being merged into the basic part of the scholarship, which increases from 70 euros, at least to 190 euros, most depending on the income class. The entry threshold for access to the grant is declining, so now 64% of the net average wage per family member, while now coming from a minimum wage of 65% to 70%. In absolute terms, this means that the price to obtain a state grant of EUR 377 and EUR 399 will rise to EUR 591 per family member. With this, we will be able to provide 10,000 300 scholarships more for students, and 6,000 500 students, who are not 18 years old, will lose these scholarships. And the fourth major transfer is a reduced payment for kindergarten programs. A new scale has been created to enforce this subsidy on the basis of a scale for children's allowances, with parents paying from 0 for the lowest income categories up to 77% for the highest categories that are still paying for kindergarten, and so far this percentage has been 80%. These are the main novelties that this law brings. We are confident that this will bring about a substantial change in justice, as stated, in the allocation of social transfers and that they will come to the right place, more than they have been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Robert Hrovat will take a position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree, given the current situation in the country, that a more effective social transfer policy should be ensured and that minimum levels of social security should be re-defined and its levels set at a level that will ensure a decent life. We also agree that there is a need to provide some single entry points into the social assistance system and to establish uniform records of all aid received by an individual. Of course, the path to this goal can vary and if the path outlined by the current government constitutes a violation of current rights and a reduction in the social level of people who are already at the bottom of the social survival scale, then it must be openly said that such a way is not good. We hope that this is not the case and that the Government has indeed not taken those measures with a view to violating rights, but to creating a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. A more transparent and simpler system of social transfers could make it possible for those who really need it to receive assistance, and today it will prevent frequent exploitation – preventing the accumulation of social rights and abolishing the system of related rights. Since the main objective of this law is to ensure a more efficient and fair policy for the allocation of social transfers, the adoption of the law should also ensure fair allocation of rights from public funds, simplification of the system, greater transparency and efficiency and less abuse. In any case, the proposed law will create the basis for achieving these objectives, and there will be a lot of work to be done in the Government's policy of promoting or increasing jobs, as we do not know how the incentives for employment, which are heard to come from the adoption of this law, would look in practice. In doing so, I would also point out the dilemma of abolishing a child supplement after the age of 18, as there is great doubt in the proposed option solution, which would create a gap in this social transfer compensation by correcting the state scholarship system. It is positive to think about the height of the child supplement according to the age or status of the student, but we do not see so much positive in the abolition of child supplements after 18 years, since the arguments that the state scholarship will somehow cover the difference simply do not convince us. However, it is probably entirely justified that students and students also oppose this, since the State grant is only the last place of a specific order for the enforcement of monetary benefits in the light of the proposed amendment to the legislation, which has defined the following order: first, children's allowance, financial social assistance, a protective allowance and lastly, a state scholarship. For this reason, we propose that the Government resolve this dilemma more appropriately than is proposed. In principle, however, we support the law itself, of course in the sense that, as stated at the outset, this will not mean a reduction in current rights and a reduction in the social status of people who are already on the verge of survival and must be helped by the state with social transfers to somehow survive with families from month to month. Let me now touch on a few specific points in the bill. First, I'd like to say a few words about income and property. So the adoption of marriage is not only meaningful, but it is also welcome. The proposed version of the law, despite good intentions, brings many unknowns and imperfections. Calculations are missing, simulations allowing comparisons between the existing and the new systems. It is unacceptable that the proposal for a law is based again on income alone and that the consideration of property remains incomplete. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, if a person owns property and this property generates tax revenue, the property must not be taken into account. Finally, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which also notes that there is an incomparability on one side of the social situation of a worker who receives only payment for the work done and does not have property, and on the other hand an employee who also owns property that brings additional income or profits, irrespective of the fact that it is taxed. So what comes out of this is that it is imperfection, and these conclusions call for answers, which is also intended for today's first debate. If I touch any more abuse. As the Ministry stated in its proposal for a law, the purpose of the law is to create a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. A more transparent and simpler system of social transfers will allow those who are really needed to receive assistance, and to this day it will prevent frequent exploitation and misuse of the system. It's written in the law. So it's a claim that the system is being exploited and abused today. Since this is enshrined in the law, I ask the minister how many of these violations and the abuse of the system are there? I'm sure you have accurate information because I think that, given that you've written this down in the law, that this is one of the reasons for implementing this law, you have to have this exact data prepared and you want to hear it. I'd like to touch on the children's allowances and the scholarships. Article 22 provides that the right to a child allowance shall be exercised by one parent or another person for a child up to the age of 18. However, Article 23 of the Law provides that state grants shall be granted to nationals who are over 18 years of age and who fulfil the conditions, with the average monthly income per family member not exceeding 84% of the net average salary per family member during the same period. This is strongly opposed by students and students. Also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want precise simulations to show to what extent the revised censorship will affect access to state scholarships and to what extent the abolition of the child supplement by the age of 26 or the state grant under the age of 18 will affect the socio-economic status of students or students. The answers must be clear and clear. We owe them to students and students, and we owe them primarily to their parents. What will the implementation of the law in practice look like? The proposal for a new regulation for recipients of social assistance and a protective allowance and a proposal establishing a single record at the social work centres shall transfer new tasks and new duties to these centres. There's nothing in the marriage that says how we're gonna deal with the personnel, how we're gonna handle the funds. I believe that this is not the subject of this law, but this should also be stated in the explanations. Finally, there is no specificity, no implementation of this law, and problems can be expected. At social work centres or social work centres, more and more tasks are being transferred and there are no additional jobs, unfortunately. At least that's the environment I come from. However, I think it is right that, within the framework of the Group's position, I also touch on the process of adopting new social legislation. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, swears to dialogue, discussion and consensus, this word of consensus we hear almost every day. I feel like he believes his own words. Why? We are witnessing once again the practice that there has been no convergence of union and government positions within the Economic and Social Council. More. The social partners in the Economic and Social Council were only aware of the pace of changes in social legislation. These laws have not been discussed in any more detail, except in order to be adopted by consensus. That's not what I'm saying, I'm speaking on the basis of a letter we received yesterday from one union headquarters, and these are the things that are copied from their letter. It's the same with pension reform. It was the same with a little bit of work. Students and students have already shown what they think about such a policy and because they have come before Parliament and what has happened is a clear signal especially to us who are enacting legislation – not so much to the government, but to us who are responsible for adopting legislation. We make the laws. I think it is time that we all think together and start adopting laws that will eventually be harmonised in the Economic and Social Council. In the previous term, no law went into procedure without such consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which, according to the assessment of the Zares Group - New Policy is more than welcome. The financial and economic crisis is sobering and it is necessary to take a position and choose a path that will bring social reforms to all in the age of technological progress and development of services that will facilitate and encourage changes in the labour market. Therefore, the content of the law, which, under uniform conditions and on the basis of uniform rules, regulates the field of social transfers and reduces the possibility of abuse, is certainly the right answer. It will enable the receiving of financial resources to those who actually need them. The acquisition and duplication of transfers based on different criteria enabled individuals, when applying subsidies, to have unduly high revenues and, on the other hand, to be eligible in the future, to be deprived of a number of them in the past. Some of those present may not agree at this time with the introduction of such major changes and would rather, in the short term, mitigate the difficulties that have arisen, but we are confident that today, in addition to short- and medium-term changes, we also need to think about long-term changes that will mitigate the resulting inequality in the future. That is why, in the Group of Representatives, we stressed the importance of quality of life when adopting the exit strategy, which should become the main indicator of the country's performance, not just the evaluation of gross social product. Such a way of thinking and greed for individual financial giants has led us to a situation from which the world has not yet fully evolved. It may be illustrated that profit or, if you would like, greed or death will be what will measure success and ensure balance and justice in this society. At the time of the adoption of the exit strategy, we stressed that 2010 should be a turning point, since the forecasts of economists on the phases of the financial and economic crisis were many times flawed or overly optimistic. The main indicators, such as a high unemployment rate, a large budget deficit and public debt, an unregulated labour market, point to the long-term crisis, giving us sufficient room for manoeuvre for changes that, on the one hand, will prevent and, on the other hand, reduce tensions that are being prevented in the first phase by just the proper implementation of social, pension and labour market policies. All of these components require a broader view of the changes prepared or already prepared by the Government. This does not merely mean following economic indicators, but we have political and perhaps social, social challenges ahead. The Slovenian economic model has proved to be underdeveloped, under-sustainable or under-sustainable. It is also important to draw attention to its social dimension. Therefore, the current policy of maintaining the status quo should be replaced by a policy of reform and restructuring, which my colleague, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, has already pointed out when adopting the exit strategy. The proposed law before us primarily means greater transparency and transparency of the social security system. In the Zares-New Policy Group, as we say, we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Preparation, and in particular for the implementation of the law. However, we are confident that we will have to look at the issue more broadly. I have previously pointed to technological development and to the development of services that the long-term employment, as we have known it to date, raises questions. 10 years ago, German sociologist Ülirch Beck, head of the department at Munich University, wrote: "The consequences of the success of technologically advanced capitalism is growing unemployment, which is increasingly difficult to attribute to the cycle economic crises, so we need to change economic expression. Economic growth is no longer an indicator of job creation and job creation is no longer an indicator of employment. Employment is no longer an indicator of income and security." So it's about blowing up some of the items on which all of our 20-year thinking in this country may have been based. Slovenia, as a social state, as a welfare state, will have to respond faster and bolder with increased unemployment. The crisis and changed circumstances must become the foundation of new ideas and models that will open up the country, society and the economy for the 21st century. A new social consensus is needed to increase the vulnerability of the welfare state to new risks, increase the redistribution of income and redefine paid work as the only source of financial independence and social security. In the client Zares - The new policy we are focused on the future. The fundamental policy orientations in the field of social policy are therefore based on the fundamental need for the social state to be preserved and modernised by its institutions. Social services with which we increase social cohesion must become a pillar of social and economic development. The existing system of social transfers is complex and imprecise and therefore modernisation of the system is essential. The so-called single entry point for receiving all social transfers should be established and a single register of recipients should be implemented. We will do this by confirming the content of the law today, but by this, it is our assessment that this path will not be completed. In the long run, we are leaning towards the introduction of a universal core income to eliminate a multitude of transfers. This is a solution that will protect the population from the increased risk of poverty, which today is about 12%, and social exclusion. Equality, anti-discrimination and individualisation must form the basis of a new concept for regulating social transfers or taxes if you want and be based on the needs of individuals. Many of the controversy that arises during this debate is mainly based solely on budget outflows, which, with the innovation and restructuring of the Slovenian economy, we believe would become negligible. This is why I call on all present to think carefully about the possibilities for greater social inclusion and higher quality of life in Slovenian society. We have a law before us that eliminates the existing anomalies of the system of social transfers and the enforcement of subsidies. The social rights system introduces that single entry point. However, rights are linked to the determination of the material situation of individuals or households and are not based on social insurance. The most important solution for users, according to our assessment, is that an individual at the competent social work centre will only play one role in obtaining any of the 11 in the law-ordered rights to monetary benefits, subsidies and reduced payments. It is therefore a procedural law which regulates the area of social transfers at systemic level. The law is financially neutral and does not require additional budgetary resources. While it is true that certain calculations might be welcome in this assessment for how many more scholarships there will be, for how many fewer children's allowances there will be, the state does not devote to solving this social problem by implementing this law any less than it has done so far. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the law. Let me conclude by thinking that to manage new risks, to ensure social security and to involve all citizens, new approaches and radical ideas are needed in social policy in the 21st century. I just hope we can work them together. Of course, in radical ideas, I don’t mean the event that was mentioned for this speech today, which unfortunately only changed – and only temporarily – the front of this house. I think radical ideas in this house should change something other than the front or its interior. Of course, I am talking about thoughtfulness, and I mentioned earlier how it might be possible to think about social security in the future. It is, of course, illustrated that it will also be expected that, on the basis of some inertia and habits, not just 20 years old, even some decades earlier, it will be possible to reach a full consensus on the laws relating to the enforcement of social policy. I think it's illusory to expect and think that the laws you like are also good laws. Sometimes it is, but of course it isn't. In such radical changes as this law offers and in systemic solutions, which are different from those before, it is impossible to expect consensus to occur. The consensus that will emerge is likely not to be as comprehensive and perhaps not always as party-shared as it has been so far. The pension reform is probably one of these things that Members and Members will share not by the party line, but by the numbers in our ID card, by the single national home number or by the birth anniversary; and there is nothing wrong with it. This, of course, at least gives me the hope that solutions will be better for the future and systemically regulated, as is the one before us today. As we say, in our Group of Members, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. Colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposal for laws on the enforcement of rights from public funds, we ask the Slovenian People's Party's Group what the urgency of such an important issue is. The rights and provisions that have reached the age of 20 will be changed quickly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have considered the law in accordance with our belief that each individual has the right to expect and demand favor and assistance from society and that at the same time he has the duty to contribute to society in accordance with his or her options. The bill, as proposed along with the second law, will cut into the system of rights and thus cut into the most sensitive area of our society, into the social security of many citizens and citizens. The adoption of this law is linked to the law on social security benefits. Even more so, the two laws of today are linked and related to the envisaged pension reform. They are also partly linked to the Small Work Act, the Grant Scheme and the possibility of study, and the Family Benefits Act. They are also linked to changes in labour legislation and other reforms aimed at ensuring financial sustainability, economic growth and at maintaining social security. You could say mission impossible or even science fiction. Why? It is impossible to expect that the government will carry out such thorough cuts into the system without broad social consensus, without careful consideration and examination of the consequences. In particular, this, without a thorough calculation of the results of all the measures envisaged. All of this would have to be done, but it could be successful in the face of a patient social dialogue and a broader social consensus, when both the position and the opposition must reach an agreement and find acceptable solutions for the majority. Why, therefore, should laws be rushed and dealt with in an extraordinary session, without coordination with the social partners, without a wider public debate? It is not difficult to agree with the basic principles and the main objective of the law to ensure a more efficient and fair policy on the allocation of social transfers. This is what we have always called for in the Slovenian People's Party in all past times. There will certainly be less consensus in the debate on how changes will affect individuals and individual groups of affected citizens. In the SLS Group, we strongly agree that structural changes are necessary and necessary. We agree that it is necessary to prevent the accumulation of social benefits for those who use the system by playing with it and thus get more than those who work. In doing so, we note that we cannot do so because the Government says that it does not have accurate data on those who play the system. However, we must also be careful that the layers that have already borne the greatest burden in the past, both in the previous regime and in the time of transition, are not again affected by such thorough changes. This is a quiet majority who work hard and suffers from being unable to get on the road and demonstrate that they have by denying themselves jobs as craftsmen, entrepreneurs, working on the farm, in their company, taking care of their family, without social assistance, and at the age of age they do not even have a protective allowance and will even ask for help and become social supporters under the poverty threshold. We therefore stress that, despite support for the establishment of order in the field of social benefits, we will certainly not support and cannot agree with the abolition of the state pension, nor will we agree with the lower income for large families or the reduction of rights for disabled persons. State pension must remain what it is intended for, and should be an exception to the principle of the transfer of social measures from the pension register. The applicant submits that those beneficiaries who need a state pension for survival will increase this amount in the context of monetary social assistance and that the State will no longer provide funds to those who would otherwise fulfil the conditions for a state pension after the current regime, but who do not need the right to survive. What does that mean? This is a very flat-rate finding and claim and therefore may even be criminal. In the Group of Members, we ask what lies behind whether they will have to re-apply every year. What criteria will be used to determine this property? What criteria are justifiable for calculating income per family member, and how will property be identified? Will an old farmer or a craftsman have to sell a brothel to be entitled to a pension? Will they finally get the right to a protective allowance? Members of the SLS proposed a law months ago, which means in this mandate that in the new law the right to a protective allowance should also be recognised to farmers with the lowest pensions, and you rejected it by a majority. Will they have this right by means of a new law? Or is this government returning to us when farmers and craftsmen as individuals were considered enemies of society? State pension was then introduced primarily for farmers and craftsmen, for those who were not allowed or could be insured. By buying social peace in this way, we have opinions in the parliamentary group, we will not save the social treasury in the long term. Those who, by denying their place of employment and paying taxes, are by no means able to judge in the same basket as those who, by playing the system and by accumulation of social benefits or subsidies, can earn more than they would if they worked. For those and for those who accumulate social benefits, says the government does not have data on the number of offenders. Does the government, then, keep in mind changes or rumors? What will the actual effects be introduced in the news of the difference in the height of the child’s allowance according to the age or status of the child? In the Government's explanation, both social laws are linked to the starting points of pension reform, so in the SLS Group we expect all laws to be dealt with in parallel. Above all, we propose that the joint effects and consequences be thoroughly examined and that a joint dialogue, with an accurate presentation of what changes will mean for the individual layers of people and beneficiaries, be reached by the widest possible consensus in the patient dialogue prior to further consideration of the laws. However, it is also important to think very well about or through education and reorganisation to train social work centres to achieve the new tasks, although we support the introduction of one entry point in the social rights system in order to introduce a central register of rights and criteria for the duration of social threats. As global changes are at stake in a highly sensitive social area, we believe that an agreement on the solutions of all involved is necessary and we need to take enough time to think about it. Whether we will support the law at this first reading, we will decide in the SLS Group if we get the appropriate explanations and answers to the dilemmas put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, Secretary of State, Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The reform of the social system will obtain an epilogue through this law and the social welfare law, which points to a more effective social transfer policy in the light of the changed socio-economic conditions and also the need to adapt to the consequences of the crisis. The reform of the existing system of social transfers is also necessary due to the practice of finding inconsistencies, shortcomings and irregularities in the current system, which result in an unjustified accumulation of rights and abuses of the system, resulting in the destruction of the constitutional postulates of a social and fair state. Members of the DeSUS stand for a social policy based on the principles of justice, reciprocity and solidarity, while contributing significantly and positively to long-term sustainability. We therefore support the purpose of this law, which, under uniform conditions and on the basis of uniform rules, regulates the scope of public funds rights by making the proceeds and subsidies and social rights payments available to those who really need them. The applicable criteria and conditions and procedures for the acquisition and exercise of various social rights or transfers are so very different and scattered that it is simply not possible to say that such a system meets the basic objective that the social system in some modern, well-developed society and country should have. In the DeSUS Group, we have always sought that social policy to achieve its true purpose must be based on the concepts of the fair and actually justified material entitlement of the applicant or beneficiary. All too many today are stories of different content – and I will not update them because more or less we all know them – from which we can only extract one: the system of social transfers is exploited. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed arrangement brings all the necessary elements, which will allow all possible anomalies to be consistently prevented and eliminated in the future and that the system will operate in accordance with the principles of equitable distribution of public funds and the targeted targeting of funds. In view of the latter, certain rights are newly created, taking into account the purpose that each right must achieve and their prices, which are closer to a larger number of beneficiaries. The introduction of a uniform method of defining and identifying material situations means the unification of very different definitions and the impact of certain facts and circumstances on the application of a range of rights which constitute a social correction of the material situation of an individual in terms of social security. The unification will be carried out both with regard to the pool of persons to be taken into account, as well as with regard to the consideration of income and property, and the introduction of a net revenue-based principle. Therefore, for some, the final account of social transfers will also be significantly different from what it receives under the current regime. Many will feel that he is disadvantaged about something, given what he is receiving now, and others will get what they are not now. Regardless of how the beneficiaries understand the reform of the social system, it is essential for us, Members of the DeSUS, that the level of social transfers and protection do not diminish. To establish a uniform, more transparent, efficient and fair system of all rights from public resources that will serve their purpose more effectively. In the DeSUS Group, we are also aware that, irrespective of the premeditated regulation of an area of an anomaly of play, there will always be repeated. If I mention only one concrete possible case with regard to this law, this is certainly a non-realisation of income, for example, in the title of work. Due to the large extent of violations of labour law and the grey economy, the salary money that someone receives on hand, where an official lower salary is shown than the actual salary received, will not be recorded anywhere. As a result, his child will be entitled to receive or receive a higher child allowance or a scholarship from a neighbor whose father receives a real salary for work according to the officially shown. Therefore, it is not necessary to appeal to the Government and the competent authorities on this occasion for the necessary movements to take place in relation to the more consistent prevention of such abuses. The bill also establishes a single entry point, which means that individuals will add a single application to the full extent possible social rights. The decision-making body will also be uniform and a single decision is envisaged. Of course, such an approach also requires comprehensive information support and adequate databases, and it is clear that the implementation of the law will also strengthen the work of social work centres. Therefore, it is also up to them to decide on matters which are now in the domain of the local communities and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. In short, our assessment of the new single procedure and the place of enforcement of public funds rights is positive, as it is established both for the user and for the decision-making body of a simpler and more transparent system. Two rights are also excluded from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance or from its register, which, by their nature, constitute a social correction of the position of an individual. This will bring about the cleansing of the pension allowance of what it does not include in terms of the nature of the purpose of the right and its dependence on the payment of the contributions. State pension is suspended as such. Those beneficiaries who are in real need of a state pension today for survival will continue to be assisted by the State in the context of monetary social assistance. The amount for their survival may also increase substantially. However, the concept of a protective additive is also substantially changing. On this point, the next item on the agenda is being considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! With the proposed law on the exercise of rights from public resources by the proposer to the objective of creating and ensuring a just social state, we certainly agree and welcome in the Slovenian National Party any measure and proposal for a law that will ensure, or in any way contribute to, the implementation of, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia of the guaranteed provisions on the social state and rights related to social justice. Unfortunately, in the everyday reality of the exercise of this constitutional right, it is far from justly guaranteed. There are absurd anomalies in everyone's eyes, exploiting, abuse of the system of exploitation of rights from public funds, that is, taxpayers' money. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already pointed out several times the persistent abuse of the social security and assistance system in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the shortcomings of existing legislation in this area. We certainly hope that this proposal will provide at least a little more effective and fairer social transfer policy. It is therefore first of all the rights of monetary social assistance, children's allowance, protective allowance, state grants and so on, including other forms of subsidies and payment benefits. Of course, in practice, the implementation of the planned measures will not be as easy as it seems at first glance in the bill. We only hope that the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is aware of everyone on the other hand, with the implementation of the law of emerging problems and the opening of issues that sometimes cannot be anticipated in advance. In particular, it imposes this rather difficult and responsible work on social work centres and indirectly on some other bodies. To date, some Social Work Centres have not performed their tasks satisfactorily, and even more among the population have caused widespread dissatisfaction and observation in the implementation of existing laws, emerging injustices and abuses of the existing system. Individuals, as well as certain groups of the population, are making good use of the shortcomings of the existing system. They are already emptying the state budget and the resources of the Ministry of State. It is certainly necessary to establish a transparent and simple system for the implementation of social transfers that will prevent such abuses of the system and injustices within the system and also against those who finance such a system. The provision of social transfers must be based only on the actual, verified, verifiable, transparent, material position of the individual beneficiary and of his family. I believe that it will be possible to ensure and make use of such transparency of the actual material situation of socially disadvantaged individuals and families only by establishing a transparent central register, with the appropriate professional competence of staff employed at social work centres, as well as by strict consideration of all, for the exercise of the relevant, criteria or elements relevant to decision-making on social rights. Only in this way will we be able to prevent all the too obvious anomalies and injustices that prevail in this area. I hope that we will no longer be witnesses when many individuals arrive in front of a social work centre with a car worth up to 100,000 euros, however, on leasing, credit or on behalf of another relative or beneficial owner. On the other hand, there is no money, or it has been very entangled for those who really need such social assistance. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that the social work centres will truly ensure the fairness, order and consistent implementation of the law for all users. As legislators, we assign them a great deal of responsibility and responsibility, for they will decide on all legal rights that depend directly on the proven actual income and property position of the applicant or beneficiary and his family. Certainly in practice, this implementation is not so easy, as only obtaining some information and data can be a complex task and also sometimes a counter-opening of a number of other problems. We agree that the draft law sets out the key elements for determining the material situation of persons and related other persons to be meaningful, reasonable and able to ensure the effective implementation of the law to respect: firstly, the order of the exercise of rights; secondly, the uniform way of determining the material position of the applicant or the beneficiary's families, by establishing the marginal income for the right to financial assistance and others, depending on the material situation of the dependent rights. Also with the level of certain rights from public funds, procedures for the enforcement of rights, and last but not least by the introduction of a central register of social transfers. In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot, however, draw our attention to some very serious and well-founded comments and objections made by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which should certainly be considered and processed in further consideration of the bill. Let me mention just a few of them that we have also thoroughly worked on in our client. This is, for example, the non-reality of the envisaged deadline for the implementation of the law due to missing calculations or simulations to allow comparisons between the existing and the new system. And there is another very important need and necessity for the legal establishment of an inspection service that will oversee, of course, within the framework of its legal powers, beneficiaries or beneficiaries of financial assistance, subsidies and so on, that there will be no abuse. And there are also some good thoughts and comments in this contribution, which we also recommend that they be taken seriously at the Ministry and try to include in the provisions of the proposed law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, at first reading, we are considering two very important laws in the field of social protection for the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Proposal for a Law on Social Security Benefits, which are interconnected and interdependent. Before presenting my position on the proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public resources, I would like to stress in particular that in LDS, with the support of a free economic initiative, we also attach the same importance to the creation of a social state which, through its mechanisms, can effectively mitigate the consequences of the loss of employment and other unforeseen circumstances that may cause a person and family to suffer material hardships, whether disease, disability, dependence or other unfavourable circumstances. As we agree that the best social policy is a development policy, the country's actions must focus primarily on creating conditions for employment, modernisation, preserving existing jobs and opening up new ones that will provide a profit that will not yet require social assistance. Work must once again become a value, and good work and good work must be provided with solid and good wages. At the same time, the State must be socially sensitive to allow the disabled, the disabled and the elderly, who will never be able to provide for their own earnings, through aid and subsidies, a standard that will not be limited to a minimum of subsistence. The proposed legal solutions are therefore understood as strengthening a strong and just social state. The current situation in the field of social assistance and subsidies in the LDS – a similar opinion can be heard in the general public – is seen as not sufficiently transparent and weak, as individual social transfers and subsidies are the result of different rules and very often are not linked. Some financial assistance is thus granted by social work centres or by the State and others by local communities. In determining the material position of investors, the assets are sometimes taken into account, other aid does not take into account the assets or in a different form, sometimes calculations are made in net amounts other than gross amounts. Furthermore, certain social rights are not considered to be the income of an individual or a family and others are again considered to be income. It all means that there are no uniform rules with us, which can lead to the accumulation of social rights and their abuse, which is often confirmed by practice. The existing system, unfortunately, makes it possible to find the most favourable combinations and some gain more and others less, although the need for assistance can be reversed. One of the most obvious abuses to which the public strongly and loudly reminds us are subsidies for the payment of kindergartens, where it is very obvious that a family that does not pay or pays at minimum levels lives well, but their income, which in this case only counts, is low and the municipality has to grant them a subsidy. This creates dissatisfaction in local environments and is rightly requested and expected to regulate these areas. The current regulation also raises concerns that the circle of persons considered to be beneficiaries is not clear and uniformly defined in addition to the applicant. Therefore, a person may appear in an application for one right as a single person, elsewhere than a single parent’s family, and again elsewhere than an extramarital community. Since the procedures are carried out at different levels, it is impossible to verify the real situation, which is an additional disadvantage of the existing regime. Compilation of rights has another bad quality, and that is that people are not worth doing because social transfers earn more income than they are, for example, minimum wages. This is unacceptable both in the short term and in the long term for the country, and this is harmful for the individual, because when he does not enter the labour market for a few years, he is completely excluded from it and will be difficult to start work again. On the basis of the above in the LDS, we support the establishment of a clear and transparent social system, as we use tax money to provide social assistance and subsidies and we need to deal with it responsibly and carefully. We therefore agree in the Liberal Democracy with the bill and its main solutions, based on the following principles: the principle of uniformity of the exercise of rights from public funds and the principle of economics, the principle of equitable distribution of public funds and the principle of targeted targeting and the principle of the protection of human dignity. Among other solutions, we specifically point out a single entry point for the exercise of the right to all social transfers, as individuals with one role at the social work centre will be able to obtain any of those rights in the law if certain conditions are met. The Centre for Social Work will issue only one decision for the applicant, making the procedures easier. This will be possible in the e-social system established by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs together with the Ministry of Public Administration. In the e-social system, social work centres and the Ministry of Labour will be able to access up to 25 databases from which they will obtain data for their work. This, of course, means a great deal of responsibility in handling such amounts of data, as their incorrect or irresponsible use can lead to abuse and disclosure of personal data. As a liberal Democrat, let me put at least a little bit of a nuisance in this, although we are aware that it will only be possible to establish an effective information support system that will facilitate the work of employees and aid seekers who will no longer have to deliver all documents to the Centre for Social Work. In the LDS, we strongly support a uniform way of identifying the material situation, which is a condition for eligibility for social assistance and also a basis for a measure of aid. This means that uniformly defined persons who are counted in addition to the applicant will be identified when they exercise the right to specific social assistance. According to the new one, income will be defined in a uniform manner, which will be taken into account when determining the income position of an individual or family. We also strongly support the consideration of assets in determining the material situation of an individual and a family, as this way we can make a clear distinction between the recipients of the social assistance they really need and those who exploit the legal gaps and inconsistencies of state bodies. We also believe that the Ministry of Labour has properly arranged exceptions to the law, so that the property that is not necessary for survival is counted as income. As an example: housing area to a specific square, car above a certain value and so on. It is also important to establish an order of enforcement of aid that cannot be skipped and thus prevent a system of related rights. We agree with the solution set out in the proposal for a law that a child's allowance is granted up to the age of 18 in accordance with the definition of a child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and is primarily intended to raise, educate and support children in the family, so it is also logical that this right is counted in the income of an individual or family. The State will also definitively recognise that the costs for different ages of children vary, as evidenced by the different levels of the child allowance for younger children and pupils. In close connection with the change in the children's allowance, the application of a state scholarship for over 18 years of age who are studying, i.e. students and students. Of course, it would be great if we could afford to introduce a universal scholarship, but unfortunately in the current situation this is not feasible. In our view, however, the price of access to the right to a scholarship is high enough; it is about some less than 600 euros per family member per month, which means that it is not only young people in higher income classes who will be eligible for a state grant. In this way, a person in the first income class could receive €190 of a state scholarship, which then has many additions, such as distance from the place of education, to a permanent residence, demography of the place from which he comes, grades in school, study directions and so on. The highest grants could reach approximately €400. In the LDS, we believe that this is also an appropriate response of the country to student requirements for multiple and higher scholarships. The amount of money allocated to state scholarships will increase from the current €73 million to more than € 135 million. A larger number of state scholarships may also facilitate the decision to study young people in lower income classes, as this population of young people is increasingly showing that they are not going to study at all. This knowledge for a country with 2 million people with a limited intellectual pool poses a serious problem and a challenge for measures to improve this situation. There will probably be more to be done for them to convince them to continue the study. There are still many solutions in this law that are significantly different from the solutions that have been known to date, and they will certainly come across opposition from some. Every time things change a lot in the light of what they are, that's what they are. In line with local calls, for example, single parent families will be more closely replaced. Social work centres are given many new tasks and responsibilities by the law and will have considerable autonomy in their decision-making process, which, in our opinion, is based on the correct conclusion that local services know the best situation and will be able to judge the best solutions. Prior to the entry into force of the two laws we have on the table, there will be a need for human resources reinforcement of social work centres, as well as a clear agreement on the transition of workers from local communities and other state authorities under the responsibility of social work centres. Such an approach seems appropriate to us, as it would be unacceptable to hire new staff at a time of rationalisation and modernisation of the public sector. We therefore expect a positive agreement with those local communities that disagree with the transition of their staff. In doing so, we are confident that this will not prevent the enforcement of this law, which we believe will make it more transparent in the area of social transfers and subsidies, as well as establish the uniformity of the rules, while at the same time being more user-friendly. It is important to stress that this does not diminish rights. Some parts are redistributing, in particular the system will become more equitable and more clearly focused on the group of citizens who really need help. Such solutions will always be advocated in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, so we will support the law at first reading and propose and support further proposals that could improve the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Good-bye! In the introduction to the presentation of our parliamentary group's position on the draft law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, we would like to draw attention to the broader social context in which changes have been made in the area of social security and in particular to the systemic changes in which this law is placed. The current government has taken up a mandate under extremely difficult economic conditions. The first year of its mandate had to focus on ensuring the stability of the financial system and ensuring the social security of the people first affected by the crisis. The government has put a great deal of effort into maintaining jobs and keeping unemployment growth going. The latter was successful, as international data confirm that we are among the most successful countries of the European Union under this criterion. So far, measures in the social field have contributed to the preservation of relative prosperity and social peace. However, following the stabilisation of the situation, there is a period when reform measures need to ensure development and long-term prosperity. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the Government has the lion's share of responsibility for the preparation of structural reforms. The first set of reforms addressed in this area in the National Assembly is social protection reform. Today, this is how we deal with two draft laws in this area that regulate social transfers. The first is the bill on the enforcement of rights from public funds, and the second is the law on social security benefits. As it is said, marriages are related and are difficult to separate in their entirety, in particular the debate on them and their consequences. The main objective of the changes in the field of social transfers is to establish a system that is simple, transparent and fair. With the law, we want to achieve a better target for social transfers in order to ensure that those who really need them receive the appropriate assistance, while reducing the possibility of abuse. In order to fully achieve this objective, it will not only be enough to reform the social transfer system, but also to amend the law governing social protection activities, as it is also important to regulate the social transfer system and the functioning of social security service providers, in particular social work centres, to coordinate their activities in conjunction with non-governmental organisations with a view to providing appropriate measures and assistance to all those individuals and social groups in need of social assistance, not only those appearing outside the social work centres window. With regard to the dilemmas that have already been raised today, i.e. the extent of the abuse, I can say that the data on this is only indirect, is derived from a survey on the non-representative pattern of the poor population, and says, an expert assessment that about one fifth of the beneficiaries of the financial social benefits receive it in a way that they might seriously doubt that there are legitimate reasons. The most abuse, if we call it that, occurs precisely in connection with the false representation of the status of the single parent family, so we believe that in particular the changes made by the current bill represent a major step forward. Of course, the extent of abuse varies according to the environment in which potential beneficiaries live. However, I am convinced that accurate records of so-called abuses cannot be kept, as this would mean keeping a double record. So much so that we can figure out what the extent of this problem is. On the other hand, I might point to this second aspect of justice, the capture of those potential beneficiaries that are not currently excluded in the system. You will be surprised to learn that there are also estimates of experts who know the system very well or also know the terrain, that they can speak to as much as possible, that is to say, from 15% to 20%, these are people in whom the hands of social services do not reach out, who do not appear in the windows of social work centres for various reasons. For example, they do not know that their perception, that their situation is not so bad that they need the help of society, etc. The problem is much more complex than it seems at first sight, so it needs to be addressed in an integrated manner, not only through a social transfer system but also through a system of full functioning of social security services. The proposed law on the provision of rights from public funds in one place combines social transfers, which are currently within the competence of the five ministries. In Slovenia we know 13 different transfers, the condition is height determination and depends on the material position of the beneficiary. There are different criteria for the allocation of rights, but there are also differences in the authorities and the way in which individual rights are decided. The proposed law removes these shortcomings and specifies the procedure for the allocation of individual rights, which will be distributed in one place in a certain order, that is, the centre for social work. In doing so, it will be uniformly determined for all transfers which events of the applicant of his family members are taken into account, the calculations as to the exact manner in which the assets will be determined, the manner in which they are taken into account. However, one of the more important gains that we are facing citizens is, of course, the fact that we are going to make with the obvious that a country with different forms of assistance is too generous to those who formally show low incomes, and according to their wealth and lifestyle, they are living in a superstandard way. The law will significantly reduce the possibility of abuse, but of course, as my predecessors have already said, it will not be possible to eliminate them completely. The key to the successful implementation of the law, however, will be the establishment of appropriate databases from which an official who will decide on rights can suddenly obtain all the necessary information in order to be able to decide on each role and right correctly and fairly. It is precisely in this segment that the Social Democrats believe there is the greatest danger for the timely entry into force of the law. The individual databases are responsible for more than one source. I hope that the preparation for the change of the system will be carried out equally by all the departments in charge and responsibility, because it is a project of the Government and not only the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Delays in specific areas can cause the law to fail to be implemented in the manner envisaged and within the time limit foreseen. Therefore, once again, consider whether we are able to implement the law and all its implementation within the time limit set out in the bill. An important component of the implementation of the law is also the professional work of workers who will carry out the system. The process of identifying and providing social transfers also implies professional advice and directing recipients or the implementation of the first social assistance measure. Ensuring a sufficient number of workers who will be entrusted with a significantly larger range of tasks than today is also one of the key elements of the success of the reform brought about by the amendment of the law. I hope that certain transfers and reinforcements of social work centres will create conditions for them to carry out their task. The proposed law also introduces a series of substantive changes that have been deliberately or not already presented in public. In some ways, unilaterally and by creating doubts about the correctness of the planned decisions. The first is related to the replacement of the child supplement until the age of 18. Let me point out that the Convention on the Rights of the Child speaks of a child under the age of 18 and that many countries follow this example and, in fact, allocate the right only to that age. What is important, however, is that by the 18th year of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources, which is no longer a new beneficiary of the State grant, the loss of this grant is replaced by a significantly higher child allowance for pupils, in short, by the fact that we are talking about compensation for the right to a state grant on account of the increase in child allowances for pupils. An important novelty that we particularly welcome in the Group of Social Democrats is the substantial increase in the award of the grant from €399 to €591. This will allow the number of scholarships to increase and, in accordance with the proposed law, they will also be significantly higher. The Government thus fulfils the basic requirement of students, expressed in discussions on the future regulation of student work or its transformation into a small job, that studies are no longer the privileges of the rich or, above all, the privileges of the rich. Just as much increased censorship, which says that it will practically belong to everyone's scholarship, to every family where income on a family member will be less than €591, speaks of an automatic right based on the established status of each family and that it is practically an automatic one. The third important novelty, which is also related to the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, is in line with the long-term requirements of the social partners, as it carries out some of the expenditure currently paid indirectly by the pensioner directly to the budget. The State pension and the social security allowance will be paid directly from the budget after a new one, and the eligibility will be decided by the Centre for Social Work. Of course, there are still a number of doubts in the exercise of these rights, so we will have to discuss them even more closely. The law brings many other improvements and innovations, for which there will be plenty of time to discuss them in the debate. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support and vote in favour of the proposed law in the first reading that it is suitable for further consideration. However, we will closely follow the comments and views and opinions that will be expressed in the debate. In our view, the reform of the area of social transfers needs to be taken with extreme care and care, since it is necessary to ensure that changes for individual groups may not lead to a deterioration of their social situation. And maybe at the end of it. We already have some experience with such a comprehensive reform in Slovenia. The system was implemented from 1984 to 1991, it was truly a major modernization of the system, then we called it social protection rights, and I am confident that this example will be followed by the current reform and that it will in some way bring about a model for similar models that could be implemented in other countries with its courageous implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with co-workers and co-workers! In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, there has been a systematic sequence from the situation in which this law falls to the way we see the law of the Social Democrats, so I will not deal with it. However, I must say that my personal view of this law stems mainly from the stated objective of creating a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. If this basic objective is to be achieved, then the effort needed to make any minor adjustments to the law and, in particular, to enforce the law is worth it. And so allow me to respond to some of the statements that have been heard, because I cannot agree with them at all. The claim that the applicant did not prove abuse that he relied solely on some abuse rumours actually surprises me, because I was used in the past by the parliamentary group, which was surrounded by a number of eyewitnesses and aprioral judgments on abuse, and this was happening in the case of, say, subsidisation of parental contributions to kindergartens or, say, contributions to the unemployed and could still be listed. But to me, it seems more important that we separate between what is abuse and what is simply impossible to identify. If the Ministry had information on who's using the system, then I'm sure they'd be eliminated by now and we couldn't even talk about the abuse. So this is the reverse problem that we are discussing, the Second Observation, which has been so much in mind, I hope to say, and which has been constantly repeating lately that in the previous term no law has been sent or transmitted to the National Assembly, which has not been adopted in the Economic and Social Council. Well, I would have said a little cynically if the Economic and Social Council had been intervened in the first place, because, for example, the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, despite the demands of the social partners on the Economic and Social Council, was not intervened at all, not to mention how it was not possible to talk about any social dialogue or at least agreement on the resolution on the national programme of higher education, the law on higher education, the novelties of the law on kindergartens, the law on patient rights. However, if we go to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs now, I will remember only three: the minimum wage law, the novelty on employment and unemployment insurance, the law on dealing with the consequences of working with asbestos, and if the law on coordination of transfers was harmonised, I did not go to look. But especially for the laws in 2008 it is possible to say that this is the law on the protection supplement and many more, if we are already starting to comment and read, then we should keep some memory and some sense of reality. I've already said that the category of justice is essential to me. However, the second category, which I think is when we are talking about involving from public funds, is certainly also the efficiency of the funds spent. And when I look at the bill before us, and if I think about efficiency, then the fundamental question is how will the law reach those who are targeted. And after this salary, it seems to me that the children's allowance, the first rights from public funds, is the most justified requirement, because it is consistent with what we say is that public funds in the core must first be directed to the family and those most vulnerable categories, which are definitely educational, from children to 18 years of age, and then scholarships, of course also cash social assistance and a security allowance. And then there's everything else. About how the review needs to be regulated, control, control over everything that this will bring to the social work centres, but we have already said something, and I am sure that others will also say it. But I will end with this: it is essential to me that this law be enforced as soon as possible, and certainly before the Small Work Act, because this would only strengthen what we have been saying all along is that the revolt is often a result of ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! On the side of the debate that we have heard in the presentation of the DeSUS Group's position on the proposed and discussed law, let me say that we are very pleased that this proposal comes to the table by law, which will, in the new social conditions imposed by the current economic and financial crisis, ensure that the system of social assistance and social transfers is launched fairly, equally, taking into account the principle of reciprocity and also economics. I am very pleased that this law is thoroughly prepared and that in the first stage it is trying to somehow introduce, to infiltrate an equal system in the distribution of all social transfers. It is important that the distribution of social rights takes place on the basis of the material situation established for certain applicants by beneficiaries. I come from a smaller environment, from a local community where, in fact, all people know each other, and it is evident that, on the one hand, they accumulate in all these people, citizens and citizens, social rights, and on the other hand, a lot of abuse, abuse of the entire social system. It is right to set a single entry point, which should be carried out by social work centres, which I think are the real institution that deals with this, because sometimes in local environments we find that social work centres do not do their job or cover or know the environment in which they operate. In these local environments, we find that some beneficiaries make a circle, first at the social work centre, then they come to the congregation, then they go to some other employment agency, while there are other humanitarian organisations. And when this cycle is completed within one month, they eventually come to a much better existential state than, say, workers who are employees, who are at work and so on. And in this sense, it seems important to me that a system of justice and a single entry point is being incorporated into this law, a single decision that will determine their situation and, on the basis of this situation, also divide social transfers. Of course, we know that under this law there will be some who will be deprived or have smaller social assistance, but some who are larger, but I think the system will be more just. That is why we will not be disturbed by the fact that some will have less social assistance than they have now, but will be equally divided. The debate of our colleague, Mr DeSUS, was also in this direction that it was right to exclude transfers currently under state pensions from pension and disability insurance. Pension is an economic category and we therefore believe that it has nothing to do with social assistance and that social transfers from another address should go. This box office should be cleaned to the extent that it covers only the pensions that belong to it. It also seems important to us - what has also been found in the debates - that implementation, implementation of the law itself will be quality when the way and mechanism for monitoring the fairness or reality of this law is also built in. I'm totally in favour of an inspection. I am fully in favour of inspecting all these beneficiaries of social transfers to determine in all environments whether they are going in the right direction or getting them right and so on. I believe that the law is a good basis, a basis for further discussion, and I am convinced that this law adopts a fair system of all social transfers, which is very important at the moment, and at the moment, the Democratic Party of Retired Persons fully supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franci Kek. [[Not at all.]] Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! More or less, my colleague from the Andreja Črnak Group expressed the position of the Group of Members. However, I would add two, three thoughts to this, because this general debate is in this first reading. For starters, I'd say we finally got to the point after many years at the right end. Solidarity and social justice have two ends in common with each stick. And this social justice has two ends. On the one hand, there are those who, because of the situation they have fallen into, really need this social assistance, and on the other hand, are those who try, on an ongoing basis, and most often, to abuse such well - intentioned marriages for violating them. I therefore support the proposal and its basic intention, or the basic objective, which is to establish a social state in a fairer and longer term with a single, transparent and fair system for the distribution and use of these public funds. It is very important, as stated in the draft law, that one entry point in the system of this social policy or these social rights. I think that the more difficult task at this entry point will be to establish one perfectly normal and real record of the individual family or individuals with the material resources they have in both immovable property and movable assets. I think it'll be one of the tougher tasks. Social work centers. As they are now set up and organised, I think they will also need some human resources support and, above all, a technological, organisational support so that these two things can be served, the real data collection I call the so-called social card of the individual family or community, the requests of those who request, and then the decisions on which the criteria will be decided. And in the end, there's something else. For more than 30 years, I have met children in one way or another, whether they are in kindergarten or in school, indirectly with their families. And there's one thing that's bothering me, and I'm going to expose it today. I understand that these social transfers, these social assistance, when we talk about children going to their age until they are 18 years old, as recorded and defined in various international conventions and resolutions. However, I always wonder, especially when I'm in school, whether it's a transfer, whether it's a child's allowance, or whether it's some other aid directly for the child, or whether it's for his activity and his existence, he's also using it, I'm not going to say use or use it, or whether it's for his activity. I know it's hard because these transfers are meant for the family like this base cell. There is, of course, a great responsibility on the part of the parents, but I often get when talking about abuse and listening to other colleagues and colleagues, I think there is still some space in here that maybe with some of the mechanisms of this control these funds could really be, not 100%, at least 90% of the children's activities. Once again, I support and say that the law is going in the right direction - finally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding and patience. Nice greetings to the Ministry's coworkers! I am pleased that we have tackled this important issue, because social transfers and the regulation of these conditions in society have never been completed, nor has the story been completed. But I am surprised - at first there were some criticisms in the opening positions, those who disagreed with the legal solutions and then left the hall. Today you can see who cares about social affairs and who may have the name "social" in the party because of some other principles. I must say, I welcome these solutions. In particular, I am concerned whether we will be able to achieve computer support, on the one hand, and on the other hand to prevent abuse. Here I can see the hard work ahead of us. Some European countries have done so, even in our neighbourhood, and unfortunately have abandoned the story. In part, I know the case of Austria, where they worked hard on these records and then ended up somewhere in the middle of the road. My assessment is that Slovenia proves that it is a social state, that we devote a lot of resources to social transfers - such as these and others - to make sure that they are not always fairly distributed. I support the way that those who may be abused by the excuse of wrongdoing or speculation, the system of works and means that are too much and too much, we give to those who do not know how to get these assistance, have no knowledge or even shame. To further strengthen the work of social work centres to increase and improve cooperation between municipalities and social work centres, because we all care for the same people, and when multiple meetings and exchanges of information lead forward. I must say, from the environment I come from, I have good, positive experiences in this area. But we can all do more together on this system. I think it's a good solution to increase the number of scholarships, to stimulate students and students to work, to study, not work. We also need to study why in Slovenia we are given a large number of scholarships remain unallocated. One of the problems that he would have devoted himself to is working in black. Some in construction mainly work, earn relatively good, and because they are unemployed, they enjoy all the social ratings. Then also the status of so-called single-unit communities, which are not really because they are established to draw on much of the social transfers. It is necessary to say bob beans and to establish a system that is in particular transparent, transparent and allows social security and survival for those who are with their own hands [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They don't know and they can't make money. [[...]] I'll support the marriage. But I'm sure we'll all do even better together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dejan Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In my view, it is certainly the aim of the bill to create a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. In this system of legislation, we will certainly see a more transparent and simpler system of social transfers that will allow what is, of course, the goal for all of us to get help from those who really need it. It will also prevent, on the other hand, many times the exploitation and abuse of the system that has occurred in the past. Whatever the case, since we have a package of two laws that are securely linked to each other, we see that the current arrangements of the Institute of Monetary Social Assistance are improving as they are adapted to individual beneficiaries, in line with the duration of the reception, with the possibility of beneficiaries to work, age and, of course, work activity. One of the most important innovations that is likely to be discussed in the future is the rise in the level of monetary social assistance, as we know that the basket of living needs has increased, including the minimum wage, which is also the result of higher financial social assistance. Today we've heard that there have been some anomalies in the past, and it's only right that they're getting rid of them. Citizens and citizens remind themselves of what is happening between people. The fact is that social contributions have somehow accumulated in the existing legal regime. For this reason, it is essential that all rights be determined in one place, that those who are entitled to do so be given this, but that the anomaly does not appear when we have a limit placed on us and where those who do not reach this limit, with various social benefits, can overcome those that may be slightly above the limit and then fall out on all social contributions, particularly those in the grant and all that might belong to it. It is therefore necessary to establish a single record to show what social rights are being accumulated and not to create in essence an environment where those who work and fall into a kind of lower and middle class do not, in fact, recognise some of the benefits or rights that come from social protection. The novelty of marriage is that all assets are counted today, but not before. At least not in some areas. This is very important because someone who had a lot of assets and displayed on the other side of small personal income could have come well through some payments, especially about kindergartens here there was a lot of talk. That's how this anomaly is eliminated, which is certainly one step further. Many times, young families are also faced with a situation where it is better not to acknowledge marriage or live at the same address, because more rights are coming from the position of single parents or from different addresses, and we need to make sure that there is no abuse of the system established in the country. The next thing, which I think is also crucial, has established a trend in the country that is not actually worth doing or, if social protection is so regulated, then it is a fact that this needs to be addressed. Because all those who received some kind of financial social assistance, along with other social benefits, quickly crossed that line, and it was appropriate for them to do so. Therefore, it is necessary to reward those who work and, of course, encourage those who do not work. The key last thing. There has been a lot of talk in the past about scholarships, especially with regard to a very up-to-date debate on the Small Work Act, where many have somehow conditioned the adoption of the Small Work Act if we accept more and higher scholarships. It is important to know that in Slovenia we need to provide two goals for students and students. The first objective is to ensure some social security. This small work law brings because students will be harmed by pension periods, working hours, recognised work experience, disabled, health insurance. And the second goal to follow is to enable students to study and not work. So in the free time they have, so that they don't devote their free time to their work. In order to achieve this objective, however, we need to provide scholarships that will allow, in particular, those who are socially weak to access the study. And it is by this law, that is, the law on the exercise of rights from public funds that we do so. What happened, say, last year, when we still had a 60 to 65% minimum wage? Various social benefits, such as pensions and everything else that family members received, were also included in the censorship. This meant at some point that 17,000 young people stayed at the door and did not get scholarships.And this is a problem for a country that wants to encourage young people to study, but they do not have the conditions. The amendment of the law on scholarships has already brought the first step forward, so it came from an existing arrangement of 60 % and 65% of the minimum wage rose to 68% of the minimum wage and 70% of those coming from single parent families are said to be children with special needs. This was a key step in a time of crisis where money is lacking that more scholarships were in place during the school year. This marriage is taking a lot longer. Today, in order to be more transparent, the price of 300 euros per family member, this law raises the price to 600 euros per family member, which is much more and which brings as many scholarships as Slovenia has never had in history. And thus this second condition is fulfilled that students will receive a scholarship to be able to study but not to devote their free time mainly to work. As far as the specific numbers on scholarships are concerned. It is evident that the number of beneficiaries of scholarships mainly increases from 14 000 to 24 000 800 scholarships, which is a major improvement. If we look at only the annual amount of funding for scholarships, there is an increase from 30 million to 81 million for students. The annual level of funding combined for both students and students is increasing from 73 million to 135 million. This means that €62 million is more available for scholarships, which is certainly a step forward and the promise of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to ensure this condition. It is also necessary to understand in some way the students who have many times remained empty in the past, especially as regards scholarships. This law specifically brings this and is very important, once again, perhaps for the general public that the law should enter into force with 1. 1. 2011,while the Small Work Act of 1. Seven. 2011. The scholarships would be provided by this law before the adoption of the Small Work Act. I think that the laws are good that the Ministry of Labour has embarked on a thorough reform in this area and I will therefore be happy to support both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u86	The word is "magic gentlemen." Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the system law for the enforcement of rights in the field of public funds. I think that it is a good basis for further consideration of this law, with which we have received a good overview of the consequences of this law. In the global, the amount of funding for scholarships is greatly increasing, which is very good and will allow a large number of students to study and work less, and it will become apparent that they have to work through student services to be able to study. It is also good that we have received some comments from a particular civil society, as well as from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which point to certain possible shortcomings of the law, which can be properly corrected upon further consideration. It is clear from the previous serious consideration whether these observations actually require intervention in the content of the law itself. This law is also important because, in fact, the State will collect data on the social situation of the individual beneficiary in one place and thus ensure that they receive social transfers or rights from public funds to those who actually need them. And there will certainly be less abuse due to such arrangements. It is important to raise the limit or lower the limit to enable the application or participation in public funds to that effect. And that is good because, despite the economic and financial crisis, the country is trying to maintain the level of social state achieved and to do so in such a way as to maintain solidarity within society and to provide the basis for the survival of all those who do not have enough or are unemployed or cannot work for health or other reasons. That is why I think it is good that we have taken a systemic approach to this issue, that we have a good law before us, which we will certainly be able to support, and in this way solve one important area that has so far been resolved in various ways and through several laws in particular areas, but now we have collected things in one place, and I believe that it will be easier to ensure to all those who need help, these rights and stimulate all those who engage their assets to survive when they are running out, or that they are looking for work and helping to save their material and social situation. In my first reading, I will be happy to support the law as a suitable basis for further procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u88	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds introduces urgent modernisation into the social transfer system and is one of the main social protection laws submitted by the Government and will be adopted by Parliament by a large majority, I hope. The law brings such a long-awaited single entry point. This will help, allow for a central system of record-keeping and thus more rational distribution of social transfers and, consequently, contribute to a fairer regulation, a more equitable distribution of aid to those who are actually needed. A colleague, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, has already warned that the establishment of this system represents a great effort, a technical expertise, as it connects several bases, five bases of ministries into the central regulatory system, and it will be necessary to take an operational approach as soon as possible to the construction of this urgently needed information support system. Transfers are supposed to be more transparent, sharing more fair and rational. The topics will always remain about specific details. For example, one of these would also count the security allowance as this category of transfers or not. While the single system requires an assessment of the overall value of the revenues received by an individual, certain dilemmas will remain and may be discussed in a later period. But we can't get past the current topic: student demonstration. Why is this marriage connected? This was one of the basic requirements of students even before demonstrations that the scope of scholarships must be raised, to enable easier studies. Unfortunately, the organizers of the demonstration have not resigned, although the bill has already been made publicly available to all, that it is the biggest increase in scholarships in the history of Slovenia, the new Slovenia, and the scholarships will become available to a much wider range of users. One cannot escape the impression that students and students have been manipulated to a certain extent, that they have been driven by perverse protests, which have been encouraged by those who have been fueled by student work for years. Without doing a special study, my colleagues, whom I happened to meet, said my son received an SMS from the student service: Take part in demonstrations, he will have lunch, drink, transport. Many of these snacks were at the door of the National Assembly, not just granite cubes. Demonstrations were encouraged by those who actually received money from percentages of the student work, without public invitations, only percentages of the student work. If we wanted to change this issue in the root, but this is not the subject of today's law, we should fundamentally change the funding of student organisations, which should not depend on the amount of student work, but should be financed by the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Science and Education, or perhaps by specific funds. This system has been developed, and this indicates a conflict of interest. And this conflict of interest has also given birth to such perverse demonstrations that we have been given. Another dilemma that comes to mind when I'm married. When a person translates numbers, he also encounters an increase in the minimum social support for an individual called an enzyme. At the time of fixing the minimum wage, the Ministry provided research on the life-cost basket. We've reached a number that would also be the basis for minimum wage. How did we get 288 euros? Did we split that basket? I believe that this censorship is more administrative than life, but at this point it is illustrative that the minimum support would be raised to the level of the cost of living I was talking about, as this would in fact eliminate the difference between support and minimum wage. This is, of course, a question of stimulation, then motivation for finding a job and so on. However, this must be our goal. If the system is financially sustainable, with a different social distribution of funds, this goal would, I think, be achievable even today. But we should radically change, as I said, the distribution system. Social security should be based, i.e. minimal, first aid, on an individual’s assessment of the cost of living that a person needs for survival. It's for food, clothing, plus an apartment allowance if he doesn't own his own apartment. On this basis, we would structure social security. The minimum wage must be set aside from the minimum subsistence allowance, as the status of an employee who goes to work is only different from that of a social support worker. However, this approach is probably still utopian at the moment, but this should be the goal. If I go back to the beginning. Indeed, the law is a major contribution to solving a fairer distribution of social transfers and an urgent step towards modernising the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to take part in this debate with a few clarifications, the answers that you have asked in your debates, so to speak, have been requested. I may be able to clarify some of the questions that are being raised about the solutions to this law. First of all, why did we actually decide to stop children's allowances at the age of 18 or at the age of full age and move on with scholarships? One of the reasons was already stated, the Member of the Council of the Republic of Montenegro cited it. It's international documents that define it. What we are particularly concerned about in the whole of social policy is that we actually have a pattern, a leaky pattern of family life in Slovenia, which is developing in the wrong direction, in the direction when the young generation is too late to make up their own households, families and so on. We want to stop the transfer of adult young people through parents, make them faster to get on their feet, become responsible for their lives, and thus move faster to get on the road to independence elsewhere. Of course, this is not the only action. There must be more of them, and we will try to make more of them in the future. We could have done so in this area right now. At the same time, it is also important that rationality is introduced into the system, because now it is not necessary to give two decisions to each individual, but to those by the age of 18 one for two transfers and to those later one for two. And that's how this story goes. The second issue raised was that access to scholarships could be problematic in order to take account of other benefits. This is precisely what the law states that access to scholarships is not conditioned by receiving other transfers, as can be seen in the precise reading, so there is no fear expressed by the discussers in this regard. Third case, asset accounting and income. Here we need to note that we cannot count the same thing twice. It is said that if the property brings, enables income, brings income, then, of course, we consider such an individual income. If he doesn't bring it to him, we consider it a property. However, we cannot take into account the same things twice, because, of course, in this case, it would mean that we are taking away from someone what brings him income, and that would not be fair in terms of social justice. There were a lot of questions about abuse and how many we know. And exactly what Ambassador Potter said was that if we knew about all the abuses, there would be none of them, because we must not allow them. However, estimates have already been made as regards the likelihood of unjustified use of public funds. It is estimated that up to 18. 20% of these funds can be spent inappropriately. Of course, there are other things that warn us of abuse, many direct reports coming to the ministry from different sides. We need to pay attention to such applications because in their community, people who observe in their environment the incomprehensible things about them, that someone benefits certain public funds, and they know that, say, they have a lot of property or something like that, they need to be careful about such warnings, they must not be overlooked. However, I must say that it is also in the entire system, and we have been paying particular attention to this, built up now quite something, I would say to this, to the systemic abuses that permit the legal use of these funds, and in terms of social justice this is not legitimate. Let's say you take transportation, subsidize transportation. We subsidise transport by subsidising carriers, on the one hand, through the Ministry of Transport and Communications and, on the other hand, individuals have access to transport subsidies or means of transport through the supplement to scholarships. Or cases often cited that someone with large incomes, in full view of large assets, registers a minimum wage. Taking into account only the minimum wage, it is immediately eligible for a whole range of social transfers, and this is what the environment sees. We know it can't be like this. Or if we take a case of scholarships, where there are a significant number of students who are not students who are not students, they get a scholarship and other benefits. And similarly, let's say, in the case of single parent families, where there are very frequent applications, once in a different way. There are many of these anomalies in the system, as it has been built over the years, with good intentions, but in the end we have come to a state that needs to be fixed urgently. The question of the practical implementation of this law. We are aware that this law, as well as the next one we will consider, brings a great deal of change. We are therefore preparing a specific implementation plan for each such law at the Ministry. This is, of course, not a mandatory component of the law itself, but in terms of its introduction, implementation, but such a plan of necessity. Such a plan shall contain the necessary staffing changes, organisational changes, all the logistics required in order to carry out procedures from start to finish, has a time dimension. All of this is being prepared and I expect the Director to submit this implementation plan for this law as well. At that time, we will also be able to see more precisely whether the legal deadline will fully succeed, whether it can be realized or not. We are working intensively in all areas and we are working hard to get things done in these hands. As regards the implementation and implementation of this law alone, some of this is also in the transitional provisions of the law. If you look at Articles 62 and 63 and the explanations, you will see that we have not overlooked this issue, which concerns as much as the number of changes that the law will bring. In particular, it was a matter of urgency or pace of adoption, as well as of dealing with the law with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. Let me say that this law, as well as the next, has been submitted for consideration by the Economic and Social Council. It was also specially systematically presented. It is true, however, that there were not many debates and many reactions in this regard. What I can comment on is that, both in the Economic and Social Council and in the individual partners at the beginning of the mandate, and also, I think, in the National Assembly it was similar, they pointed out that it was not a solution. . Now we're here, if I paraphrase or caricature a little bit, in a situation where they say they can't read the proposals we're preparing as quickly as we write them. You don't have to take this too seriously. We expect the relevant social partners to take seriously what we offer them. And if there's no response, then we're responding accordingly. However, it is always possible that there are additional comments and additional questions. However, I must say that this law or that all these laws have been presented in detail to a number of other stakeholders, except for trade unions and employers who are involved and will be involved in this law in one way or another. [[..]] The preparation and announcement of this law also speaks for itself because it has been about a year and a half since we started to prepare it, to present individual solutions and also to supplement what we have received from the social partners, stakeholders, as feedback. This also raises the question of what this law means, and the following: some are still being prepared, in the context of the whole change in the social state, social policy and the issue of whether this increases the level of social rights. I can ensure that we do this with special attention to all social groups. And what can be understood from these solutions is that, above all, we want to help the most socially and economically weak categories of the population in times of limited economic opportunities. Just one piece of information we've come up with recently at the Ministry, when we've reviewed what all the legislation we've adopted so far means, measures at the Ministry in recent years from a financial point of view. All of this shows that to the population, either directly through social transfers or indirectly through assistance to employers, let's say when it comes to intervention measures, that we will spill it to the population, if I can use that word, in 2009, 2010, and 2011, around 1.3 billion additional funds, beyond the regular programmes we provide. So far, this sum is about half of this scale, based on, as it were said, the measures and laws that our ministry is implementing. Thus, criticism is at the expense of the fact that these changes undermine the social state and the attention to the lowest socio-economic categories, even through this information, is completely unjustified. The question was what about large families, attention to families. There's no change here. We maintain some kind of special status or additional relief for these families. When it comes to transferring a state pension and a social security allowance from the pension system to the social security system, let me say that there are two parallel processes. One is the change in the social security system and the other is the modernisation of the pension system. We want to withdraw from the pension scheme all those benefits that are not based on social benefits, in this case pension insurance. This is a principle solution, and this also means that the current beneficiaries of a state pension or a security allowance will be treated in the same way as all those seeking monetary social benefits under this law and under the Social Security Benefits Act, which means that their entire wealth and income situation will be taken into account in this case. And that seems fair to us. If someone has not paid and has enough assets at the same time, it is unfair, in our judgment, to still receive social security benefits, as opposed to those who do not have it. What will be the impact and how assets are assessed was also one of the issues. This property, the value of its assets, its impact on the social economic situation so far, we have not been able to assess. We admit it and we can write it. In particular, because the register or valuation of real estate has not yet been completed, it is ongoing. Once this new system is introduced, we will also have this information and access to data on individual property. We estimate that there will be at least 5% savings if we can call it taking into account assets.It is possible that this number will also differ from this estimate. It was also a particular question of looking into data by individual. We will establish a special information system that will connect so many and so many information bases. However, I must say that when these data are seen at individual level, aggregated, it is said that the official will not have information about, say, the state of the current account of a particular bank for that individual, but will be information for the whole of his assets. This way, we will ensure with the system itself that the potential for abuse will be less, but of course this system also requires special care in the training of workers, advisers at social work centres, which we will also focus on in the implementation and implementation of this law. Let me also comment on what Member Magajna has already commented on, the question of what is the amount of monetary social assistance, how high can we go, what costs someone with this income can have, with this help, if he does not have another, to cover. This question is open all the time, it is a matter of criteria, of assessment, of what is included in that minimum basket of individual consumption. Of course, we go here when it comes to temporary conditions, to the spending that is daily, with which an individual maintains daily, weekly needs, and to those that are long - term. Therefore, this sum is much lower. In doing so, however, we were particularly attentive to the ratio to the minimum wage, as you yourself have found. This relationship must not be substantially disrupted if we want the motivation for work to be maintained. By the way, the minimum wage has increased by about 25%, and this sum by 27%, it is said that we have increased this aid slightly in favour of the recipients of monetary social assistance, if we estimate the percentage. I would also like to stress, however, that we are introducing in this new legislation specific incentives for those who are willing to work as aid recipients to do so, to activate themselves, to gain their own income, and we will not consider this income to be a loss of financial social assistance. This is in order to encourage them, as we say, to work and social inclusion, unlike the current situation where we miss the functioning of our institutions in this direction. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Dear Mr. Secretary! Nice greetings to all present! Not only in times of crisis, but there are always people among us who need help. Therefore, I am very pleased to read this material, which speaks of Slovenia continuing to be a social state, at least as much as possible in the current situation. Therefore, what Mr Minister has already mentioned at the outset, justice in the sharing of this social assistance, and now I am thinking of all categories, is extremely important. We know that the identification of the property situation of citizens and citizens is sometimes very complicated, that it is difficult to determine how it is to work in the background, that in the local community many times happens to us that someone exceeds the price and has to pay for the child's stay in kindergarten at some level, while it can be found that someone has a very good hand, that he can cheat the municipal administration or anyone else and obtain a discount on the payment of any tax. I have some behaviors about what it's like in Italy. As soon as some immense wealth falls over the family from the sky, there's a financial police out there to find out how they got this wealth. Last but not least, someone in the casino gets a bigger sum, but I know how well the Italians hide it so they don't figure out how and what's going on at home. It saddens me that in this environment, in society, in the media, it is precisely the fact that we reduce these social transfers, reduce children's allowances, take children's allowances, take scholarships and don't know what else. If someone reads this material, and it's public and it's on the Internet, and I don't know where to show me one number, where the number goes down, or we take someone's right, and we don't replace it with someone else. Something will have to be done, I don't know, a pierre at the Ministry or at the government, anywhere to stop playing around and say that there is no social dialogue. Today, I do not see any of the specific structures on the balcony that could sit here and listen, not only when they have been brought here in an organised manner, because it is generally necessary to pressure Members so that they do not vote differently than they think. I think that the subsidy for renting apartments is extremely important, not least for young families. In the local community, we contribute some money for these subsidies, and this is really paying off. Thinking of every young family buying a new apartment is unrealistic. Even with credit and everything, we block a family that needs something else, not just an apartment and a loan payment. He also needs some standard, he needs to go to the theater sometime, buy a book and stuff. But if this family is completely in charge, then that's not possible. That's why I think this proposal to subsidize rents for housing is very welcome as well. [[..]] I will support this law when it is in the third reading, and at that time it can be complemented by some clever suggestions. To me, Mr. Minister, it is very unfortunate that you were so brutally attacked during the demonstrations, completely unfounded. I don't think the protestors can blame it, because this drunken youth didn't know what it was, but the organizers, the unions and everyone else, but it's probably a cold shower. I hope this doesn't happen again. Only documents need to be read, read laws, suggest these matters, and then see what goes better, where this is not possible. That we don't all get some cake from the state, that those who are rich who don't need help don't get it, I think it's the right way. As principal, I've always said, even if the kids go to the movies, he should pay 20 cents for the ticket and get it. For what is free is worth nothing. And anyone who can't pay for it can pay anyone else. I think the state level is the same. Those who do not need help and get it for free will never appreciate it, and the attitude towards the country will always be ugly. I wish this bill a successful way in future readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, after these answers from the Minister, things are clearly being clarified in some way. At the beginning of the introduction, a number of questions were raised, of course, there were no such answers as to be satisfactory. But the fact is that the current system is opaque, complicated and without a reasonable reason is taken into account in determining the material situation of different groups of persons and different types of income and, of course, also in different ways. Different social transfers are also decided on by different bodies, and this can, of course, be exploited and different socio-economic situations are presented. It's a condition. And the implementation of a law that would regulate, in a uniform, very simple and transparent manner, the scope of all the social transfers provided by the State is absolutely necessary. This law was already being prepared in the previous term. I am happy alone or in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are glad that it has been upgraded and prepared to the extent that we can deal with it today. What I pointed out at the outset in the presentation of the Group's position that we had received an e-mail where trade unions complain that the matter was not aligned with them, that it was not actually talked to them in such a way that they could say that they were coordination, but that is a fact. Now, who to trust. Believing the Ministry, which claims that it has been co-ordinated, that consensus, consensus, or the belief of the Free Trade Unions that have written this post has also occurred in the Economic and Social Council and claim that this has not been the case. It is good that social work centres become a single entry point and decide on all rights from public funds. It is true that rights are governed by a single role in order to lay down the order of exercise of rights from public resources, in order to establish a single circle and a uniform way of determining the material situation in determining the eligibility of public funds. Of course, the information system is a very important factor in the implementation of this law. The information system has recently made us quite a few gray hairs, including in the record of so-called deleted. I am still saying that the record, which has been in place for several years, is still not updated, is still not as it should be. And I'm afraid it's gonna be the same here. Why? See, the Government, when referring to the main objectives of the law, stresses that those objectives can only be achieved by establishing a central register of rights from public funds and by linking information systems. Of course, this is to be achieved, but at least 20 different types of records need to be linked - now I am very much in mind - which will ultimately support this central database. And the timely establishment of this information system is therefore crucial that the law can be brought to life in practice. It's a good six months before the law comes into effect. Given that applications under this law can be submitted as early as a month before entry into force, I think we should be in the stage of testing this information system today. It would be interesting to know whether it really is such that it is already being established and at what stage the e-social project is at this point. The implementation of the Act of 1 January 2011 as set out in the Act is important in terms of the provision of certain rights that have already been publicly exposed several times, for example, to a larger number of State grants mentioned in the context of small work regulation. And if there is a delay in implementing this law, the promises of more and higher scholarships are questionable. As far as the law is concerned, the question is also raised. I don't think all the sub-laws are ready yet, but they have to be issued by the time this law comes into force. And until then, there's very little time. As far as the assessment of the financial consequences of the law is concerned. What I read in the marriage, I can view as very flawed and not to say, I will say very gently, very vaguely. The government, in its grave estimates, states that the lack of funds due to the enforcement of this law is approximately EUR 11 million and a half, but adds that it does not take into account the impact of assets that are expected to increase the income of individuals or families, on average by at least 5%. This should mean that there will be no financial consequences for the implementation of this law on the State budget. That's how you read it. In view of these significant changes under the conditions relating to the material situation of the individual and the altered prices for most children, such as the child allowance, the protective allowance and so on, it is difficult to believe that this effect would be fully compensated. The real picture of the financial consequences is really hard to get this moment and predict how it will go because it is difficult to assess the material situation of each individual or the situation of the family, which is normal at this point, but this does not justify the establishment of a very flat-rate assessment. Because the bill is a very, very flat-rate assessment. Until this law is in force, if it is confirmed by such a procedure as is envisaged, it should be done, or a very short period of time, until then, six months. The amount of revenue that is based on this law is estimated at around €270 million for 2011. Such a large volume of funds certainly has a strong impact on public finances. The growing problems of public finances, the increase in deficits and the envisaged balance sheet require, in my view, a more detailed analysis of the financial impact. Also with regard to income determination, I can say that when I read these articles, I find that it is very complicated and I assume that you are also aware that this process of income determination is complex. An individual, on the basis of the provisions of the law, who reads only the law as it is now written, cannot know whether or not the law belongs to him. He can't know right now. It would therefore make sense for all potential investors to be able to check for themselves on the Internet or in any other way whether or not they are eligible for public funding. The property of each individual is of great importance for the proper determination of the material position of the individual. The law provides that the value of immovable property shall also be included in the property. In my opinion, it is only a dead letter on paper until a complete database of real estate values is established. The law will not achieve its purpose if it cannot be implemented in the end. They are responsible for the implementation of social work centres, which are certainly not prepared for this. The transfer of employees from local communities will not solve the problem. Given that the Centre for Social Work in Slovenia 62 is envisaged for the redeployment of personnel, I have such data, so it is about 30. If this information is accurate, you'll tell me, but if you don't, correct me. Social work centres are expected to check the eligibility of public funds twice a year under this law, which means a lot of work and a lot of procedures. As far as supervision is concerned, I can say that in practice so far it has been shown that the system of social benefits is not sufficiently frequent and closely monitored. The main reason for this is, in my opinion, the lack of inspectors who are absolutely lacking. The bill does not provide that the inspection service would be strengthened or regulated in any other area because of the new tasks given under this law. Thus, surveillance will continue to be lacking, which in some ways increases the possibility of misuse of the system itself. One of the objectives of the law is to establish a system that will be simpler for the user and for the competent authority. This assumption is certainly an information system that will operate flawlessly and allow automated data processing and the integration of various records from which the competent authority will obtain information on the applicant and his material position on an official basis. The law also provides that if the applicant is not available and the social work centres are unable to obtain data on an official basis, he will have to provide them himself. This would be both from the point of view of the investor who should look for certificates from the official records himself, as well as from the point of view of the Centre for Social Work, which decides on the applications, a certain additional burden. I believe that the intention of the proposer of the law is good, certainly positive, but there are still a lot of open issues and we will certainly try to improve in further consideration by supplementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Brunskol, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Well-welcome president, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the first reading, I too will support the proposal for a law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. In today's complementary explanations, Mr Minister has made it very clear, and I think it is also clear to all of us that, at this time, limited economic opportunities need to help the most needed. As he stressed, there is a very unjustifiable indication that the social state is failing to do so. It is true, however, that this bill establishes a system of fairness in the distribution of funds, which means that, as Dr Andreja Črnak Meglic, president of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this, as has already been pointed out today, also represents a great effort and technical expertise. Now all the dilemmas that have been raised in connection with the social work centres and other matters, I am confident that the competent ministry in this direction will ensure that we adopt such a law so that it will also have immediate effects, particularly for those who need assistance. As a representative of the local community myself, when I was running for office, I decided that if I was elected, I would spend 100 euros a month on a student or a student from my own territory who would be in need of assistance. And I am very pleased that I can in some way personally, without criticising the system of the state or local communities, in some way at least help a little with the help of those who need help. However, let me also point out that, together with the competent ministries, that is, with the Government, we also have largely the local communities for all those who are needed in our area of assistance, and that also the local communities, i.e. the municipalities, in our budgets, we devote a certain part of our resources and somehow try to solve those problems or those problems that at the moment appear to be the most problematic. Brulc mentioned earlier the fact that, for example, cinemas or schools in nature, in fact, local communities also see that, regardless of today's economic and financial crisis, all children from our area can go to school in nature in order to receive assistance from both the State and the local community on this side. So listening to this is, and I think it is certain that this view of the social state is in today's time, now in these two years it has proved to be, to the greatest extent, that we live in a social state. When the higher economic growth or the high economic growth we witnessed was possible, or these problems could have been less pronounced and less pronounced than they are today when businesses are actually facing difficulties. However, I believe that we are back in the process when trends are going up, that is to say, in the direction of economic growth, although slowly and gradually, but we will also get through this problem and this difficult period. I therefore welcome all the efforts made by the competent ministry, and, of course, as I said at the outset, I will support this proposal of the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u98	Thank you. Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franzege. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u99	Respected and respected! We wrote into the Slovenian Constitution 19 years ago that Slovenia is a social state. Today, by adopting and addressing the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, we are significantly defining one of the key pillars of this social state. Even so far, our government has been ambitious to provide conditions for the development of a just society in Slovenia, especially during this time of crisis, has already taken some important measures. I myself would put a minimum wage rise first among these, which has made a clear message to all those who, in a fair and active manner, create conditions for their survival, that work in this country must be paid. Interestingly, when we passed the minimum wage law, many warned us that this would contribute to an increase in unemployment. Today, a few months after the substantial increase in the minimum wage, we can see that the first data indicate a reduction in unemployment. I am convinced that this is also a reflection of one ambition, that with a better and fairer system of sharing created in our community, we are actually contributing to the creation of greater value that we create as a whole. Surely, there is a time of crisis when a new period awaits us and when we must, when we demand and invite people to come out of this crisis only as a community, that we must offer them a more just society after the crisis, that their contribution to our joint effort will also be followed by the promise of a fairer sharing of what has been created. And I wonder when today some people talk a lot about abuse. I'm not saying that these abuses are a lot, but they certainly happen. And the law before us today is in particular the answer that these abuses would no longer be. Exploiting rights is not a rule, in my opinion. However, it is happening and presenting a challenge mainly because this exploitation with the opportunity of the community to provide resources for solidarity threatens solidarity alone. And those who live from the social assistance that has been established to this day from an untransparent list of options, for example, work in black, only receive from the community, but do not contribute to the social treasury, nor to other public opportunities to face the challenges of our community and we know these, are today a great deal. This is a system that has rewarded the dishonest and punished those who have behaved fairly because they have been clearly in a worse position than those who have acted contrary to the spirit of legislation as it has been before. I think that the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds will effectively, in particular by better targeting aid, which will be supported by a single entry point and a single register of benefits received by an individual and by a more transparent system for the exercise of these rights, make such opportunities for exploiting the system radically difficult without withdrawing aid to those who really need it. By the way, I think we have an important change in the sphere of persecution and prevention of black work. I expect the Government to respond to this challenge by radically tightening the penalties in this area. In this way it will also encourage those who use this work, whether because of their guilt or not, to legalise this work in one of the legal forms of work. Here in particular, I am counting on a new instrument of the Small Work Act, which must become sufficiently open, flexible and not too bureaucratic to provide an effective and attractive alternative to those working in black today. As you know, according to the international organisations of this work, up to 26% of the gross social product we create in the country. The Small Work Act was undoubtedly also a major motivation for last week's student and student demonstrations in the centre of Ljubljana. I don't share some pretty sharp estimates that these demonstrations were illegal. On the contrary, I think they had legitimate requirements that, despite the law on a small part of access to study, knowledge in this country should not deteriorate. However, the fact is that student organisations and their propaganda machinery were likely to attract many who would not otherwise participate in these demonstrations. Above all, I think that the seizure of these student demonstrations has shown what can happen in the country if we are irresponsibly inviting people to the streets and taking pictures in front of them of the incredible scenarios of how students will have to look for their food by fishing in rivers and sleeping under bridges if such a law is adopted. This is not a promise for some sober debate that this country today needs to face the challenges facing it. I support the law on the exercise of rights from public resources, because it promises to ensure a just society, to provide effective assistance to all those in our community who need it, while also effectively preventing any abuse of this system, which, as it is said, undermines the solidarity nature of our community. And we must prevent that from being maintained by the social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u100	Thank you. Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Lois Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Gantar. [[He's not here.]] Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] The flower of Zalokar Orzam. [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Black Nebula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. To conclude, I don't have much time. I've said a lot in the introduction. Once again, I would like to point out that this system law makes this government a remarkable professional and logistical effort. We were told that the former government had somehow faced him. Therefore, there is a need to have some courage in addition to a well-thought-out approach. And I'm glad this government has it. But I must say that I share many of the concerns you have raised and related to the records. So maybe just as a thought. I myself estimate that the law should be enforced with 1. 1. 2011. If, perhaps in the records we already know that we could be hindered by the implementation of the law, we would not be considering a two-phase process. In particular, we are considering registering property in order to include it in the next procedure. What I really like about this law is that, in fact, we have tied social transfers and their payments somehow to professional work. What has always been an advantage of our system, although I must say that I too have been dealing with the so-called English model for some time where the payment of social transfers is entrusted to the administrative services. However, I am convinced that it is precisely because we are thinking about active social policy that any contact by a professional worker with those who do not have sufficient resources for their own existence, or that they also need other assistance from the State to actually direct and advise the beneficiary. Of course, I really hope that it will not only be a transfer of tasks, but a fair transfer of staff, because we know, under the limited human resources options it has set out for the purpose of this government, it is necessary to reduce somewhere else, to increase. Third thing. If I have managed to tell you in any way that the fairness of the system means not only sanctioning those who abuse the system, but a proactive attitude towards those who need the help of society are themselves not strong enough, courageous enough, they do not know for this help that it is necessary for the State or, above all, the competent services in connection with non-governmental organisations to host social networks and, in fact, leave no one in need of assistance from the State or society outside the system. Therefore, the reorganisation of activities should also be considered in an integrated manner. The following is, of course, a good target of social benefits. Maybe you missed it. Slovenia is already one of the more successful countries in directing its social transfers. For half of them, we are able to reduce the risk of poverty and, in fact, with the effects of social transfers, we achieve much more than many richer countries. I am confident that the implementation of this law will contribute even more to bringing this objective closer to being achieved. Finally, let me say that the system also means rationalisation. I once met with theirs in France, I'll say, bureaucracy, which held to its head and warned of the high cost of identifying and paying for aid. Associating in one place, a transparent system, a common definition and all that this law brings, I am convinced that it also means savings in favour of users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u102	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government of Dr. Digač Dark? You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. We conclude that we are already at the end of this first debate, so I would like to conclude that I am pleased that all the parliamentary groups have in principle agreed with only the assessment of the situation which is the basis for the drafting of this law. And also basically, with regard to the solutions themselves, there is a large degree of consensus. Of course, all these warnings that have been given in the public debate, as far as the performance itself is concerned, are welcome and we will also work together later in the second and third readings, because we are open to individual improvements of the law.We are aware that the implementation and implementation of this law is essential to the transfer of personnel, which is necessary and in which place I point out that none of the representatives from whom these personnel will be transferred must be in the pocket, if I say so, but it must be done that the social work centres will be able to do so. We are aware of this, and in this already mentioned implementation plan, we are congruent to all the powers of the Ministry in order to succeed or achieve it. It has also been pointed out on several occasions that this information base, this merger of bases, is necessary for the implementation of the law itself. I would like to point out once again that last year the Government has prepared an e-social project, which is actually the basis for the promised information for which it acquired such European funds and also brought together the powers of all ministries. This is a link between 25 databases that are currently separate in this country. It is a great deal that we are aware of and will have to work in the future. As for the care of coexistence and perhaps the express concern that we would not be able to fulfill the promise we made to the students in connection with the small work, as you have pointed out, that this law would not be enforced and then the small work law would run ahead of this law, we absolutely will, if the application changes, change the small work law, so this concern is absolutely overstated. Then there were some concerns about the financial assessments of the law. As you yourself have mentioned many times, it is indeed a major structural change that combines four key rights and eleven subsidies. In fact, it is a megaloma system, and I am pleased that you are also aware that perhaps financial assessments are not as accurate as other laws may be. We have made financial impact assessments and are also added, as they must be in law as such, with a problem, as the Minister has already pointed out, with an assessment of the extent to which the assets will affect the amount of social transfers that individual families or individual investors will then acquire. On the basis of some data from 2008 and the crossing of some records, we have come to the conclusion that this increase would be 5%, so we have also mentioned this in the law. Given the complexity of the system, we have done everything necessary at the Ministry to date, including various variations in what is happening with each family, with different family members in each family after the amendment of this law. That's how we have these calculations and simulations. Of course, it would be irresponsible if we didn't. As far as the complexity of the system mentioned by you is concerned, it would be difficult for an individual to understand the specific provisions of the law, I would like to point out here that the law provides for the possibility of an information calculation. This will be part of the application so that the individual can come to this informational calculation in a kind way. Of course, the functioning of this application will make this possible. And it's all a matter of development. I would say quite to the end that I am really pleased that we agree, but also in the further debate it is possible, given the very intensive phase of implementation and preparation of the implementation plan, if necessary and assessed on the basis of the implementation plans, at the conclusion of the law with only the implementation of the law, if all these precise reviews and implementation plans, which are currently under way, are also required of us. We would not want to set up a system in some way or to destroy the system so far. However, these are key records in the field of education, higher education and GURS records, as regards the valuation of real estate. These three records are actually crucial for the implementation of the law and, of course, for the production and testing of applications. So much for once, and more for the second law, where it is more about active social policy and other issues that are actually connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u104	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Rogers, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Chairman for your insight. I do not want to draw further into the debate, which was, as the State Secretary has also found in the concluding speech, supported by the law, to say so. I would just like to point out that you will also find the recommendations made by some of the future contractors of this law, especially in the local community, in the social protection of children, a common language and that the uncertainties will be clarified. At the same time, I hope that these calculations that you have made are approximate in the way that social benefits are to be affected by the fact that someone is the recipient of unemployment compensation or that these differences are large enough for people to still be included in these records. Perhaps we should not simply worry that unemployment will be low, but we would also like employment to be higher. Otherwise, in the area of property, which should have an impact on how much and what benefits someone would have received or would have received, I think it is also important that what is already in the presentation of views, I think that colleague Črnak Meglič said that this law should be not a project of the Ministry, but a project of the Government. since in many areas, in the area of property, more specific properties, it certainly touches another law. I hope that the solution that you have foreseen, and that is, if the property that, say, carries some income that is taxed, does not go into the calculation of the price of entitlement to social benefits, it is the right one. However, I think that maybe here with one thought, an interdisciplinary one, or, if you want, a ministerial one, you might also have some effect that is not the purpose of this law, but it would be useful for the country, as far as broadcasting is concerned, and so on. I hope that these things are also considered among the ministries and that the objectives of the law will be achieved. In addition to them, perhaps there is something else that is not the purpose of this law, but everyone in this Chamber would agree that he would be good for this country and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u106	Thank you. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, 26 May, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the day -- that's the first defensively proposed bill on social security benefits. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 16 Members and Members, with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State for Complementary Reasons. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This is a continuation and many of the points that we have discussed and concern this law have already been opened up in the debate on the previous law, the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. These two laws are in fact strongly linked and it is therefore right to deal with them together. However, if I now focus on this law, which is ahead of us right now, it is a law on social security benefits. The purpose of this law is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion and to promote work activity or to maintain motivation for work. This law is a key move that we want to make from the emphasis on passive social policy on the path of active or active social policy. The purpose of this law is also to transfer social security rights from the pension system to the social assistance system. For this reason, the security allowance and the state pension shall be transferred to the provisions of this Act. It is also another of the rights to be transferred, which is the right to compensation for disability, which has so far been laid down in the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically affected persons. That's what this is about. But the key solutions that are in the marriage are the following. A new amount of the basic amount of minimum income shall be determined. This is very important in terms of preventing the risk of poverty and social exclusion. On the basis of last year's study by the Institute for Economic Research on the minimum cost of living, which was presented and also the basis for raising the minimum wage, we raised this minimum income or minimum income to EUR 288,81, which means a 27% increase in terms of the current level of financial social assistance. For reasons of greater transparency, we establish two levels of minimum income under this law to cover the basic cost of living. This value is considered to be EUR 288 for temporary recipients of monetary social assistance, i.e. those who for a short period of time find themselves in this socio-economic situation in need of assistance from the State, but because this is a short period of time, they can avoid certain costs, such as housing maintenance and others, replacing durable goods, so this amount may be lower. The second height, however, is for those who are permanently unable to work, i.e. those for whom we cannot expect to be able to provide their activities with survival, whether they are permanently unemployed, or over 63 years old, for women, and 65 years, for men. For these we add a first-person security allowance of EUR 161, plus a cash social assistance of EUR 288, which means that these persons will be entitled to a substantially higher amount than at the moment, that is EUR 450.54. This is very important for the older population, which is currently also according to statistics of the population where the highest risk of poverty is. And the existing safeguard supplement does not do this well enough, and we believe that this solution will be much better in this area. The second main solution is a new equivalent scale, to what extent an individual member is considered within the family. In doing so, I would mention in particular the number of children's dependent family member. According to the previous system, the weighting was 0.3, which means that at the moment the children received 68 euros within the family, and according to the new proposal we raise this weight to 0.7, which means that they will receive a family that needs help and 202 euros for the child if the student is as much as 257 euros because we anticipate a higher weight for the students. An important innovation, which is very important in terms of the activation of these most excluded from the labour market, is the establishment of interinstitutional commissions of the Centre for Social Work and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, where special treatment will be directed to a group of unemployed who are more difficult to employ due to problems of dependence, mental problems and the like. We also add a higher subsidy to employers who employ recipients of monetary social assistance. Thus, from an active employment policy, we allocate resources as well as social protection funds, this is precisely to encourage employers to employ those most vulnerable. We introduce, this is important for this work activity, an activity allowance to be received by persons engaged in activities that are in a working relationship or that are involved in an active employment policy. In this way, we want to reward those who are trying to get out of their position with some activity, so that this individual’s passivity will not be rewarded, but an active approach by individuals to solving their social economic situation. It's about maintaining motivation for work. This allowance will be at two levels, depending on the scope of the work activity, i.e. if the volume of work will be between 60 and 128 hours per month, it will be €80.87 and €161.73 if more than 128 hours. We also introduce a more flexible demonstration of the dedicated use of exceptional financial social assistance. Here, for example, we have taken into account the comments made by the Union of Free Trade Unions, with which, and also by other social partners, we have led, as in the case of the first law, a very frank and long-standing discourse, we have taken into account, in terms of greater flexibility, the time in which they have to prove how they spend extraordinary financial assistance. We have taken into account the comments already made. There is also a need to mention a new solution to the definition of the single parent family, which is related to abuses that are unfortunately too many, as mentioned in the previous law. In this law, we define a single - parent family in a way that includes only children whose other parents have died or do not live with or receive funds. We only consider you a single parent family, thus preventing fraud in that someone applies on separate addresses and then applies as a single parent family, while still caring and paying for the development of his child. We also determine the assumption of the existence of an extra-marital community, which is linked again to many indications on this account, not to promote family values, family values, reporting, marriage relationships as such, because marriage solutions are more favourable from a material point of view for those who live in an extra-marital community and try to find different options, if we say under the terms "evil" to obtain higher rights from their position. So these are the key solutions that we believe will primarily improve the situation of the most vulnerable in our society. It should also be noted that the assumption within the social assistance system is that an individual is also obliged to activate his or her assets in order to resolve his or her socio-economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Social Security Benefits Act is due to changed circumstances and a new calculation of the minimum cost of living. It is an upgrade to today's inadequate law on monetary social assistance and is adapted to legal changes in other related areas. The amount of the current cash social assistance has started to be determined on the basis of the basic amount of the minimum income. The full amount was introduced gradually and in 2003 the total amount was reached and amounts to 226.80 euros. According to the equivalent scale, according to the law in force, cash social assistance is available for each of the next adults in the family 158,76 euros for a child under 18 years of age and for a full-time child who is obliged by parents to live through regular schooling, as already mentioned in the presentation, 48 euros and 4 cents. The current law also provides for exceptional financial social assistance to be granted to the beneficiary for reasons which could not be affected and are currently in material danger or will not last for more than two months. This is independent of his income, as it is actually an asset. The decision is linked to the free thinking of the Centre for Social Work. The amount is also limited here, as the amount per month cannot exceed the amount of one minimum income per single person or family and the amount of the one-time emergency assistance cannot exceed the amount of two of its minimum income in one calendar year. On the basis of the calculation of the Institute for Economic Research, the provisional minimum cost of living for a single adult is now EUR 385 and 8 cents. Real low minimum and average wages reduce motivation for work and stimulating relations between social protection and the labour market. Therefore, in the Zares-New Group, we support the thinking of the competent ministry, which by law introduces a minimum income of 75% of that amount, i.e. 288,81 euros. This is a monetary social assistance for working adults who have temporarily found themselves in a difficult social situation because of different circumstances and who are 52 euros and a cent higher than before. For all those who are permanently unable to work or are permanently unemployed or over 65 years of age, a protective allowance of EUR 161 and 73 cents is also required under the law. However, the calculation shows that, together, such an individual could receive an amount of €450 and a half, which in today's situation actually means satisfactory not to say higher social inclusion and quality of life. In the Group of Members, we have really put important emphasis on the transfer of certain benefits to the system of monetary social assistance and the so-called new protection allowance. I am talking about the anticipated pension reform, which has already been given a few speeches today, because by modernising it from the pension fund, we are transferring transfers of a social nature that do not result from paid contributions, such as in the notes, the old social security allowance or the state pension. This is why it is so important that, in line with social changes, we insist on the introduction of a pension reform based on individual payments or NDC, Notional Defined Contribution, i.e. on so-called accounts, in Nordic countries, they also know them as orange envelopes in which each month those who pay social security receive a written amount that they have paid so far. On this basis, they can also conclude on their social security at an age. This system prevents the opacity and opacity that we are witnessing today. Social inclusion is undoubtedly linked to the higher motivation of an individual to work, and stimulation, as represented by the introduction of an activity allowance, which proposes a higher minimum income for active recipients of financial social assistance, is even more justified. The amount of the additive shall be 161,73 or 80,9 euros. The irregularity of the labour market also requires the introduction of a more flexible regime for the granting of exceptional financial social assistance. According to the Ministry, after a new proof of the intended use of the aid to be used within 30 days of receipt, the recipient will submit the aid within 30 days of the receipt at the latest when the new application is submitted. If we have discussed the importance of preventing abuse at the time of consideration of the previous law, we should continue here. The law introduces a new legal presumption of the existence of a non-legislative community, a new definition of indirect income and the introduction of a new way of taking account of assets and identifying income from activities. Sanctions in the event of abuse are exacerbated, but it is important to pay particular attention to appropriate and effective controls which, unfortunately, are not always working well. The main consequences of the law introduce a redistribution of social transfers towards greater justice and prevention of accumulation and abuse. This is an important content that we will support in this context of the procedure in the Group of Members - a new policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party in everyone's right to decide their fate. Our goals are to create a situation in which everyone will have the opportunity to develop their abilities, desires, talents and knowledge. The freedom of individual decision-making also includes the responsibility of each individual to himself, his family and society at all. In this spirit of our programme starting point, we have examined both proposed laws in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which are fundamentally changing the system of social security benefits so far. The adoption of a completely new system of social benefits at the time of the economic and financial crisis is on the one hand a necessity and, on the other hand, in the Slovenian People's Party we point out that the Government must be very careful to intervene in social rights and take sufficient time to examine the consequences of the proposed changes. So why rush and rush? The law should be dealt with in a package with a proposal for a reform of the pension system, as the common effects of many will be touched. The urgency has led to the idea that the Government is proposing changes just to regulate the budget and it is best to start with social rights instead of taking timely structural changes and reducing public spending. It is right that eligibility for State social assistance is generally conditioned by willingness to work or improve its situation. It is a very worrying fact that the number of young recipients of state social assistance is increasing. The conditions for re-economic growth need to be ensured. According to the Government, the current system of state social assistance has shown quite a few weaknesses that it wants to correct by means of this law. We could even agree on that in part. In particular, it can be agreed that the current amount of State social assistance is not sufficient to cover the basic minimum cost of living, as of course even minimum wages or pensions are not sufficient on the other hand. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we advocate positive discrimination against the family in a moral and material sense. Legislation must therefore be encouraging for families. The legislation should promote the quality and strength of the family and the legal community. In particular, young families need to be given better opportunities, first of all by providing jobs and conditions to address housing problems, which is one of the basic conditions for common family life. We are convinced that the country must promote family life also through tax policy and in the form of material incentives, which we understand as measures of family policy, independent of the social situation of the individual. Therefore, we pay particular attention to the provisions concerning family benefits. Of course, there are also many plays in the area of so-called family social benefits, as in practice certain circumstances are difficult to verify. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the changes that will regulate such manipulations. The pension reform provides for the transfer of the social security allowance and state pension in the pension area to the social security benefit system. I suppose this will lead to a different path to these benefits than it is now. State pension is given and is also psychologically important, or the emphasis is on the word pension and the word protection supplement. These benefits are said to be even higher than they are now, and will even improve this situation. However, the basic purpose of the social adjustment allowance is to improve the material security of beneficiaries with the lowest pensions, and we rightly expect that farmers' pensioners will be included in the new law because our law, which we proposed at the time, has been rejected. At the time, it was said that we would arrange it later to arrange the system, and now we think it's time for that too. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we oppose the deletion of the state pension, which was adopted years ago on the proposal of the SLS. We caution that we should remain in the system of pensions primarily because of this psychological aspect. Please think about it. We look at measures and the determination of the new amount of State social assistance in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in terms of the principle of solidarity, which does not mean social assistance to an individual or a social group in a way or in a scale which in any way reduces their responsibility or motivation for work, creation and development. It is therefore therefore necessary to harmonise the views of the way and the level of the threshold of poverty and minimum living income with the social partners. It is therefore necessary to examine carefully how a new amount of State social assistance will be determined on the basis of a new level of determination of the basic amount of minimum income and the equivalent scale used to determine the minimum income for an individual family member to be based, according to the Government, on the findings of the new survey on minimum cost of living. At this point, however, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity that the country is primarily obliged to create conditions for everyone to take care of themselves. Nor would it be wrong to provide that it would be mandatory to take up work when this option arises, for example, seasonal aid in municipal regulation, such as assistance to people in need and so on. If these people refused, it would be normal for this right to be taken away from them, or this supplement. In the Slovenian People's Party, as an opposition party, we are cautious about measures and require sufficient time to study and submit more relevant calculations and data. We do not want to sit on just high-pitched words about the introduction of higher and permanent aid. Structural changes must pass on lasting solutions, not just taking from one pocket and putting into another. Before the final decision to support the law, we want to ensure that it does not create new injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In view of the fact that both so-called social laws in connection with the new regulation of the benefits of the protection allowance, I continue to take this point of the agenda with regard to the position of the DeSUS Group on this right. As has already been said, by transferring transfers from the pension register of what it is, depending on the nature of the purpose of the right and its dependence on the payment of the contributions, we do not belong, we are clearing the pension register. By separating the social benefits from the net pension benefits financed by the contributions collected for pension and disability insurance, we will also ensure a more transparent operation of the pension fund. Such a measure is certainly also necessary in the light of the modernisation of the pension system. So far, the basic purpose of the social adjustment allowance has been to improve the material security of the beneficiaries with the lowest pensions. The new protective allowance will be amended accordingly in order to ensure, as a social correction, the material security not only of the recipients of the lowest old, disabled, widowed and family pensions, but depending on the fulfilment of other conditions. This is the age limit, the facts of permanent unemployment or inability to work and, of course, other income or property prices. The circle of beneficiaries changes slightly — according to our assessment as appropriate, with actual circumstances and the pursuit of the concept of social justice. The adoption of the proposal for this law and the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds will allow the re-establishment of minimum income and consequently the new higher value of monetary social assistance. The minimum income, which is the basis for monetary social assistance, should be based on the minimum needs or minimum cost of living, thus ensuring at least a minimum and normal inclusion in community life for the beneficiary. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the establishment of a new, higher amount of monetary social assistance in the light of the adjustment to the socio-economic situation is inevitably necessary, and therefore, in principle, we agree with the proposed regulation, but in our opinion there is a fear that the proposed arrangement for the increase of this type of social assistance in individuals would result in a loss of motivation for work. In this context, on the one hand, it is very welcome and, on the other hand, such concerns even make it necessary to increase monetary social assistance by adding extras to activities whose amount depends on the monthly work done. In our view, this should certainly encourage individuals to have a more responsible attitude toward work. At the same time, it would encourage the feeling that they can be properly rewarded for their activities and efforts in the search for employment. However, there is also a fear in this connection that there will be in practice a variety of speculations that are also happening now. One possible option is to reject any other forms of employment. Let's say full-time, because the cash social assistance raised for the activity allowance will provide them with only slightly less total benefits per month for significantly less working hours compared to the benefits of possible regular employment. Laws in the field of labour law will soon be introduced into the legislative procedure, whose changes are projected in the direction of labour market flexibility. In connection with the proposed arrangements for financial social assistance for the unemployed and its increase in the form of an activity allowance, we have some concerns in the DeSUS Group. The forms of holiday employment, which will undoubtedly not only be encouraged, but not only will many be left with no alternative but to be served because of the bare survival, they do not offer material independence and social security in the long run, nor can they be associated with the proposed increase in cash assistance due to activities, and the consequences can also be negatively reflected in people's personal and social lives. Despite the concerns mentioned above, we support both laws in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u115	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In the Slovenian National Party, we took the view that it was indeed a time for the Government to finally draw up a proposal for a law on social security benefits, as well as a proposal for a law that we have considered under the previous item. It seems to us that the proposed law will indeed improve the regulation of monetary social assistance rights so far. At least we hope so. For all too many are the anomalies and shortcomings that occur in the implementation of the current applicable law. The basic guide must be that only those and only those who are entitled to it and who are effectively verified, are able to obtain financial social assistance, proveable, have no other means of surviving and covering the basic cost of living. We are thinking of the need to take into account the different criteria applicable to decision-making on monetary social assistance, i.e. the ability of beneficiaries to work or any employment, their age, as well as health status, which we do not see in the proposal, and in particular their work activity prior to making applications. These criteria should be adapted in an elastic manner to the level of monetary social assistance. In fact, the situation and experience show that the beneficiaries or beneficiaries of social assistance can be very different persons, from very different social, economic and family environments, with very different job opportunities and employment opportunities, with a very different real estate situation and, last but not least, with very different backgrounds and a willingness to take care of their own existence and not just to count on the welfare and generosity of social state institutions. We are aware that consistent uniform criteria are not an easy task and will require a lot of good judgement and a sense of non-criminal assessments and evaluations, and thus the adverse consequences of unnecessary ex-post procedures. The main motto must be fairness, a real assessment of the property situation of applicants and family members and so on. Among the main objectives of the proposed amendments, let me mention only some which we consider meaningful and must be followed in the Slovenian National Party. In particular, it is intended to establish a new level of cash assistance in order to prevent the worst of poverty and to ensure that minimum living needs are met for survival and also to adjust the amount of the basic minimum income to a new calculation of the current minimum cost of living for different types of recipients. Especially for those who are permanently unable to work, permanently unemployed persons and older citizens and citizens. And there's a category I could count. The novelty is also the introduction of two child supplement heights, for children up to the age of 18 years and for those over the age of 18 whose social security would be guaranteed by other public funding rights, including within the State Grant Scheme. The introduction of more effective criteria is a welcome measure to rationalise budgetary expenditure in the allocation of monetary social assistance. Above all, there is a need to ensure greater promotion of the recipients of social assistance for employment and the preservation of motivation for work. Indeed, it is incontrovertible that there are a number of instances where individuals with skilled use of monetary social assistance rights and other subsidies, under the terms "deserves" more than a number of poorly paid workers for eight hours a day of work. Not to mention a variety of irregular wage provision, while social assistance comes regularly, on a specific date. Of course, all of this neither discourages or motivates users to seek work at all. Not to mention the great diversity and very different social family relations of the beneficiaries of the aid. On the one hand, we have older citizens and citizens who have worked hard for 20, 30 and more years, and then, due to objective causes and circumstances, they become unemployed, for example, because of the general economic crisis, because of bankruptcy, and also because of other reasons that they cannot personally influence. Such persons are not fair to those who have never worked, nor have they had to do so with the existing system, but live a comfortable, carefree life and invest all their energy solely in considering the abuse of the existing lack of social assistance system. This is not just about individuals or exceptional cases. It is a number of representatives of a particular group of people; you all know who it is, but I would rather not expose them so that no one sees them again in any hate speech or inciting intolerance. In short, if I express myself directly and without negligent rhetoric, we must not in any way encourage chronic leniency and speculators to leniency and abuse social assistance or tax money. In setting new criteria or criteria for determining minimum income and also the level of financial social assistance, the actual material position of the applicant, it is necessary to approach the various objectives, otherwise the proposed law will miss its purpose. As I have already mentioned in the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, they impose on the centres for social work a difficult task and powers to decide on the eligibility of the exercise of these rights. The Centre for Social Work will have to carefully assess each time the actual situation or actual social security or the threat to the applicant, the beneficiary and, on the other hand, to reduce or even abolish the right to financial social assistance. In a sense, it is a specific right or authority where, in cases of low or no own income, the beneficiary or his family members of his family may demonstrate a completely different way of life and other external signs of his actual social situation. The amount of social assistance will then be adjusted, which is particularly welcome. This is therefore a rather free mindset, which is necessary in view of the situation. However, we are particularly pleased by the consensus of all parliamentary groups on both proposed laws in some way. And we cannot really commend the proposer for taking up this challenging project that was necessary, and I hope that they are both among the wisest laws that this government has ever undertaken in recent times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! We are confident of the Law on Social Security Benefits at the LDS Club in the same way as in the previous law that it improves its solutions so far to the solution of monetary social assistance and adapts to new solutions, more uniform and clear rules for the payment of aid. It is therefore important to emphasise the legal changes relating to the payment of these financial social assistance. In the LDS, we support the increase in financial social assistance and the solution to introduce two levels of aid, one for short-term material recovery, and the other, higher, in case of permanent loss of opportunity to work, where there is no one to care for an individual, or it could cover its costs through property or other income. The number of recipients of monetary social assistance has decreased in line with the economic improvement in recent years. So in 2008 58 thousand were poor. In view of the economic financial crisis, this figure increased again to around 77 000 in 2009, which, of course, was expected in the light of the financial and economic situation. There is a large number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, currently around 42% of those who have received assistance at least 24 times in three years, which means that they are long-term dependent on this aid. These are groups of people who are most concerned and, in the opinion of the LDS, they need to be prepared forms of aid that will be adapted and that will allow individuals from this group to do at least occasional work, to work with a reduced worker and so on. The worst is the longevity of absence from the labour market, to which there is no return, and this means a vicious circle of solutions and dependence on social assistance. Statistics also show worrying data that the proportion of young people between the 18th and 26th years among recipients of financial social assistance is increasing, which is an additional concern, as it is a population that has not even begun to work that has not gained employment habits and that dependence on aid can be even more fatal. In our opinion, this population needs to be given special attention, as without employment they will not be able to take responsibility for their lives, nor will they be able to take on their own. This shows what they also recognise in the Ministry, not an inadequate form of aid and incentives to find work for recipients of money aid, although the measures in the Active Employment Policy Programme have set them out, but have not always proved in practice. This is one of the weaknesses of the current system and should therefore be corrected. The new law also clearly sets out the need for cooperation between social work centres and employment agencies in the search for employment for recipients of financial social assistance. In the LDS, it seems to us that there is a stimulating solution to the proposal for a law proposing that the work activities of recipients of money and social assistance be rewarded, and that is why we support it. This is how we support a solution that introduces an activity allowance for an individual who proposes a higher minimum income for them, namely an activity allowance of €161,73 or €80,865, depending on how many hours per month a person is working. This seems to us to be a good way of encouraging us to find a job or a job, for in our view, all recipients of aid must aim to find work and work to meet their needs and to regulate their social status. On the basis of the new calculations so far, the level of financial social assistance is no longer sufficient to cover the basic minimum cost of living. The bill will thus increase the level of monetary social assistance nominally by €62, which is positive for all recipients. The new amount will be 288,81 euros, representing 75% of the estimated minimum cost of living. The monetary social assistance is thus reduced below the estimated value, which seems logical to us in terms of incentives and incentives for work, because if we want to maintain incentives for finding jobs, then the minimum wages and monetary social assistance cannot and should not be nearly equal. That is why we support this solution in the LDS, because we believe that all efforts must be focused on job and work provision and higher levels of employment. In the LDS, we also support a solution that will help individuals who are permanently unable to work, unemployed or over 65 years of age, men, and 63, women, to improve the situation and reduce the risk of poverty in particular for retired single persons with low incomes, as they will also be able to apply for a security allowance of EUR 161.73, thus bringing together a good EUR 450. This supplement is meant primarily in the light of the fact that it is for people who are no longer able to work and that they also need to be given other activities in life, not just survival, that is, the exchange of durable goods, and the restoration of housing and the like. It is a matter of maintaining human dignity that is not only forced to live in the long run, but that it can function as normal as possible as other inhabitants. In the light of the future pension reform, we think it is the right solution for the pension fund to be freed from all social transfers. These are the right to a security allowance and the right to a state pension. They are both transferred to a system of social security benefits. Payments from the pension fund should be made to those who have contributed to it, otherwise there will be a mix of rights and impreciseness. This seems even more important to us before the reform of the pension system. In view of the new solutions for monetary social assistance, these two rights will also be subject to certain changes. Thus, the eligibility of a state pension will be linked to the price to obtain the right to financial social assistance by means of a protective allowance. The security allowance shall take into account the scale for monetary social assistance and shall also take account of all family members and, particularly important, account shall be taken of the assets. In this way, we will also align these two rights with other social aids and subsidies and, in the view of the LDS, finally have the opportunity to establish a single social assistance system. From this point of view, of course, it also makes sense to transfer the right to compensation for disability and the allowance for aid and service provided by the Social Protection Act to the social rights system, which also imposed on the State by the Constitutional Court since it had already given a one-year deadline for this to be settled in 2007. Persons with disabilities are already fundamentally more affected and socially disadvantaged than all other categories of the population, and it is logical that they should be provided with minimum social security through social transfers. There are several other solutions in the law that will bring more order to social assistance, as well as greater adjustment to the needs of those seeking help. Thus, a more flexible regime for exceptional financial social assistance is proposed, as the recipient will provide proof of the intentional use of the aid to be used within 30 days of receipt at the latest when the new application for exceptional financial social assistance is submitted. There will also be fewer opportunities for abuse, and more consistent reasons for misrepresenting false data and thus for ineligible for monetary social assistance will be regulated. All of these are mechanisms that can restore or strengthen confidence in the country to help those who need it most to be quick, accessible and effective so as to resolve the difficult situations that have arisen in the family and in the individual or on the other hand, making it possible for a person to live a life worth living. It is essential that the level of financial social assistance increases and will continue to increase over the next three years. However, transfers within the system follow the principles of greater fairness and greater aid for older persons with disabilities, while in other categories it aims at rewarding employment and employment and also aims at helping to find employment for more difficult categories of the population. In LDS, we view the law as a good law and we will support it at first reading and follow any comments that might yet be added to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u118	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u119	Dear Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, once again welcome! The proposed law on social security benefits in a package with a proposal for a law on the enforcement of rights from public funds represents fundamental reforms in the field of social transfers in Slovenia. The Social Security Benefits Act is based on the current Social Protection Act, which regulates both benefits and activities. These contents are intended to be reordered in two different laws. The proposed law regulates benefits, and the law governing social protection is still pending, and only with it and other related laws that we expect will social protection reform be comprehensively rounded up. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which we have dealt with today, mainly regulates the basis for determining the actual social situation of beneficiaries, the procedures for granting transfers, the order or relationship between individual rights, which do not necessarily have the role of social transfer alone, but which may also have a demographic or developmental function. The Social Security Benefits Act, however, provides comprehensively for the scope of the benefits, the task of which is to ensure social security for those who need such assistance from the State. One of the most important novelties of the proposed law is the rise in the level of financial social assistance. The higher amount is due to a new assessment of the minimum cost of living ordered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and has shown a deep underestimation of the current value of the minimum income, which is the basis for determining the level of financial social assistance. A survey of the minimum cost of living carried out by the Institute of Economic Research showed that the minimum cost of living for a single person for a shorter period of EUR 385 and the permanent minimum cost of living for the same person was EUR 562 per month. As a result of these findings, the law also provides for different amounts of social benefits, one for persons who are able to work, who are expected to receive monetary social assistance for a shorter period, and another for those who are permanently unable to take care of their social security through work. For those who need help in the long term, account must also be taken of certain costs which do not show up in the short term. The law introduces a minimum income of 75% of the minimum cost of living found, which is justified by the level of minimum wage, motivation for work and the incentive ratio between the level of social benefits and the lowest wage. The activity allowance is intended to encourage work. In this law it represents an addition to such a fixed minimum income and consequently constitutes a higher basis for the establishment of monetary social assistance only for those individuals who are active in the labour market. Of course, we support the activation of individuals to resolve their own situation by stimulating them, but we note that the calculation of the minimum cost of living is a fact, and the achievement of the calculated minimum income with their own income and with the assistance of society should be a target that should be provided to all individuals within a certain period of time. The implementation of this objective should be planned in the law, if not today, in the context of the economic crisis, at the current level of minimum and average wages, at least for a certain period of time. This view is also supported by the results of the survey, which show that not all recipients of monetary social assistance are objectively in the same position to become active. In research. carried out on a representative sample, it was found that almost one fifth of the current recipients of cash social assistance are facing serious health problems and have no disability status, which undoubtedly affects their ability to activate. At the same time, they face higher costs for medicines and medical devices that cannot be settled. In the SD Group, we therefore propose to consider supplementing the transitional provisions of the law in order to progressively enforce the integrated 100 per cent minimum income level as a basic basis for determining the level of monetary social assistance. At the same time, we support the direction of the law, which promotes the speedy activation of unemployed people entitled to financial social assistance, as it represents a positive shift from passive to active social policy. A concrete positive action is an activity allowance, which, contrary to the regulation so far, also rewards those who are themselves trying to be active in order to find work and take care of their social security. However, at the time of implementation of this guideline, it is essential that the State co-exists with its other policies the conditions for higher employment and, if not employment, for other forms of social exclusion, while this option is not yet sufficiently exploited. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support and vote in favour of the proposed law on social security benefits for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The current arrangements for the monetary social assistance system are laid down by the Social Protection Act, which was last amended by the mandate of the former Government, focusing primarily on addressing the family assistants' issues, promoting the employment of beneficiaries of financial social assistance, cash assistance and inspection. The purpose of the new law is, according to the Government, to establish a more just and long-term stable social state with a more transparent and simpler system. In this way, financial social assistance is expected to rise to a level that ensures that the minimum cost of living is met. This is a matter of positive changes, for which it is not yet clear what concrete effects will be. This is illustrated by different criteria in different areas and given the financial implications of a rather interesting transfer of funds from one to another. The Ministry has also designed a model for more prudent distribution of budgetary resources under the criterion of duration of social hazard by introducing two levels of minimum income to cover basic costs of life, namely for recipients of cash social assistance, which, due to changed living conditions, only for a limited period or time, can come into an unfavourable social situation and at that time can be avoided by certain expenditure, and on the other hand for recipients of financial social assistance, which cannot be expected to return to profitable work or to work of a permanently incapacitated person or persons over 65 years of age, men, and 63 years of age, women who are also required to cover the cost of living which they cannot avoid for a long period of time. In theory, it is still somehow understandable, but we fear that practice will show enormously under criteria that the Ministry may not be able to give the right answers or amounts in practice. And that's the real problem of social protection with us. The law aims to achieve a level playing field with amendments to the legislation on pension insurance. It is the transfer of the right to a social security allowance and a state pension from the pension area to a system of social security benefits, the consideration of the child allowance in the family's own income in the area of family benefits from employment and the transfer of the right to compensation for disability and to an allowance for foreign care and assistance in the social welfare system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fear that the law will have exactly the opposite effect from what is desired. Instead of genuine simplification of procedures, the system will result in many adjustments, anomalies and very likely discontents of citizens who will suddenly look at different amounts, and for specific answers will go from door to door for reasonable answers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support that the Government, by amending legislation, wants to encourage unemployed recipients of social assistance to do more work by adding to the activity of weightings, of course. The laudable measure is particularly at this time, where the figures show that it is precisely because of the government's inaction that there has been a huge increase in unemployment and, on the other hand, the economic indicators for the last year show an inexorable shipwreck, which ranks us far for Greece on a case-by-case basis. Allow me to draw attention to a few more facts in the position of the Group of Members. The social protection system is completely old and needs a thorough overhaul. The desire for a complete overhaul was expressed in the previous term, but despite the favourable conditions of the current opposition, the unions and many others. Because of the deteriorating economic situation, the vulnerability of individuals and families is increasing. The number of recipients of monetary social assistance increased significantly in 2009. The rate of poverty is rising. In doing so, I should like to express my concern about this phenomenon, which is likely to be disagreed with by those who have seen poverty at every corner in the highest economic growth and the lowest unemployment rate in the previous term. Now they're all quiet. We are proposing to the government whether the social protection system is indeed regulated in a comprehensive manner by this law. We believe that, despite the good intentions of the applicants, the law still allows unnecessary additional administration, so that the system of granting financial social assistance and the protection allowance is irritated by the establishment of commissions, and on the other hand not all the necessary human resources are provided, particularly the transfer of personnel from STIZ. The largest group of recipients of monetary social assistance is of the unemployed. The bill foresees that a special committee will be formed to decide on their rights, which will draw up an opinion. We draw attention to the problem of a lack of adequate and sophisticated system of adequate information support. That's what we talked about in the previous marriage. We propose the accelerated functioning of the competent ministry, so that all the sub-legislative rules which must be issued before the application of this law can take place in due time. The assessment of the financial implications of the law, as I have already mentioned, is very vague and very lacking. It is not clear whether the necessary budgetary resources to ensure social security under this law will be increased or reduced. This is about €265 million and the explanation of the financial implications is intended for less than one party. The individual figures in the financial part do not correspond to the substantive part, in particular the introduction. The number of recipients of cash social assistance varies by several thousand at different ends. The main focus is on the precise indication of the budget lines from which the funds are transferred, and almost zero estimates are made of the number of recipients of individual cash social assistance or of the security allowance. The number of recipients will be significantly changed due to the new prices, the new way in which income is added, the new definitions of persons to be taken into account in determining the material situation. In addition, the word on the child allowance, which is included in the income. One of the biggest problems of the current regime, the possible abuse of family income, will not be resolved by this law. Property, immovable property, can only be taken into account after the implementation of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. I took an interest in reading all the reactions of the current coalition in the previous term, which had a lot of comments and criticism when they similarly wanted to include their scholarships in family income. An interesting conversion, which is actually becoming a practice in the current government. The student’s work is not in the common family treasury, but in the children’s allowance. It will be interesting to hear the arguments of this decision. With regard to the safety supplement. In the previous mandate, we paid the weakest pensioners an allowance, which is what we wanted in this mandate, but it was the government's majority against. According to the bill, the bill provides that 15 000 300 recipients of a less protective supplement will be in force when this law is implemented, so we are talking about a third. Clearly, poverty is no longer among the elderly. We wonder whether this time DeSUS will make this change conditional on leaving the government, as was the case in the previous mandate. Well, let me finish and touch the law enforcement. In our view, the law will not achieve its purpose if it cannot be enforced. They are responsible for the implementation of social work centres, which are not prepared to do so. The transfer of employees from ZPIZ will not solve the problem. It is also questionable to carry out a verification procedure for all recipients so far to be carried out by social work centres after official duty within three months of the entry into force of the law to all recipients of financial social assistance and a protective allowance. Well, there's still a lot of questions open. Many solutions will be difficult to implement in practice. The financial implications are unclear, but we hope that, together with all of the legislative proposals, we will find appropriate answers by the time we adopt them. This is a law aimed at Slovenes and Slovenians, and we want the government and the coalition to listen to the opposite arguments or to give relevant answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u122	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Potočni has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think that the two laws that we are addressing today in an emergency session are absolutely necessary, useful and, in my opinion, involve or include all that is necessary in order to somehow connect and combine all the rights that belong to our citizens and citizens who are in trouble and who need help, in fact almost entirely in one package. In this way we will also have a review of the allocation of these funds, and I am convinced that doubts about the capacity of our social work centres are not in place, because they will eventually have a collection of data that they have not yet had access to. I think that in these laws and in extending or modifying the way scholarships and child support are granted, a very important step has been taken towards universal basic income. Of course, this is not in the law, not in one or the other, but in the way that we connect and combine all data on monetary social assistance, on other social transfers that the State grants to citizens and citizens, we are slowly coming to what we could actually introduce for all citizens and citizens in a relatively short period of time, in order to substantially change the system, including the tax system and the wage system, not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector. I hope that this will actually be the first step towards universal basic income and that we will reach phase one in this mandate, that is to say about €250 to €300 of universal basic income. This will completely relieve all social services that are now dealing with records, sharing, data collection, data verification and so on, because, of course, there will be no need for such control. But solidarity in the country will be universal. This is what we should achieve in our country sooner or later. It is said that the solidarity of all layers, all groups, all ages, all social groups, and also ultimately the solidarity of capital owners, workers and those who live only from their work, not from the exploitation of foreign work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Kek. He's not here. Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is clear that I will support the proposed conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. I will not walk through the entire law, but I will justify what I think, in fact, in all the consideration of the valuable concerns that someone is making, the fundamental acquisition of this proposal. If nothing else had been done by the Ministry, rather than a new assessment of the actual cost of survival of an individual, a significant step would have been taken. Because at a time of prosperity, at a time when some said that we were living in the Golden Age, I faced those who did not want to admit that poverty was in the country, some saw bread in the dumpsters for nothing, and the fact is that the poor existed then and that the poor now exist. The question is how we are dealing with this problem and how much we are committed to solidarity to help them overcome social distress. And here I think it is essential that there is a certain difference in the amount of resources needed for those who are found for a shorter time in social distress and for those who live in a single-member household and who are actually significantly higher in the long run. Slovenia has always been considered a country where the difference between income received and the poverty threshold is addressed by social transfers and so is the case. It is true, however, that transparency and cost-effectiveness must also be made, so that the aid actually affects those who need help. That is why I believe that the introduction of a single entry point and a one-time application will, however, improve the control system by order of all these benefits. I would not want those who need help to find themselves in such a situation for the first time to find themselves in an even worse situation because the amount of their benefits is being recalculated a year ago. This has been pointed out to me in my office by those who have been unemployed or under current difficulties, because everything has been done according to the incomes of the previous year. In the past year, someone else was employed and had a very different income for the family member than he was when he was in distress. I see this possibility, just as we have found a solution in the School Diet Act, where, at the request of the beneficiary at school, they have the opportunity to react and respond adequately to the current crisis and help the individual in a moment without delay. Of course, it would be good if those people who have to be helped by social transfers were to be helped in the country as little as possible, but the increase in those we are experiencing is also accompanied by an increase in funds intended to manage the situation. It seems to me that last year the country has found the legal basis for such actions or reactions to bad conditions, so it is difficult for me to agree that some continue to compare us with Greece and force us closer to them. The reason is that we do not have to compare ourselves with Greece. I hope that this law, like some others, encourages the economy, is strong enough to ensure that Slovenia successfully tackles the crisis in such a way that there will be no excessively severe psychological and other consequences on people, but will preserve their dignity and self-confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u127	Nice greetings to all present. This law is also trying to systematically regulate matters, but unfortunately it cannot eliminate them all. I'll support the marriage. But the numbers themselves show that we are coming up with a purely conceptual dilemma. This is how we meet three different starting points for minimum benefits. The calculation of the minimum cost of living is already classified in two categories, amounting to €385 as the sum needed by an individual to meet current needs, €562 for slightly more lasting human needs. Then we got the number 288, which represents 75% of the basket. Thus, the basic category of social support is essentially administratively defined, the ratio is in fact set to a minimum wage, as the increase in this minimum standard would actually undermine people's search for a job. However, in the long term, at least EUR 385 should be approached as a minimum to cover the current costs of an individual. How will the recipient with 288 euros ensure 100% coverage of minimum costs if the country is actually giving him an administrative level? Secondly, in fact, a purely conceptual question is what to include in the individual's remuneration and what is in fact an allowance to cover costs. In fact, what an individual receives means to him is analogous to his personal income to his net personal income, while the other is to cover transport costs, for lunch and so on. This dilemma is manifestly justified. Are these scholarships, covering the costs of study and, on the other hand, the children’s allowance, or is that a family allowance? I do not know what criteria the Government has taken here that these two categories have actually classified in two separate areas. It would be correct to take this distinction into account in all these transfers and additions. Covering the costs that, say, disabled people need for their lives and for disability aids, and another is income that means some social transfer. One more question. We've heard that there will be about 15,000 pensioners without a protective allowance. What does this transfer to the social work centre mean in terms of the status of these people? Will their income be reduced by this or will they come back through the other door? This would also be useful to clarify, and I think there will be an opportunity for us to answer these questions when this law is concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. We are talking about an important, necessary topic, which, of course, by means of social transfers certainly solves one of the issues — the issue of survival, of existence. On the other hand, the issue that solves something supports this trend. But he's asking a bunch of other questions, which I don't think we have the right solutions in society. As mayor, I'll tell you a few cases, of course, that people who live on social transfers have higher incomes and live better than, say, workers in Pek or Cablex who are on a guaranteed salary. That this group of people receiving social transfers also includes people who are, after years, physical and mental powers and fitness at the peak of power. Not long ago, I had a meeting with a 25-year-old who is a single mother on paper, and in practice, it's a little different. We receive over €360 from the Centre for Social Work, children's documents and have free kindergarten in our congregation as an unemployed person. When I ask my lady what is by profession, if we can help her find a job, of course, she was already rather unvoluntary. Finally, as mayor, I feel like I'm obviously from another world, because if she goes to work as a waitress, she'll lose a lot of privileges, and by the end of the month, when she draws the line, she'll have less to do than she does now. I told her, listen to the young lady, this theory of yours holds, just for you to have these contributions, blame your backs for significantly lower income for people in the labour intensive sectors. This is a problem, what kind of thinking, what kind of example do we create in young people? Many Slovenian municipalities also have the possibility of granting a single cash social assistance amounting to €200 to €300 for exceptional cases. Let me tell you some of my own experiences. When these people come for help, I ask if they are willing to participate, volunteer on the Red Cross, Karitas, help with the organization, the simplest, what sports events or do a few volunteer hours in the nursing home as an aid, companion or at any event, then the interest in any assistance will be extinguished. Everyone's interested in getting something. This responsibility, to give back to society, we obviously didn't create it. I don't think that's right. After consultation with colleagues in the parliamentary group who are even better at handling the issue, we have come to the conclusion that one possible solution is also finishing or upgrading the law on volunteering. Of course, the responsibility is great if, as a congregation, a local community, or a society, you send someone to a simple job, and something happens to him or something like that, these things should be arranged for life and not always have rights in front of them. I've said many times that justice and duty are and must be identical twins who walk with their hands in hand. I have to tell you that it is difficult to understand people who work hard eight-year-olds, but also through the windows of their jobs they look at those who live from social transfers, are well dressed in the middle of the morning, occupy places in elite cafes, and children are educated or provided in kindergartens by others. And here in addition to social transfers, our great task is to do something for people's consciousness. It is no shame to receive social assistance far from this. This is some right, but it also has some responsibilities. And if you're allowed something by the company, it gives you something, then you have to have the responsibility to try to offer it something back. On the other hand, I also have information from practice that there are very many addicts among the recipients of different transfers and aid. Therefore, it is also necessary to improve the system in this area so that those who misuse these funds for purposes other than real are not paid in cash, but are paid with the direct payment of rents, bills and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Even at this point, colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot, so I decided not to talk about this matter again. I'll support the marriage myself at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. [[No, no, ……]] Love Germich could have a word if it was time, but he's gone. He wants a word with the Minister, the representative of the government? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. As we conclude, I again owe some clarifications to the issues raised in the debate. As before, I am glad that we all agree with these key solutions. That this needs to be regulated — in particular the amount of financial social assistance in order to ensure social security for those who need it. At the same time, it has more than the right to require individuals to act and assume part of their responsibilities in this direction in accordance with an agreement we accept in society under law. The issue of urgency with this law was raised by the Slovenian People's Party. I would like to point out that there is no hurry behind here to have the law drawn up for a long time, since we have already announced the drafting of this law last year, and it is also being discussed together with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which it is also substantively linked to, and so is. It has been pointed out that the Government would only want to balance the state budget with this law. In this place, I would strongly deny it. I'll tell you why. With the increase in monetary social assistance, which is one of the key solutions to this law, we also raise the threshold for those who are entitled to this right, based on today's current calculations, according to our data, these beneficiaries will be 50 thousand more. So we are substantially raising the level of social security for those who need it most. The analysis we have carried out on the basis of the funds we have provided and transferred to the population in the past period shows that, in view of the budgetary resources we have received in 2008, which we already have and spent in 2009, this year, 2010, and we will increase these funds by about 1.3 billion in 2011. Therefore, this does not in any way hold that we should reduce funds on the basis of social rights. However, the fact is that we have repeatedly said that we will establish certain corrections to the system that you agreed with and that the aim is, above all, to ensure greater social justice within the system itself. Most of the discussions in this law arise with regard to the state pension and the protection allowance. I'd like to make some explanations on this point. For example, the state pension is currently around 189 euros. If we also consider that the beneficiary of a state pension may be entitled to the financial social assistance currently in force, it is eligible to EUR 415. With the proposal of this law, with those two heights that we have mentioned, we ensure that those who are older, women over 63 or men over 65, are permanently unable to work or permanently unemployed persons are entitled to a security allowance plus monetary social assistance of more than €450. So those who really need social assistance, the state's concern for their social economic situation, will get it. Of course, those who are recipients of a state pension, their family social economic status, will not receive this at this time, but they will not fulfil this right. Let me tell you a case. A family where a husband has worked his whole life and has more than a decent pension, and a wife has been at home as a host, but at this point, if she has much property, she will no longer be entitled to a state pension. That woman, who does not have a rich, if we say so, well - standing husband, will gain more after this marriage, and that is the essential goal of marriage. If we're going to pre-debate the security supplement a little bit longer. As of today, by law, the protective allowance depends on the applicant’s income and property position. It's true he's not from his family. But since we discussed in the previous law that we want to establish clear grounds for verifying the income and property situation, for all the rights paid from public funds, it is also right to put the issue of a protection allowance at the same level. If we keep looking at the safety supplement. The amount of the protective allowance depends on the supplementary retirement age. This shows, according to our data, that the poorest who receive the lowest pension actually get the lowest protection allowance, which of course contributes to the fact that Slovenia, when we look at the level of the risk of poverty of the elderly, is the most successful, despite the fact that it is, compared to European countries, in terms of reducing the risk of poverty, despite the crisis among the most successful. We therefore believe that by abolishing the state pension and transferring the protective allowance to the social assistance system, we are establishing a more transparent and, above all, a more socially equitable system. I still owe you a number on what's going to happen after our calculations with the recipients of the protective supplement. According to today's system, there are about 45,000 recipients of a protective supplement. Following the simulations that have been made, approximately one third of the beneficiaries will no longer be entitled to benefit from their income and property position, there will be no change for a third of them, and a third of the new beneficiaries who have not been entitled to a protective allowance to date will be the ones who are the oldest in terms of their income position and therefore require special care from the State. There was also something said about the unemployment rate in our country and how the government has not done enough and is absolutely not successful in preventing unemployment. At the same time, I would point out that Eurostat's latest figures show that the first quarter of 2010 was that only Slovenia and Germany managed to reduce the unemployment rate in Europe alone. And even the latest data for the month of May show that we have fallen below 99,000 unemployed people, which of course does not mean that we can be satisfied with this, but shows that we are successful in dealing with the consequences of the severe financial and economic crisis. It was then also pointed out that we will be burdening the social work centres administratively with some commissions that will decide on permanent incapacity for work. That's not true. Even now, within the framework of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, they decide on the inability to work for applicants. On the basis of these decisions, he will then judge the Centre for Social Work and it is not an absolute duplication of tasks. As regards performances at the level of the Centre for Social Work, we have already stressed in the previous Act that information support is essential, particularly with regard to data on assets and the valuation of these assets, so the Government as a whole is giving all the attention and care to the creation of data by Durs, which will be crucial so that we can also take into account assets. It would also deny that the financial consequences of the law are not clearly stated, as all other laws have added a table where the financial implications are foreseen in the next budget period, but it is the same as the Minister has already pointed out in the examination of the previous law that we do not have an actual assessment of the impact of assets on the acquisition of the right to financial social assistance, and we are assuming on the basis of certain calculations that there would be approximately 5% lower value than envisaged. That's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing there's no interest. I therefore conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, 26 May 2010, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law establishing municipalities and determining their areas within the framework of the ordinary procedure. Do you have a procedural question or a proposal? Please, Mr. Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the fact that we are ahead of time or that we are earlier at this point, as announced in the schedule for today's meeting, and that our proposaler or representative of the group of Members is not in the Chamber, I ask for a 10-minute recess because he is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u136	I have to warn you, this is not a business option. This business interruption is not possible, unfortunately not, and it is not happening. It has already happened that someone was unable to present their views, except when we knew that the Government was sometimes, if the billmaker was at the door, so to speak, we allowed her to come into this hall. Proposer, the first signed will have him here. [[...]] Do you still insist on your business proposal? You don't insist. Good. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Anton Anderlic. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and first-signed members, Anton Anderlich, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners of the Anton Anderlich Act. Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u137	Your Honor! It could be said that everything has been going on too long and that some things have been repeated, but things need to be repeated if circumstances in which it is not possible and in accordance with the will, the democratic will of citizens and citizens to do something that is on the part of Members and Members, that this will lead to legislation, and that those who respect and carry out the whole procedure on the basis of constitutional rights, legal provisions also have the right to hear their voice even when many people do not like it and think it would be better to be less or not at all. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that if the National Assembly decides that an area proposed by citizens and citizens for a new congregation has all the conditions, then it is the duty to carry out all the procedures in this regard, i.e. the call for a referendum and later, if this is positive, also the legalisation of this will in the National Assembly. Unbelievably much energy, knowledge, time has been invested in the fact that, if you want to, there is a point when the decision is again that there should be — perhaps there is a weakness in the legislation — that should in itself be understandable and self - reasonable. It is simply this - as I said - if the conditions are met, if the National Assembly recognises this by voting, decides when all procedures fail and if this will is still expressed in the referendum, then it means that this must also be legalised. It is quite amazing that now that we are reading some of the legal arguments of some eminent constitutional lawyers that they are so uniform that the National Assembly does not have the right, there is no luxury that it can arbitrarily decide whether it will be able to say no in compliance with conditions and with express will, but we do not admit it, and we are not. What were the circumstances in these two areas, that this initiative had even taken place, the reasons given most are the ones given at the time of these initiatives. Citizens and citizens have found that they cannot exercise local self-government in the way they are allowed, enable the European Charter on Local Self-Government, our Constitution, our legislation and that they are obliged to do everything in their field to make life more sustainable, better and to regulate it in accordance with the Constitution and laws, as they think it is best. There's gonna be a lot of, I believe, legal complications before we get to the end. In the Liberal Democracy, we reject those interpretations that say that because the law has not been reconfirmed after the veto, all procedures must be reopened. That's not true. For, if nothing else, more than half in the case of the interested local community or residents of Mirna, more than two-thirds of all the eligible voters in the electoral directory, have expressed, if necessary, their wish to go to the referendum once again and to express their equal will. It is therefore appropriate to support the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation of the opinion. I give my word to the government representative. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Government notes that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas concerns the establishment of a new congregation of Mirna and the change of the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij. At the same time, the Government received an opinion, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas relating to the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. Together, the legislative proposals for content are the same as the content of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 21st extraordinary meeting, on 30 March 2010, following a redecision at the request of the Council of State of 22. 4. However, 2010 was not adopted. In the proceedings for the establishment of the municipalities of Mirna and Ankara, the Government cooperated with its opinion, proposal and referendums, at which the inhabitants of Mirna and Ankara expressed their willingness to establish both new municipalities in accordance with established practice, with respect for the will of the inhabitants, to draw up legislation on which the procedure is terminated. In the process for the establishment of both municipalities, the Government stressed that the period of implementation of the new system of local self-government was a process that lasted for decades and a half and led to a large number of municipalities, which differ greatly according to the capacity to implement the Constitution and the law-ordered system of local self-government. In doing so, the Government assessed that a large part of the municipalities and, above all, those who do not meet the basic population criterion are more difficult to carry out their tasks in accordance with the principles of functional and financial autonomy. In its opinions, the government also stressed that the establishment of new municipalities would make the situation worse and that it did not support the further process of establishing municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr. Secretary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that by establishing new municipalities we support significantly better development in those areas that choose to do so. In fact, this is proved by the municipalities in the last four mandates, and this is proved by citizens and citizens, since to date there has been no requirement to unite the congregation. It is true, however, that it appears from day to day and from year to year that there is still a great need for the establishment of landscapes, which apparently this coalition does not want and has not come up with a single acceptable proposal to date. So let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support both additions to the Law establishing the municipalities, namely the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran and the establishment of the congregation of Mirna. For we believe that the will of the people to be respected, which has also been demonstrated in the referendum under the condition that the areas meet the conditions, of course. And for all we know, they did. In the Slovenian People's Party, therefore, we do not agree on the issue of whether Ankaran does or Ankaran does not, and we remain principled in spite of the various pressures, lobbying and dilemmas related to Luca Koper and so on. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would expect more principles from those Members and Members who like to invoke very much, if we respect the will of the people. In this case, twice the will of the people is clearly shown, that is, what and how citizens want. Unfortunately, in this case, there is also a violation of equality, equality and arbitral decision, which, in our view, is not in place. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be as principled as ever, and as I said, of course we will support the establishment of new congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the law establishing the municipality of Mirna. So, for the third time today, we are presenting our position on this issue. And even at this time of three presentations, we have not reached any new conclusions, some new arguments which would convince us of a different position than we have already had and which we have already presented. Thus, the Democratic Party of the Retired has clearly stated in its programme that we are against the division of municipalities into small congregations, because it is evident that the present small municipalities are also having difficulty exercising their rights and are having difficulty in ensuring the standard that citizens and citizens need. We are also inclined in this view to the opinion of the Government, which is exactly the same, and this opinion is also against dividing into smaller parts. We understand that there is a dilemma in this issue between the decision of the people, the people living there and the other side of the Local Self-Government Act. We know and understand that the National Assembly has so far taken decisions that were not exactly in line with and in line with the Law on Local Self-Government. That is to say, some exceptions have been made, but these exceptions should, in fact, end and say that decisions should be based on the Law on Local Self-Government, and so should our conclusions. Well, the dilemma is certainly. We respect the decision of the people in this area, but our view is that we must also respect the Law on Local Self-Government, which says that the criterion for establishing new municipalities is one which is not met by the proposed municipality of Mirna in this case. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will also oppose the adoption of this law this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. No unnecessary comments, please. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlič, who is to be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u145	Yes, because that is what the biggest problem is that the law makes this possible and that we have the will expressed by the people of Mirna, whether we recognize it or not. It was time to say that we are assessing that those who suggest this are wrong and do not meet the conditions for establishing a new congregation. Now that time is gone. At the beginning of the Liberal Democracy, we also listened to the ideas of the inhabitants of Mirna, who, together with the inhabitants of the Municipality of Šentrupert and the municipality of Mokronog-Trebel, announced that they would join together in the single municipality of Mirska Dolina. If the legal experts of the Ministry of Local Self-Government did not advise or order them to go after two steps, the first is to secede from the congregation of Trebnje and only the next step in four years is the possibility of a merger, we would now have a proposal on the table to establish a new congregation of the two present municipalities and join them a local community of the third congregation. Since we were unable to implement this legal moment, I know now that we have studied that this could even be possible, but this is a missed opportunity. Believe me, you have a letter of intent, all Members and all Members of Parliament, that this is the next step. In my firm belief, this is the knowledge of those people, those inhabitants and the inhabitants of these areas, who know how life needs to be regulated in their environment. And they found it difficult to organize two congregations in order to build a cleaning plant, a sewer, to complete the plumbing and various other things, as well as this local community of Mirna, which has been in the congregation of Trebnje, for 20 years there has been no wally plot for one house, for the construction, for example, of younger generations, because this congregation is a machete. However, Mirna was a congregation far ahead of Trebnji. In 1958, when the road of brotherhood and unity was built, Trebnje was long, stretching out the village when Mirna, Mokronog and Šentrupert flourished as centers within some areas. The development has stopped. And with the idea of about 8 to 10 thousand, I don't know how many people from the two present municipalities and the local community of Mirna would get one rounded area. And if you go and take a look, I know from 210 congregations of all 210, and you'll see, for sure, I know Ankara. And I will tell you, when you take your way from Mirna to Sevnica, the valley will open up to you, and this valley of peace with the River Mirno, where all these functions that I have spoken of would be much easier to accomplish. Many have told us why you didn't do this before, why you didn't do it in the first division, why you didn't do it four years ago when you left, not by the will of the National Assembly, but by the will of the Administrative or Constitutional Court, the congregation of Šentrupert and the congregation of Mokronog-Trebelno were formed. Do we really need someone else, the third branch of power, to signal and say, "No, you didn't act in accordance with the constitution, you didn't act in accordance with the law here, you have to do it and fix it." And I am firmly convinced, in the Liberal Democracy Club, that we do not have this privilege of Members, that we always say, "Citizens, citizens, you are wrong, you are wrong, only we know how right it is." I have never been a supporter of small municipalities, and even in the Liberal Democracy no, although we have different powers in this and have different views, we also have two mayors from a large municipality and one from a small congregation, but all three work and we think that in all three environments they have the right to exercise local self-government in the way they assume. And that is why we will not follow those who in any way resort to the arguments "is too expensive, it is irrational, they cannot perform their functions" because we know that. We also have municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants, and even function well, Mr. Tanko, well, they are far from the eyes, they are far from the heart, but they work because they are forced to live in an environment where no one else is helping them. They help themselves as much as they can and as much as they can with their demands, expectations go hand in hand with the country. That is why we will support the law at first reading and we believe it is right that it goes into further procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Of course, we note that in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the Designation of Their Areas, we have voted for the third time in the last two months. For the first time, we voted on a law drawn up by the Government to close the process of establishing municipalities that received support at the advisory referendum called by the National Assembly. For the second time, we voted on the same law after the veto of the State Council, but then the law did not receive sufficient support. And at today's session, we are faced for the third time with the possibility of voting on this matter. Otherwise, we meet with two laws, namely the law establishing the congregation of Mirna and the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Sveta Jurij ob Ščavnica and the law establishing the municipality of Ankaran. This is somehow also due to all the debates and procedures that have so far been under way in the establishment of these two congregations and these two laws reflect these procedures. While we believe that we need strong and, above all, independent local self-government, which also allows for the highest level of direct action and cooperation in all decision-making processes and is an important process of social development. Of course, this situation is extremely difficult to guarantee in all municipalities in Slovenia, because the formation of municipalities was somehow in accordance with current interests and also the voting in the National Assembly, so we received very large municipalities and very small municipalities. However, everyone in certain given conditions works, operates according to their capabilities. Of course, individual congregations are also trying to combine, complement their activities, not least to bring together administrations, so that they can operate more rationally, and to get some additional resources, which we are devoting to all those who, for example, set up joint administrations or joint services for specific areas under the law. It is also a desire for at some point to create truly rounded wholes or areas that at some point could function even more well organized, even better organized. However, it is likely that it will be necessary for this process to continue for some time, and perhaps at some point we will really get the strong local self-government that the Social Democrats want. However, in today's findings, when we have 210 municipalities, we are establishing two more municipalities, although both of the municipalities proposed do not meet the condition that the municipality should have 5,000 inhabitants, but the fact is that there are 110 municipalities that do not meet this condition today, but of course they do. This is also why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have a different view of the treatment and adoption of these two laws that we are considering at this meeting. Given that the positions are different, we will also vote according to our beliefs and, we can say, according to our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. As in other areas, in the vast majority of all other areas, there is also total confusion in the area of local self-government. Here the views of the government and coalitions are quite different. Procedures do not respect any rules, no legal standards, violate the Constitution, violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and the worst part is: in dealing with the establishment of new municipalities, in fact, equal treatment is not guaranteed for all those who have so far shown interest in new municipalities. This creates major problems in the work of the National Assembly and also in the public, after all, in the professional public. This point, too, allows for a rather unusual interpretation of the rules when coalition applicants are somehow taken in a different way than opposition candidates. You have a privileged position. Here we cannot pass the fact that on April 16th, just before the re-decision on the veto of the State Council, the Government introduced a new Law on Local Self-Government, which amends the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and, inter alia, deletes the exceptions in 13a. an article allowing the establishment of municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, although this novel has been introduced, which is a fundamental novel and provides a basis for the establishment of the congregations, it cannot possibly be and does not want to be included in the programme of the work of the National Assembly. And so she was rushed by two marriages that were filed later. This is very unusual, according to these business arrangements that we have in the National Assembly. The dilemma in dealing with these two laws, which would create new ones, is considerable, this is also reflected in the debates at the College of the President of the National Assembly, and these many dilemmas were also pointed out by the President of the National Assembly himself, but unfortunately we have not cleared up these dilemmas to date, although we have specifically asked our Group of Members at the College to prepare some and also a basis for the Members to work normally. This is actually three laws governing the same or similar social relationship and it would make sense if we first decided on the basis, this is the first law introduced, the Law on Local Self-Government, and probably this law would not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly, because there are many who support the procedures for establishing municipalities where a particular interest is expressed. With regard to specific procedures, we in our Group feel that the establishment, the re-establishment process for new municipalities should be carried out as we did in this mandate, when the call was issued, when the President of the National Assembly prepared the calendar with the planned activities and when all these procedures were followed. Unfortunately, none of this happened, and so we came into a situation where two municipalities in this State Assembly had political cheers, political supporters and proponents. All other interested parties who, by the way, have met at least the conditions of these two proposals in previous procedures, but they are, I think, three others, and they have no option in this process. We think that this is some discrimination that has been enabled by such a partial, special approach to the establishment of congregations. We believe that you have imposed on us Members, as well as the President of the National Assembly, because you have not prepared these preliminary cases, some unnecessary burden, on us to make certain decisions that do not have the proper basis in the acts and, above all, on decisions favouring the chosen ones. In the parliamentary group, the situation that we have before us in the National Assembly, which was caused by these two laws, will continue to be examined, as we do not want to raise any specific doubts about legality and equality. We support the process of establishing municipalities, but it would make sense, as I said before, if after the rejection of the law, the government law, there were a reopening process that would be open and equal for all those who have shown interest. And we believe that this would be best, and it is also time for us to carry out this procedure in this mandate, otherwise it will not apply to this mandate, but to the next. As we say, as far as the decision is concerned, we will decide until the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. If I may, then I would like to state in the light of the position of the SDS Group that, of course, these two laws have been tabled, a valid request for an extraordinary meeting has been made. The President of the National Assembly cannot decide and reject two laws that formally comply with these conditions, which are written, etc. At the National Assembly, it is now up to the first reading to decide whether or not the laws are suitable for further consideration. The second is, of course, the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. I agree, there was a talk at the College about whether it would not be necessary to have any previous position of the Legal and Legislative Service. The proposed view is that, of course, the Law-Legal Service does not give views in the first readings. If such a position were to be taken, we would in some way have prejudged the second treatment, in which we will, of course, only make decisions by adopting or rejecting these two laws, which is why you do not have such views. However, I explained in the morning that there is no danger of violating the first paragraph of Article 117 because the conditions regulated in both laws do not affect each other; we have already explained that. Just so, a dry, dry explanation of what was said, and I have to say that these are the positions that have their weight and validity. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! As I have reiterated several times so far, I would like to support the final realization of the establishment of the congregations for which people are, as my colleague, Mr Anderlič, Mr Anderlič, together with us, told the signatories about the case of the Mirna municipality. For this reason, I think it would be a shame to discuss more at a given time, except to point out once again that in this case it was the establishment of the Mirna Congregation and, later, the merger into the common congregation of the Mirna Valley. As far as the history of this area is concerned, we know what it meant, perhaps those who know the area better or who are closer to us after we live. Therefore, these three municipalities, Mirna, Šentrupert and Mokronog-Trebelno, prove that they work together successfully in certain projects, inter-ethnic, so that in the future - so I am also, when I decided to be co-signatory to the proposal, I expect that the matter will be realized in this direction to become a larger municipality in the future. At the moment, as has been said in some debates, this is a small municipality, but as has been pointed out, there are many smaller municipalities in Slovenia than will be the future municipality of Mirna. I believe that if this was the people's decision at the referendum, we know how large a percentage of the people attended it, I will absolutely support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will also support the decision, which states that the law is suitable for further consideration. I am a little surprised by the position of the Government, which has apparently changed since the previous discussions, even though it is the same problem. I am aware that there is a law in preparation that will try to limit the formation of new smaller congregations. I think that the attempt is legitimate, even if it is precisely in this debate that we need to clarify some of the aspects that have fuelled the formation of all the smaller congregations so far. And this is a possibility for people, in particular those within the former local communities who today, unfortunately, no longer have any powers, are unable and have no opportunity to influence the fate of their own territory. If the new law does not bring about this change and people do not get more decision-making options, we will not solve the problem. Just by deleting the exception that allowed municipalities to be formed even below the threshold of 5,000 inhabitants, we will not solve the essence of the issue of tension or of will within the municipalities. This is a serious issue that opens up right in the debate about the new municipalities, Mirni and Ankaran. I would therefore call on the Government to be more consistent in this case as well. Today we have the opportunity to make a respectful decision on some key aspects of democracy. We had two referendums, which are consultative in nature, and they are binding at the same time. Without these referenda, there would be no procedure, no debate at all. If they were a referendum, it means that all the conditions for the congregations to be established were given. It is then a little twofold, and because of known circumstances, it is also a matter of preventing the formation of these congregations simply because some interests have prevailed because they have prevailed because they have lost one decisive voice at the end, and so on. I compare the vote on the implementation of the people's will in the consultation referendum with the vote on the confirmation of the seats of Members immediately at the beginning of the term of office of the National Assembly. We have the freedom and the opportunity to vote against this mandate of the National Assembly, even though the people have decided differently. But no one takes advantage of this right. Why? Because it would actually conflict to the Constitution, to the fundamental principles of democracy. Every Member is aware when the human will is expressed, and every Member is obliged to respect it. In this given case, unfortunately, it didn't happen, so today is just here again. We decide separately, individually about the municipality of Mirna and the municipality of Ankaran. It is a calm example of a marked lack of harmony with common sense and logic. There, the vast majority have been identified as this congregation, not only that, but also the home congregation has agreed to this decision, and yet we are again deciding on it today. We've lost our chance. I hope we don't lose her this time. Therefore, I will continue to support both the Peace and Ankaran, but then the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u154	Thank you. The word is Bell Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ensuring local self-government is a constitutional category. This is also said by the Law-Legal Service in its position to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. In this case, the congregation of Mirna has found, not only once, that it meets all the conditions. The National Assembly called for a referendum. The result of the referendum was, we know, and then the National Assembly also adopted the Law establishing the municipalities of Mirna and Ankaran. Then the Council of State voted veto against this law, but in his defense or argument, he never once mentioned the congregation of Mirna. Veto was voted only for the sake of the congregation of Ankaran, but then the marriage fell. The municipality of Mirna did not become a congregation. That's why I think the procedure has been rather unusual. So far, the National Assembly has never voted in a package. He voted in the package, but only when he confirmed the will of the people at the referendum, but never when it was contrary to the will of the people expressed in the referendum. With this law alone. The newly established municipality of Mirna is established for a reason, which was already stressed at the outset by the proposer to unite the three municipalities in one municipality, because they have joint projects, but the local community of Mirna now has problems because it cannot provide its own resources in the preparation of projects, because the municipality of Trebnje does not provide them with enough resources to match the other two municipalities in the preparation of these projects. So if the government or this political option wants to unite the congregations, here is the first opportunity for the smaller congregations to unite into one larger congregation in the surrounding area, but we have not allowed it to sit down, so now is the last chance to accompany this law for further consideration and to create the congregation of Mirna at that time, so that they can go to the elections in the fall like all other congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u157	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First, I would like to reject some of the opposition's instigation of how the government is confused and such a flossule. They must be aware that we are living in democracy today and that debates and procedures are always possible, matters are never locked and the debate is still under way today. And if, like the vast majority today, all the conditions laid down for the establishment of the congregation or the criteria are met, then I see no dilemma that this would not have occurred. However, if the required criteria are not 100% met, there are always dilemmas, dilemmas against and dilemmas for the establishment of a new congregation. I will not give up on my opinion, which I have built for some time now, which means that I am not inclined to continue to share Slovenia with small congregations, especially when the required criteria or conditions are not met. Today I meet again, as I did a while ago, with a big problem, because in the congregation of Ankaran the referendum was successful, it was voted, so all those citizens and citizens who live there voted it, so that we are all again in conflict, what to do, or vote according to our conscience, as I said at the outset, and say no again or do otherwise. Perhaps today, as we are discussing this issue for the third time, the dilemma is growing. I would expect this to happen in due course, which is what we are always talking about, and this means that the legal changes are primarily the financing of municipalities that respect the trend of association, as we have discussed several times. That's the most important thing. Because we are still ahead of the simple truth that such a law, which is now, promotes the establishment of new congregations. No wonder then those individuals find themselves everywhere where they feel that the domestic congregations, that is, those who belong, are not sufficiently serviced and want to go to their own. After all, this is also a legitimate right. If I return to a law that should be modernised and harmonised with certain corrections that would bring about the interest of bringing congregations together. The interest means - for example, there are inter-Chinese inspection services, where we already have a lot of cases, when the municipalities have united and went to these joint services, then we have a lot of different institutions, which are already inter-Chinese, there are a lot of such cases. We have cases of joint municipal administrations, already in Slovenia, according to my information, there are about 20 cases where municipalities are maintained and have joint municipal administrations and, of course, I also mean some other forms of association, because there are many of them. Of course, everything depends on the development region itself, as we like to call it. Either within the development region, which, of course, are functioning at this time and of course are such or different, good or bad, all of them can be found, I can call the mayors or others responsible for this, to find a common language, to work together, to enjoy each other, to find common interests, to have their responsibilities as mayors, that they are, of course, responsible for the progress of the congregation, but not for any small things, as is often said. It must also be made clear that, at this moment, there are probably far more important things on the table than is possible, because it is still necessary to say that we have just now, so this morning also on the Committee on Local Self-Government, had quite a broad debate on this subject — what is then the important topic in Slovenia at this time — and of course we have agreed that there are still one job number, that the competitiveness of our Slovenia must be ensured. These are the topics that are supposed to be discussed and these are the most striking topics, those that, at the moment in Slovenia, are the ones that are most stingy. And the other topic is, as I said, competitiveness. The debate also went in this direction, saying once again clearly and loudly that job provision is more important than any other matter. For example, we have also heard that demographic trends show that people do not migrate from certain parts of Slovenia to cities or elsewhere at the expense of having no plumbing, because they do not have asphalted roads, because they do not have sewerage and so on, but only because they do not have jobs. The one who doesn't believe it should look at the statistics. Of course, much needs to be done in this area. This, however, stems from a fact that could be developed from the fact that the congregation is also responsible for doing much in creating conditions for the development of the economy. We know that industrial zones are important, we know that business and trade zones are important, we know that service activities are important, and of course the municipality has something to do here. If, of course, the smaller congregation is, of course, very difficult to follow and guarantee these trends. However, we have cases where some municipalities, even if they are smaller, are following these trends in a positive way. Not at this point in time can I say what my decision will be, so I will wait for my respected colleagues and colleagues to discuss today and, of course, they will help me with my decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u158	The word is Brada Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I must say that, of course, it is a little strange that we think so differently in the party of Social Democrats about the attitude towards the establishment of new municipalities or the division of municipalities, but the circumstances that have led to such a situation as today are very specific, but also all the developments surrounding the establishment of the congregation of Mirna and the municipality of Ankara and, of course, the renaming of St. George are such that they need something more than a sarcastic assessment of the unusual procedures for returning to the start of the entire legislative process. Comparing, too, that one of the two congregations was, as it is called, collateral damage, collateral damage [[...]] [[End warning sign]] Yeah, that's all I have left. Okay, I'll be right there. The fact is that it is not fair to say now that one congregation was unjustly rejected on the veto because of another congregation. What, after all, is the blame of Ankara’s country that the opposition front, not to say harassment and the mobbinga that took place in the Koper congregation, has also brought harm to Mirna. That is why I will vote in favour of this law and also in favour of the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In opening, I would like to say that I will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, because of the simple position, because today in some way I understand that what we are doing is a corrective exam. Why am I talking about a midterm? I come from an environment in which we have experienced two positive referendums in the past. After both referendums, the National Assembly rejected the establishment of our congregation, and I know how people in Mirna today experience this experience, as well as how they experience this story in Ankara, which takes place in the National Assembly. I don't think we have any right below to disregard the will of the people. In particular, I would like to say that we are helping the municipality of Sveti Jurij with the addition of the name Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica, because there are two municipalities with the same name in that area, namely the municipality of Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Gorica, and the other only the municipality of Sveti Jurij. And there are big problems, especially in sending mail and everything. It would also be appropriate to do so from this point of view. Today, we have heard that small congregations cannot provide the same standards of operation as the large congregations provide. Here is another question. In Slovenia we know 110 municipalities, which are less than 5,000 people, and in these 18 years we have not experienced an initiative to abolish or join another municipality. In comparison, I would like to say what I can say from my own practice. In the municipality in which I am also the mayor, we received a municipality with 1,850 people 12 years ago. Today this municipality is estimated at less than 2 000 500 people. Since some people have spoken here today that we cannot provide new jobs, let me say that we have provided an industrial-business area in which we have 60 jobs. If a country or if I were a more specific Ministry of Environment and Space were to work less difficult to obtain environmental consensus for the "Tourism" project, 130 new jobs would be in this area. So if people in a particular place or congregation are willing to develop this place regardless of the number of people, of course this can happen. We have also heard that the problem with these smaller congregations is that we do not yet have provinces. If one looks after this House, one can see that today's participation of colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members is, in fact, as numerous as when we discussed all the legislation relating to the provinces. So in a way, I'm afraid of the outcome of the vote on these two laws that we have today under consideration. Finally, I would like to stress that I will vote in favour of the law for a simple reason, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, which are currently in force, allow this establishment, has not yet been repealed. There are 2,000 inhabitants, and these two municipalities, which are now on the agenda, have this number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, when we talk about the organisation of local self-government, the establishment of municipalities and landscapes, there are certainly reasons for and against. I regret that at the beginning of this term we did not do what we agreed to adopt the law on local self-government and lay down the rules of the game as necessary. This is part of our responsibility that we carry with us. But the second part of the story is, when we turned on the green light for the referendum and people tried to harmonise positions for and against and decided and decided positively that they wanted to try and rely on their own strength and abilities, then, of course, there is no going back for the real Democrats. We've given people a choice, people have made up their minds, and this decision has to be respected. I must say that in recent weeks we have been visited and visited by some lobbyists, who mainly convince us of the case of the Municipality of Ankaran, which we will deal with later, what this division of one of the Slovenian municipalities should bring all. Above all, it shows that in the past there has been a significant lack of conversation and negotiation. If they had listened to the real problems at the time and had confidence that they could be saved, they would not have taken the path they had chosen. Now that they have made up their minds, I will listen to them, as we have always advocated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Joz Tanko. 11 seconds. [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word from the government, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would only like to respond to the claim that the Government has changed its mind. If we examine carefully the opinions given by the Government regarding this procedure, it has been consistent and is still consistent in its opposition to the fragmentation of the municipality in Slovenia. Here we are attached to the financial and functional analysis carried out by the municipalities and it is also reflected in our proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. However, in the case of the law concerning the establishment of the municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna, according to established practice, to respect the outcome of the referendum, to cooperate with the opinion and to draw up the law and such an opinion the Government has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u167	Yeah, that's exactly what the minister said. The Government and the National Assembly have concluded that this area, which has been proposed for the establishment of a new municipality, fulfils the conditions under law, but is a political definition that no further division is supported. This is legitimate, legal and right for everyone to decide when it comes to the National Assembly and the Government, but not for legal experts who say "I don't know what the word is really about, but I am against the municipalities and therefore this procedure is not corrected.".. That's what I read in the papers. This is not right, of course, and given that we have our responsibility here, that we have the authority, so to speak, to be an intermediary between the will of the people and the fulfilment of constitutional and legal conditions, then there is no other than simply saying that this will should happen and be punished, as the procedure is prescribed. Once again, the National Assembly, and before that, the Government — we have all come to realize that the conditions under the Law on Local Self - Administration are in force in that regard. I would agree that if there were no referendum, there is a lot of manipulation here, because the consultation referendum is not binding on the National Assembly, we can play a little bit, and we find out what the public opinion is, so those claims that were here today, that the procedure needs to be repeated, are not correct. In fact, these people in Mirna, 67 percent and more, again with all the signatures, with addresses, dates of birth and so on, signed and brought to the National Assembly. Mr. Luka Yuri, you go and collect what? [[...]] They forced them to go to Mirna?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u168	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u169	Please, if you hope to say it out loud. The organizers will come here and say, "Don't slander, don't slander." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u170	My friend Anderlich, Mr. Yuri didn't even speak today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u171	Of course he is. He's talking now. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u172	He didn't speak in the debate, so please don't argue. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u173	Now [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u174	Mr. Anderlich, I have to interrupt. Dr. Luka Juri did not participate in this debate. You can't argue with him from the bench. No one knows what he said to you from the bench. No microphones are on. I'm asking Dr. Yuri not to enter the word if he's fallen. But I'm asking you to continue. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u175	It's okay. He said they were forcing people to sign. Please apologize to those on the Peace Committee [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u176	Mr. Anderlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u177	I'm talking about the Mirna Congregation. Since he's a Democrat and an honest man, then he'll say it out loud, you don't have to do that, but because he's already talking to me because I'm talking. [[...]] In short, it's just one thing. We have our powers and our responsibilities. The procedure is prescribed, the will of citizens and citizens is one. Before that, both the Government and the legislator, in order to verify this, find out whether these conditions are met, a referendum is held, and in the end this must, as it is said, be committed. If he doesn't want to, there's a lot wrong with the Referendum and Human Initiative Act. We've been changing it since we accepted it years ago. Because more or less in all these experiences in Slovenia, the consultation referendum has brought more confusion than the benefits. That's obvious, but we have to raise two-thirds to change this marriage, unfortunately we can't. But every mandate, even in this mandate, has already been consulted on how to change this law. The only thing that's not responsible is that the National Assembly decides that the conditions are met, you send people to the referendum, and then you say, "I've done a survey, and now what we want, I'm throwing this poll away because I think the congregations are too much." It just doesn't seem right to me, and that's why I think it's right for this law to be supported. And I also reject those interpretations that also appear in this assembly. Even those who are allegedly the most familiar with local self-government who sit on the Committee on Local Self-Government when they say that the right to local self-government is not a right to municipalities. Indeed, but the form of how you get to local self-government is also a congregation. That's not true. Five, six thousand. [[...]] Under the current law, Mr President is 2,000. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous coalition, they changed that. It's not a dilemma. I believe that even then, if the arguments are correct, I will listen to this analysis after what is now the 14, 16-year implementation of municipalities into new local self-governments in Slovenia. And when this analysis is done, I'll listen, and maybe it's 5,000 too little. Perhaps there is another digit that is more suitable for the Slovenian situation, or we would make municipalities that have different powers, because it is impossible to believe that Ljubljana has, say, 300,000 people by law, but now we have the Main City Act, or Maribor 120 000 or how many thousands of people, that it has the same rules, the same legal framework as Osilnica has 350, 400 or Hodosh with 400, 500 inhabitants and so on. But he's obviously got them. I do not think that this is how local self-government is done purely in the way of the European Charter and all other things. It's a really big issue. We are currently discussing whether the whole procedure has been properly carried out, whether this area meets the conditions or not for the establishment of a municipality. As a proposaler, I believe that all the conditions are met and that is why I will vote in favour tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I apologize for making this observation, but I meant 6,000 settlements in Slovenia, not on the threshold of 6,000, but I certainly cannot discuss it, I apologize. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing you don't want to. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow, 26 May 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the first stage of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members with the first-signed France Yuri. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Anton Anderlich requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Franco Jury Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u179	The Honorable President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. For all of us, the circumstances behind the proposal to establish the congregation of Ankaran and those for the congregation of Mirna are already well - known. We have dealt with them and voted on them until a notable meeting under the voted veto of the Council of State when one vote was lost in order to confirm the constitutional and democratically flawless decision in special circumstances. Now, with the right to local self-government of the Ankarans, we are again dealing with a new, separate law following a regular procedure. There was a process, there was a vote, there was a referendum. Today, new facts and knowledge can prevail over apparent arguments against the congregation of Ankaran. We decide today and always, sovereignly, decisively, when we get even more familiar with the constitutional opinions, we decide even more easily. These days, all parliamentary groups were informed of the Constitutional aspects of the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, which was prepared by four prominent constitutional lawyers and former constitutional judges at the Institute of Comparative Law: Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič, in cooperation with Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Dr. Lojzet Udet, and in consultation with Prof. Dr. Francem Grad. With their consent, the document shall be made available to the public. I will therefore read the conclusion of this analysis, which summarizes the content of a longer text, which I recommend in my reading to all Members and Members: "Of course, there are legitimate efforts for or against larger and smaller municipalities. However, this must take into account the limitations arising from the constitutional regime and the rule of law and take account of the equal rights of others. From a constitutional point of view, for example, it is clear that when the National Assembly called for a referendum on the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, it is decided that the settlement meets the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality. If they were not, the referendum should not be called for. The municipality of Ankara will not be among the largest Slovene municipalities, but not among the smallest, since it now has as many as 55 fewer inhabitants than Ankaran, in which there are 2 000 984 inhabitants. Moreover, according to its development and potential, this congregation will be able to function autonomously and successfully. Also, the majority who voted in the referendum for the establishment of the congregation is 56.1% convincing. In Slovenia, some municipalities were also established on the basis of a less convincing majority, 27 of them and others even against the expressed will of most people. He's 28. When we talk about the exercise of special rights of the Italian national community, this can not only be the responsibility of the new municipality, but also of the Municipality of Koper and of the State, in particular during the initial period of operation of the municipality of Ankaran. Cooperation between the congregations may ease the possible short - term negative effects of the formation of a new congregation. The newly created municipal border is not a national border, but it should be a border of integration and not separation. In the interest of the people of both municipalities, their creative cooperation in the development economy of Luka Koper and so on. Constitutionally, it would not be acceptable for the Italian national community or the existence of Luke Koper to prevent the establishment of a municipality that meets the constitutional and legal conditions for this, and for its establishment, the inhabitants of the referendum were identified. A constitutional analysis of all aspects of the procedures so far has shown that the new municipality of Ankara should be established as soon as possible. In the long term, it is not acceptable for the inhabitants of Ankara to exercise local self-government against their will and to fulfil the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality within the Municipality of Koper, which the Constitutional Court has found in various compositions that it has not formed in accordance with the Constitution. It is questionable when the expressed will of the inhabitants is taken into account in contravention of the constitutional position of local self-government. It is constitutionally unacceptable, however, when the democratic will of the referendum, which is stipulated by the Constitution, is not taken into account and there is no compelling constitutional reason or justification for this." To the opinion of these constitutional lawyers, I will join, of course, as a proposal, and ask this esteemed assembly to support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u180	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The opinion of the Government on the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, which is the content of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, is the same as I previously presented in the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Mirna. In the process of establishing the municipalities of Mirna and Ankara, the Government cooperated with its opinion and proposal and, following a referendum, drafted a law on which the procedure is completed in accordance with the established practice of respect for the will of the inhabitants. However, I would like to stress the Government's view that the fragmentation of the municipalities' areas will make their position in the public administration system worse and that this process should be halted. Thus, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which is held in the National Assembly in the second reading, has been tabled in the legislative procedure. The proposed law amends the arrangements for the possible establishment of new municipalities. The provisions on the conditions to be met by the area are deleted. All provisions based on the understanding of the right to local self-government as rights to their own congregation have been deleted. The procedure for the amendment of the territory of the municipality and the establishment of a new municipality or city municipality and the legal protection of the applicant have been fully abolished. The criteria for the exceptional establishment of municipalities and the consultative referendum prior to the award of municipal status have been removed. These changes will, in the view of the Government, put an end to the process of establishing new municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners or the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u183	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The very identical position of the DeSUS Group is also in this proposal for a law establishing the municipality of Ankaran, as was the case with the law establishing the municipality of Mirna. We are still convinced that the establishment of new congregations cannot follow the ambitions of individual groups or individuals, either because of these or those interests, nor can it follow the interests of a settlement, some rounded urban complex because the parent congregation has a macho relationship with them. I think that these things must be resolved differently, not by the establishment of new congregations. And what I have already said about the previous explanation of the democratic party of pensioners is still our position that once it is good to end the fragmentation of municipalities into smaller parts. You can see that the process in small municipalities has already led to the negotiation of community administrations, the negotiation of common services, the more rational organisation of the process and the more reliable provision of the standard of citizens and citizens with the money at their disposal. And if we continue to look at the Law on the Financing of the Communities in the following year and in the coming period foresees a reduction in these funds, then it seems to me that all the newly established municipalities and some small municipalities will have great problems in exercising and exercising all their powers and all the powers they have to bear. So I must also say in this case that the DeSUS Group will not vote in favour of the Act establishing the Municipality of Ankara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u185	It is undeniable that there is only one thing in this case. Are democratic rules respected in this country? Is there respect for the constitution and the law based on the expressed will of the electorate and the electorate, or is it not? It is a test whether the National Assembly, as a legislator at the level of its responsibilities and its position with the instruments available to citizens and citizens, does not play. That's what leads us in this case. This National Assembly has ruled on the basis of the Government that the conditions are met. It is free to talk about how nice it would be to change the Law on Local Self-Government and to sharpen these criteria. I don't know. Why 5,000? Why not some other figure, 7 thousand 322 would be best because I know about one congregation that had fewer or more areas for the day before. Since we started this local self-government and first adopted the Law on Community Financing, we are talking about how it needs to be changed, how it needs to be made more stimulating for those environments that cannot meet certain obligations themselves, in order to simply merge and rationalise business. These are all legitimate discussions. I support them myself. The saddest part is that, in the past, in the National Assembly, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of Municipalities have never been a candidate — mayors, municipal councilors — nor have I been a saint or mayor, and I believe that I will not be for a long time now because it is now that I am making a congregation to run for mayor. Please! Funny and stupid. Everyone else pulls me by the sleeve in the hallway. It's a long way from where I've been, say, originally at home, but I've been living in Ljubljana for 50 years. When I talk about the local community of Ankaran or the will of the people of Ankara, I don't care, I could talk about Slovenia Gradc or Podgorica, say, or Thinking. If the conditions were met, if that would be the case, then I would vote in favour. We have several relics in our legislation, which in fact speak of the fact that the National Assembly should be included three times in individual decision-making stages, to determine whether the conditions are met, to call a referendum, to determine or declare the outcome of the referendum in the National Assembly, to draft a law to declare it and so on. So the question is whether this is really necessary and right, and it is only after this whole procedure that it is finally determined that perhaps not all the circumstances are such as to establish a congregation. I agree that everyone has his own conviction to vote on his conscience. But I'm not sure whether it's right and responsible to say, "Although you're meeting the conditions, I'm the one here who will or won't." This is not the right thing to do in the Liberal Democracy, and in this case we will also vote that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. We believe that we will learn from these two examples that something needs to be done in local self-government as such and that this local self-government in Slovenia is actually carried out in the way that all the documents and our constitution are prescribed or not. Whether this is simply because we go every four years of the election to fight for the mayors, for the councillors of the municipalities, or for what it seems to be, space management, and it is only up to the wiser, the more skilled, the right or the left. No, that's not local government. But something from that place down there is a message - the battle is just for that. And we're not going to be the judge of who's more qualified, who's going to be better at managing this place. This will certainly be best done by people organised in the form of local self-government, as prescribed by our legislation. Because all the conditions are met, we will also vote that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of National Communities will be presented by Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The foundation of democracy is respect for the laws. Respect for the rule of law is the basis for the exercise of all rights and duties arising from democratic regulation. The settlement of Ankaran does not meet the legal requirements for being a congregation. In this regard, the original error that was made at a time when the National Assembly was in conflict with the law, since the law had already been broken, called for a referendum on whether the settlement of Ankaran should become a municipality. Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government is violated, and if what we read is true in some of the works that are worthy of all respect, but which were prepared at the initiative of the initiators, the founders of the Municipality of Ankara, then we could conclude that Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government is unconstitutional, since Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government states that municipalities in national mixed areas must be formed in a way that ensures the exercise of the special rights of national communities and not that they will someday ensure. Otherwise, this article wouldn't even be in law. So it's a violation of Article 5. Article 13a is violated. The one that allowed deviations according to the number of inhabitants. Now, if it is under Article 13 that one of the conditions for the establishment of the municipality is a complete primary school, it is probably logical that in the national mixed area of the coast of Kopra this does not mean only the primary school in the Slovenian learning language. This probably means that the primary school, at least a branch school, must also be in the Italian school language, with its own kindergarten. That's not there. And there's no way this could be established. So each of these 6,000 settlements, a certain number of them in the national mixed area, tomorrow, if they have real botres, can be established in the congregation and this can break down and destroy the concept of a territorial approach to the exercise of the rights of national communities. This could also be done by the Constitutional Court, and it will certainly, if it were not, be said even in the light of the degeneration of the procedure that is going on, so, contrary to common sense, tomorrow might be, say, the voted congregation of Ankaran. It is stated that the National Assembly made a mistake because it did not vote on the congregation of Ankara when a proposal for veto on this law was made by the Council of State. That's not true. At that time, the National Assembly only corrected the error that was made when, despite the lack of legal conditions, it called for a referendum for the congregation of Ankaran. That is why there is also an institution of the State Council to allow Parliament to eventually correct its mistakes. It's his constitutional order. This decision over and over again on matters for which the procedure has already ended, as noted by the Government, is an abuse. Because the next day we will again have so many signatures that we will again have an extraordinary meeting on the subject of the congregation of Ankaran and the following day, and so on and so forth. Having already completed the procedure, which also went through, as I would say, a free veto of the State Council, irrespective of the colors of the mayors and regardless of the colors of these bodies of this Parliament and of the Council of State. The position of the Italian national community remains that it is important to cultivate the rule of law and that, in the absence of conditions, the national mixed area is not to be crushed because of the inherent threat to the continued existence and development of the national community, without any violation of the rights of others or of the members of the national community themselves, for we all have the right to exercise local self-government and without the existence of the Ankaran municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! I can only find once more that we have a unique situation in the National Assembly in the area of the establishment of new municipalities with this proposal and with the previous one, and we are engaged in the establishment of municipalities in a way that has not been the practice of the National Assembly so far. It should be recalled that the last vote on the bill proposed by the Government was not supported by 22 members of the government's proposal coalition. It is said that almost half of the coalition members of their own government's proposal, which drafted a proposal for a hearing procedure at the National Assembly, did not support it. And now I have a feeling that it is some kind of correctional step that some who have not been satisfied in the coalition with this decision want to correct. There was only one single vote in the previous vote. I believe that the coalition did not make sufficient use of its position, its size, its power in that vote. In addition, I would like to point out that, in the previous procedure, there has been great discrimination in the establishment of new municipalities, that a number of proposals have been rejected, which have largely met the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality, and that the coalition has not supported these proposals. It supported only its two proposals, which are actually at the lower limit of meeting the criteria. This, I believe, is this conflict, this conflict between the Government and the coalition in the National Assembly and also within the Parliamentary, which is extremely disturbing for the work of the majority, because these contradictions arise in the basic content, in the basic laws that should be dealt with and adopted in the National Assembly. And worse still, because of these internal contradictions in the coalition, between the Government and the coalition parliamentary majority, we are actually victims of the opposition party and in particular citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As this is why the coalition treaty is not respected, the government does not implement its normative programme, so the government does not implement or delay the exit strategy measures and so on. For this reason, the Government sums up some of the solutions that we proposed a year and a half ago in the opposition and would be crucial for a way out of the crisis. When the Prime Minister says we're gonna be the best, I don't really know if he's serious. We may be able to do so, but we will certainly not be in this mandate if we have such dismembered positions in the coalition. Trends also show that we are actually traveling through these indicators to the opposite side. I believe that there is also a major problem in this mandate, even though you have a firm commitment to have this firmly enshrined in the 2009 normative programme, there will obviously be no provinces in this mandate. Regardless of all the discussions we have had, you will certainly not be able to unify yourself in order to reach the provinces. You will find so much less, perhaps, agreement with those who simply provide the right consent to adopt this law. As regards the efficiency of the municipality and the implementation of the municipalities. You know, the size of the municipality doesn't really support the quality of functioning of local self-government. It's a smaller congregation. It's more effective. The biggest problem in the Republic of Slovenia is now far from the largest municipality in the Republic of Slovenia — the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is the only municipality that is currently unable to carry out its tasks and because of the benevolence of the coalition, because of some strange visions between the coalition and the municipal municipality and the mayor of the municipality, all Slovenia is involved with this municipality; public institutions, government, banks, all those institutions that in this country, what they mean. We read about the big holes in the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana that it cannot ensure the implementation of its ambitions. Perhaps there is a city councilman among the members of the National Assembly, and he does not point to these problems that have arisen in the country’s largest congregation. When we requested a debate on this larger problem in the Republic of Slovenia, this debate was rejected twice, and we met all the constitutional and other conditions, as the proponents in this case, for discussion at the National Assembly. And I think it is uncritical of those who talk about the problem of small municipalities, that you do not have the same vats when assessing the position, position, financial situation of the largest municipality in Slovenia. In this case, too, you say that you have a very different view of the Ljubljana municipality and especially of the Ljubljana mayor than of some small congregations. All small municipalities in Slovenia, as well as some other major municipalities together, are unlikely to have as much uncovered obligations as only the largest municipality in the country at the end of this term. And no one bothers with her tasks, her way of working, her business and other matters. Therefore, in fact, I think it is obvious that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are also drawing attention to this duality, to this inappropriate approach and to the unequal treatment of municipalities in the country, that we are, in fact, some kind of internal enemy of this Parliament, because we point out these problems and because we want to discuss these issues, which will have long-term consequences for the whole country, for the fate of a lot of people. For, as we are hearing now, the obligations of the largest municipality in the country are to be covered by the budgetary reserve of the state budget and the funds are to be provided by the three largest banks in the country, the New Bank of Maribor, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the SIB Bank. Thus, the banking institutions that have received the means to launch, to enable better working conditions in the economy, and now it appears that at least some of these funds will be spilled to cover non-economic investments, which are also by the way, given the situation in which we are not economical. In fact, I think it is best that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party leave the ruling coalition and the government to try to align their views on the proposal ahead of us in this process. When we leave, you may find it easier to meditate, to adjust more easily, and then give appropriate, serious solutions. As for our position, we'll say it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u190	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Franco Yuri, you do. As a proponent, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I congratulate my colleague Tank for using Ankaran very successfully to strike after the mayor of Ljubljana. But well, it's politics, everything's legitimate, everything's allowed. I would like to answer some open questions, in particular those raised by Mr Battelli. First of all, I would advise him not, but if he would listen to me somewhere, let him know that there is also a text called the Constitutional Aspects of the Establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, I quoted him earlier, and perhaps he would benefit from reading such a text. Then he would probably avoid the evaluation we received today, for his suggestion was that all of us who supported the referendum and supported all the procedures were legally or constitutionally illiterate. Of course, I do not wish to take such hints, given that he himself has decided that it was against the Constitution and against the law, because most members of the National Assembly have repeatedly found that the procedure is correct and that the bill is lawful and constitutional. If it weren't, we wouldn't have come to the referendum. After the referendum, we reaffirmed the validity of the whole procedure and the referendum itself and the outcome of the referendum itself. We play too much with the fate of referendums, we play with the fate of people, we play with their rights, and in fact, there are 90 Members who have enormous power. It can stop the process that has been identified by the majority of the countries concerned. We can, of course, stop it with one voice, it is in our power, but it is also legitimate, it is also political blue. I ask myself that question, and my answer is no, it's not politically wise and it's not ethically legitimate either. I'd like to replicate Mr Battelli very specifically. He mentioned two articles, one Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government and 13.a of the same law. Article 5 of this Act reads: "The municipalities in the areas where members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities live form such that they guarantee the exercise of the special rights of the national communities." That's Article 5. When the initiators prepared all the necessary documentation when we processed it and when we adopted it by voting in this National Assembly, we found that this article was respected that this article was taken into account. For the proposal to establish a congregation describes specific rights of nationality, it is a special seat for a representative of a minority, it is the establishment of a self-government community and it is bilingual. Let me repeat, this will be the first and only municipality of Slovenian Istria, which will be bilingual in its entirety. I wonder what happened to the name recently. Anecdota. The city municipality of Koper prohibited that the bilingual name, which was written in large quantities of flowers, remained there, was symbolically written by Ankaran, Ancarano, and that inscription was reportedly removed by the decree of the City Municipality. That's what the controversy is about in the media. But let's go back to our special rights. Special rights are guaranteed. What's wrong? Mr. Battelli said there was a school missing. A primary school was established in the Slovenian language of learning and there was no branch, an Italian school. Why? Did this happen in the congregation of Ankaran? No, this happened in the Municipality of Koper. What did the saints say? What did the self-government community of Italians say? What did all the organizations of this minority say? Nothing. Why? Wasn't there a need? If there was no need, it is hard to expect that congregation to have an empty school in advance. However, if there was a need, I wonder what we have every opportunity for, but the minority itself, organised or led by a minority, does not take advantage or use them. Why was there never a requirement for a branch in Italian in primary school? There was no such request. Today, the fact that they do not have an Italian school is a hypocrisy. It's such a hypocrisy that no one will buy, of course. I come from a national mixed environment, and I belong to a minority environment myself, but I know exactly what the situation is. And such indignation and such proof of non-compliance with Article 5 are entirely unfounded. And as constitutional lawyers write, if something is needed by the minority community, this minority community must be ensured as soon as possible. And it may be that she will receive what she did not get in the common congregation of Koper, the great City congregation. It's a paradox. Of course, this bothers them because they fear that the Ankaran congregation will be an example in relation to the minority community. See, among the signatories to the Ankaran Municipality are also members of the Italian minority. They were on TV, and I saw my former classmate say, "Are we going to get or not get this congregation?" I could name him now. So, what some are trying to prove and from this point of view to make a big story about the fact that certain rights are being reduced, this is not true, this is completely unfounded. 13.a Article 13, it was found that the conditions for this Article to be taken into account in the case of Ankaran were given. And we voted for that. I repeat, I will not use the words "correction exam." We're not students, we're not students, we're not students. We don't need the exams, but it can happen that we will get the Constitutional Court's decision tomorrow, as we have already received it. The Municipality of Koper is still acting against the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. The establishment of the municipality of Ankara was in the direction of the implementation of this Decision. Now all of a sudden, we're just taking a step back. We have taken a step back and are back on the unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court. We need to be aware of that. And tomorrow we can get a new decision from the Constitutional Court. We'll see what he finds out; you know he's in the Constitutional Court's judgment, and it'll be interesting. I'll take their opinion personally. I hope that it will also be taken into account by those who may not be satisfied with this opinion. I don't know, let's just leave it to the Constitutional Judges. I think they're competent enough to figure out, substantially more competent than Comrade Battelli, probably whether the matter is constitutional or not. So, let me just say this one more time, we're going to vote on this tomorrow. I hope we have another opportunity to prove that as Members, we do not abuse our power and listen to people. If we don't do this, I don't know what kind of face we're calling for referendums.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u192	Mr. Battelli, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri voted for what he himself found out. With regard to Article 13a, the Government was clear and did not want to define itself until its contents concerning the congregation of Ankaran, for example. In general, Mr Juri, as I would say, has been in politics for so long that it is known that he has always identified everything and also the opposite of everything, and at the same time. But we would rather not talk so openly about hypocrisy, because the ambiguity of your views and, as I would say, opposition to your own views has always been presented on your part as the culmination of openness of consciousness. That's what I quote you on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u194	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Today, in our opening remarks to this law establishing municipalities and determining their areas, we have also heard an explanation of the coming law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm sure the intentions are good. I am confident that much will be done to ensure that the establishment of new municipalities will no longer take place, but that the process will be due to the quality of this law - I hope that it will also be accompanied by the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which is one of the main reasons why so far there have been as many municipalities as there has been since the Law on the Financing of the Communities was designed and directed to promote the creation of new, smaller and smaller municipalities. Because only the smallest municipalities, which is not the case for Ankaran, need additional resources from the State at the time of its assured consumption. I would just like to say this that I have missed the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development saying that there will also be some very important provisions in this law - provisions that will make it impossible for self-sufficient, tyrannical, autocratic, not to say anything else, to the mayors, to make mobile phones over citizens, to take away the rights of local communities, to take away, literally and physically, and also mentally, so that local communities, without being asked, would make changes to the spatial implementing acts without discussing and aligning them with them. None of this is happening in the specific Municipality of Koper. Sanctions against such mayors must finally be imposed in the Local Self-Government Act. Not to speak of spending resources in this congregation, but in many others, to avoid misunderstandings, to every extent, without any agreement with citizens, of any kind. The Aarhus Convention does not apply to such municipalities. The Aarhus Convention is an unknown concept in such municipalities. And I hope that there will be something else in this law that the mayors can only be two mayors. As is the case in Italy, because we will be able to experience that someone will not be able to abuse their power because they have docked in the environment and they are doing what they want with that environment. People are afraid to say in truth and out loud what's going on in the Municipality of Koper, and that's why, of course, I can't get away from it, because I know the situation, because I know what's going on in the area of Ankara, because I know what's been going on in the area of Koper, because I know that for years and years. And there was no movement, but really no movement until the court, after I don't know how many complaints and retrials and so on, ordered, and yet I don't know whether this local community in Koper is receiving the funds or not. And nothing happens. The Minister and the Ministry of Public Administration and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government are powerless. I believe that nothing can be done, but then please make such changes to the Law on Local Self-Government, which will prevent such abuses of power in local communities. One of these options is that local communities where they exist in municipalities, because some municipalities do not even have because of their smallness, that local communities will truly be given legal personality in the sense of the word that as the smallest units, they can be like this in so much blackened socialism. They had this power and this right and they agreed to amend the spatial acts relating to their territory. But, of course, this is no longer the case with us because local communities in socialism were just some — anything to mention about the time of self - administration socialism is something very bad, very ugly. That's why I'm probably going to "fass" somewhere in the media, how nostalgic I am. No, I'm not nostalgic. I just want to say that if we already have the Aarhus Conventions, which we even ratified, then, please, we stick to these things. And if the mayor, the municipal administration, the municipal council violates these provisions, for my understanding of very difficult international acts, but nevertheless the necessary compliance, please write in law that the mayor and that administration and that municipal council that violates the Aarhus Convention, please pay dearly for it. Also at the cost of the municipal council being disbanded, the mayor to resign or something like that. I'll see what the law on local self-government says and the law on the financing of the municipalities you will bring. If we had done this a year ago and something else, there might not have been a proposal to appoint the local community of Ankaran from the Municipality of Koper and to request the establishment of a new congregation. When you show what your marriage will be like — now we have 16 years of experience from local government, and I think it is high time that from the experience we have on local government abuse, you have as much information as you want — show that we have learned something together. Not only are we now going to prevent the formation of new congregations; not that is the point of change. The essence of the changes is to remove the reasons for the fact that some local communities still want to establish independent congregations. The reasons for these acts, for these events, for this purpose, must be removed. Then there will be no more reasons for the formation of new congregations. And these reasons, they are very varied, they are very different, but they are very specific, very specific when it comes to wanting to set up the congregation of Ankaran! As a result, I think that there is probably not one among the 200 municipalities in Slovenia that would cause such a very specific requirement for the establishment of a municipality from one of the local communities. I think that those who oppose this, but this is your will, your conscience, but those who know the situation and oppose it, I think you are unjust to the people of Ankara.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u196	Mr. Franco Yuri, it's your turn now, do you want a word now?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I'd like to continue where she ended up with my colleague, Pechanov. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u198	There's only one thing I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u199	Me?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u200	Let us speak as it is written, please. Three-quarters of it wasn't like I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u201	Yeah, I will. We are talking about the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. And I repeat and agree with the opinion of colleague Pecan that this debate and this municipality would not have been reached if we had a significantly better law on local self-government. And that's the key to the problem. But I also agree with my colleague Tank, who said that the problem is not the size of the congregation, is not a problem. This is now a myth that some sell, czech, a small congregation cannot be effective. That's not true! Take a look at the European place, we have municipalities of 500 people in Kras, Goriškem, 500, 800. They're significantly less than Ankaran, and they're working well! Try now to suggest that they unite to make a larger congregation. They won't! Why won't they? You know why they won't? Because it is in a neighbouring country, Italy, that a great battle is being waged to manage public wealth, for example with water. Where are the processes of rapid water privatisation taking place? In large congregations, in large city municipalities. Not in small congregations. There people resist effectively and manage their territory. And if this right is not guaranteed, we will have, as Che Guevara once said, ten, one hundred, one thousand Ankarans, because they will resist willpower, in this particular case the will of one authority, one administration that does not listen and refuses to accept dialogue with certain local communities, in this case with the local community of Ankaran. I will give you one concrete example; for a year there is a debate on planning in that area, which is supposed to become a static area between the emerging, possible, future, third mall and St. Catherine. The Ankarans want that area as a place for recreation and sports activities. They've been fighting for years. They also now have certain facilities, infrastructures, they use it for that and they wanted something like that. They've been made a promise to all sides to get a sports park. Suddenly, the administration of the municipality of Koper decided that there would be a service for ships, a service for yachts and a change of plan, and did not take into account the will of the countrymen. That's what's going on. And today — do you know what's there? White fox. They exempt, removed that area from planning, from the State Spatial Plan. And everyone's waiting for what's gonna happen there. And there's a space degraded, there's a space useless, it's more and more ecologically controversial and you don't know what's going to happen. The locals would have arranged this by now with their own congregation. In this system and with such councilors of the Municipality of Koper, they have nothing to expect, since they all have a unified view of trumpeting in the same trumpet, the Ankarans must not have their rights. And then they get a nice reward or commendation, I mean a symbolic reward and a commendation for the work they've done. The fact is that we are dealing with a procedure that follows another procedure that has ended, we know how. If anyone can understand between the lines under what circumstances and why that famous voice was missing and now again after a regular procedure, we try to reach a point where the rights of the Ankarans, like the rights of the Mircians, will be guaranteed and realized. I'm telling you again. The referendum was of a consultative nature. We are not obliged and we are not obliged to vote as the people of Ankara have decided, but it has been binding and here constitutional lawyers are thinking about this dilemma if something is binding if something is foreseen in the procedure. And if this process has been regularly carried out by voting to the end, what legitimate right does a Member have to ensure the rule of law, constitutionality and justice — if we want to remain current — what moral right we have to press the button at some point and say, "Well, we don't care, it's not our story or we're defending other interests and those interests are not in line with the interests of that local community." Unfortunately, this has happened, and it can happen again. I hope not, I hope that tomorrow will prevail in wisdom and will prevail in the knowledge that it is our duty to confirm certain things. Our duty — moral, ethical, and political — is not to say constitutional and marital, for everyone has the right to vote as he wishes. But the fact is, with all these dilemmas and new legislation, I am also calling on the Minister to, I know that the law is already ready, that it is already on the committees and that it will change only Article 13 and nothing else, and that is bad. I will not be able to support such a law if there are no concrete changes that will prevent the requirements for the establishment of congregations under the threshold laid down in Article 13. I want a full-fledged marriage. Please also enter an article that gives local communities the legal personality to decide at least on the planning in the territory where the locals live. If that's not the case, we haven't solved the problem, but we're going to deepen it. If there is no legal possibility of establishing a congregation, then we will keep tensions under pressure within the congregations where there is will. Then we will have other scenarios that will not be of a legal nature or of a peaceful nature. Sometimes tension explodes when there is no legal possibility of settling the situation. Therefore, let us be careful, and if we are waiting for regionalisation, I also agree with those colleagues who say regionalisation would be a good system for the transfer of subsidiarity and would resolve a number of dilemmas at a different level, but unfortunately we have not reached this point yet. I hope, at least, that in the Local Self-Government Act, the Government will also take into account and, above all, the experience that no matter how we vote tomorrow — I do not allow myself to make any predictions, we will see tomorrow — but, regardless of the outcome of the vote, I believe that it is necessary to intervene specifically in the Local Self-Government Act. I hope that the Minister will also take advantage of this debate and try to add something else. Maybe it's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u202	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In some ways, I am grateful to the predecessors for telling them exactly why they stand up for the setting up of the congregation of Ankaran or for the breakup of the City Hall of Koper. And that's because they don't agree with one mayor's policy. The parishioners come and go. The Local Self-Government Act does not have this category as the basic condition for the establishment of municipalities. That's what this is about. And the debate on this was immediately at a low level for precisely these reasons. Now is not the time to discuss the Law on Local Self-Government, which is in the process. This isn't on the agenda. In fact, this initiative can be discussed in accordance with the existing law on local self-government. But unfortunately, the opposition to the politics of one mayor is not the reason for the establishment of municipalities. And that legislation is lacking, not only as regards local self-government and these procedures relating to the establishment of municipalities, but it is also lacking as to how to say management of space and certain economic and natural characteristics of a given territory. This also raises the concern of the people of Kopra, Izola and Piran, including members of the national communities. The potential degeneration of that space in cultural and landscape terms is a threat that exists. I will not support the congregation of Ankaran. I wish that the Municipality of Koper would live to the full in the future in a way that no one would feel threatened. I also wish that there would be no abuse of parliamentary procedures to protect narrow interests that are not in the constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u204	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Today, the scenario is quite well worked out, because advocates have a bad hour to move their positions and opponents for 10 minutes, but still. I will begin with the question of bilinguality opened by the bill-maker, and I will forget to say that he himself did not propose the bilingual name of the congregation. He wrote only the congregation of Ankaran, the commune of Ancarano, or the congregation of Ancarano. Then I would ask you to stop creating the impression that the result of the consultation referendum is binding and that when we make a decision differently, we will be able to pull people's backs in any local community. No, because everyone knows, everyone knows, and as long as there's legislation like that, they'll know the referendum is consultative. Perhaps that is why such a percentage of people in Ankara decided not to attend the referendum. Of course, it was different when, among the indications, they had to sign for the congregation of Ankaran, and I was personally called in by complaints to gather votes for the congregation of Koper, but after reading the initiative they found votes for the congregation of Ankaran. These two laws did not take account of the procedure which was concluded. Now he's just trying to skip everything and just vote. So we can conclude that, as long as we vote again, according to your assessment, you will vote wrong again and again and again, and once again, and once again, and once again, we will propose the same law until we vote, not as we think, but as you demand. It's a constitutional point of view. The proposer waved with his constitutional analysis. For example, we can wave all with constitutional analyses by Dr. Andraz Terška, but constitutional analyses are done by those who have special orders to do it and, of course, by expecting what should be written in it. I therefore respect both constitutional analyses, but I also respect the fact that they were both commissioned. The case of the Koper-Center National Community was presented. It's a great case. The Koper-center National Community — and I am a representative in its world — has not been funded for years, but it does not come to our minds to break up our congregation, but we know that we can reach our right with the new leadership of the congregation. And this is the correct and only legitimate way to change power properly in elections, not by breaking up the local community. Please include a brief presentation, because it would be good to see it from the beginning. Here we can see the state of today. Even if the proposer stayed and saw the situation, it would be good, but he's leaving because he's obviously not interested. Here we see Koper-center and Ankaran and the question of Luke Koper. In fact, one of the main arguments is the invasion of Luke Koper to Ankara. And you can see that the Koper-center lived for 50 years while he had to tolerate the presence of Luke Koper, and no matter what, he never demanded just his own bow duties. Because we're going to see that money is the only thing that interests Ankarans. This is a view of Luka Koper from Ankara or not from the centre of Ankara, you need to go out a little bit to see it. This is the view of Luka Koper from Kopra, where the presence is very invasive. It's nighttime that you can feel the difference. Regardless, Coper doesn't just want his own money. One more look and let's move on. Three main arguments, why would the establishment of Ankara be necessary? Herds of stepmother's relationship, wild shores and non-investment. Well, as for the first one, the Koper Municipality has built a school and a new kindergarten in Ankara in the last four years. With regard to the failure to build the coast — since 2002, it has not turned the square metre of agricultural land into a building plot. And those who say they're fighting for the Ankaran Congregation to stop the building are simply manipulating. And if we move on, as far as non-investment is concerned — the Municipality of Koper itself invested almost a million and a half euros in projects along the Adriatic Road, regardless of the state road. And we're moving on. What's the real reason? Luka Koper's contributions amount to around €8 million, of which Ankaran wants only EUR 3.5 million for itself. One last pass. This will happen if there is a breakdown of the congregation. Now about 8 million [[...]] Members, please, who won't let me tell them to calm down. Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. You don't have to yell that time's up. Time runs out when the bell rings, you know that very well for yourself, who know the rules of procedure very well. Let's move on. Let's go back to the previous graph, which is essential. In blue, we see the current distribution of onions duties. Approximately €170 per person in the Municipality of Koper, 8 million. This will happen, and the initiators of the municipality of Ankara know this well: 3.5 million for 3,000 people will mean nearly 1,200 euros for the Ankarans, who want their own taxes or taxes for all Koprčanka and Koprčanov, while Kopru will have about 90 euros per capita. And what happens when you break the vitals into two parts in the yellow circle, into a part in Ankaran? It will happen that the Kopercans and the Kopercans will also make one plus one and also require their own congregation. And the result will be when solidarity falls in our Korinj municipality, that we will have two very wealthy congregations along the coast and three very poor rural congregations that will live at the expense of the state. That's what we do, and you [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u206	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities for a simple reason. As long as the Law on Local Self-Government and the establishment of Areas permits this, it is not contrary to the Constitution or any other practice. Those who have spoken here today that municipalities under 5,000 people are evil in this country or that there is something to be done in the field of local self-government, I suggest that the Ministry of Local Self-Government prepare the following law: abolish all municipalities, abolish all mayors, establish 14 regions and have regions rule in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u208	Mr. Anderlich, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u209	It happens that when it's presented over the screen, it doesn't count down. It's obvious whether or not it is, because when [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u210	It didn't happen, Mr. Anderlich. It didn't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u211	We were looking at an hour yeah, eventually it went off. [[...]] [[...]] No, no, you don't either. We're gonna go down there and find out because we've been through a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u212	Okay, but not today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u213	Mr President, you have some experience, and you know this as well as I do. Done, done.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u214	Well, if you don't mind, I'd just say something as chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u215	Yeah, not mine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u216	I evaluated it, so I also went to a coworker to see if it was available for about three and a half minutes. I've remembered so much. And when it was over for a while, I asked. Time ran well, and he also hit the gong when it was necessary, for the first time, for the second time. End of debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u217	We'll check it out. It's okay. That's better. Trust is fine, but control is even better. There is no other in such circumstances when someone is forced to present some arguments and accuses everyone else of having no idea that they do not know what happened to the port, that they do not know what. Yeah, sure, that's what this is about. There's been a typical manipulation of what's said, you say the referendum is a sacred matter, and I say it's consultative. Just tell me why you invited these people to the referendum. Why did they have that option? Just because you didn't vote doesn't count as nothing. Like when I vote "yes", no decision has been taken or vice versa, it does not matter if most of our regulations are prescribed and counted. This shows the attitude of power and arrogance towards the people who are taxpayers in this country who pay taxes that sustain this country and who, on the other hand, have the right to exercise local self-government. And that's what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that this assembly has assessed that the conditions, however you wish, are met at this time Article 13a, and this condition has been fulfilled. And that's what this is all about. We are now at a stage where the law, as often as anyone wants to submit it to the procedure, can be considered. How many times? Except when it is prescribed that a particular case should not be taken, for example, when a referendum is passed, a different decision must not be taken for one year. You probably know that, too. That's not what this is about. Yeah, sure, yeah, the consultation, it doesn't matter to you, but it's important to the people we send there. So why didn't you choose the cheaper variants, the public poll and hire this professor and do this poll?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u218	Please, Dr. Luke Yuri, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u219	For a little while. I simply suggest that a fellow Member should be given an additional monitor with an hour before him to avoid further controversy, so that those poor four minutes that his colleague has at his disposal will not be able to take away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u220	Well, you know that's not possible by any Rules of Procedure, not by our own. Thank you very much. Does he still want a word with the government? No, no, no. On behalf of the proposer? Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u221	[[Advertising from the hall]] . Thank you, Paul, for your advice, but I will not deny everything I have said, I will confirm, once again, everything I have said before and what I will do until this procedure is up to date and until we vote on it. A number of constitutional studies were mentioned today. Indeed, I have also read Mr Tersk's study and respect it and, of course, there are four constitutional lawyers with a larger kilometre. But also that study is interesting, it must probably be compared and found somewhere to be a sustainable interpretation. This interpretation will be given by the Constitutional Court. Let's wait, wait and see what the Constitutional Court will find out whether what we are doing with Ankara is, somewhere moderately aligned with the mandate, with the role or mission we have as Members, we will see that. I think there is a lot of room for debate here, perhaps even for academic debate, but the fact is that we decide the fate and fate of specific people, of particular territory, and I do not take the issue that this is just the way to get rid of a certain mayor. The same who say so resented the fact that we are offering the mayor a new victory in the elections. So they have to decide for themselves now what we're talking about. I don't think this has anything to do with the concrete political will to do with this or that mayor. The fact is, in these 200 and so many municipalities in Slovenia there is a system of municipal governance, and the territory that some people may abuse is not the case. Most mayors perform dialogue to the population, to local communities, to the city council. But when the city council has 70% of the party members or list of one mayor, then this dialogue is weighed down. The fact. And the lack of this dialogue leads to some tensions that foster the emergence of new congregations. And I wonder why? Why? Because there's obviously no security guard to avoid it. Our marriage is as it is, and as long as it is, and if we change it only in Article 13, everything will remain that way, there will be tension. This is a knowledge that can be useful to all of us. And I think we all agree a little bit at this point that something should be done in order to avoid such difficult situations. At Ankaran, the fact is, they're asking me why, you're Koprčan, you're elected to Izola, but you've been working and working with Ankaran. Here we deal with the basic dilemmas of our democracy and also our local self-government. Ankaran doesn't, because he would have any particular interest in Ankara. I don't have them, although some have tried to prove it and have written in various forums to get parcels or I don't know what. No, let them prove it. It's not my responsibility if some people write lies and try to discredit some of them. We are also discussing today the model, the development model of Slovenia, on the part concerning local self-government, how this local self-government should work. Ankaran is a wonderful model. Let's give them a chance, give them a chance if the law allows it. And I say the law makes it possible, Mr. Battelli. You're saying no, you're saying it was a violation of the law, but that's your opinion, a respectful opinion, but it's only your opinion. There was no opinion of most Members in the National Assembly, there was no opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, there was no opinion of the Government, and there may not be an opinion of the Constitutional Court. That's why it's your opinion. You can stick to it, but you can't come out of your own opinion as absolute. There's still evidence to prove that. That is why we are discussing our views, our beliefs, and our views. It is my view that we should proceed with the procedure that this law is appropriate for further consideration and I regret that this Chamber is so empty and that today we are only closer interested parties or Members involved in this matter, but I believe that a number of Members are following this debate either in their office or through their third programme and that they are drawing their own opinion on this. But surely the Ankarans and the Mircians are watching us and are wondering whether this country is, in fact, or is overcoming the rights arising from the referendum. This consultative referendum is indeed consultative, Comrade Yuri, but it is also binding. That's what constitutional lawyers wrote. It means that without a referendum there is no procedure and there is no vote and there is no law. And, if it is mandatory, it follows that the outcome of the referendum is not only an optional thing, but it puts us in a position to decide on one fundamental right. I repeat, an example of confirmation of the mandate of Members and confirmation of the mandate of municipal councillors. At that time, the example of the municipal council of Cyprus was well known, and I am surprised that Members coming from that municipal council are careful not to talk about the illegal operation of the administration of the Municipality of Koper in this case. There was an entire action launched, sent to the administrative court and what was found to be something [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u222	Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u223	Mr Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u224	Things are more for the town world of Koper than for our hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u225	This has something to do with Ankaran. Since illegality has been taking place in the Municipality of Koper for years, illegality has taken place for years and is viewed as a fraction, some today find the establishment of Ankaran illegal. You understand. From that environment came this initiative, from an environment where two seats in the urban world are still empty. Is that right? [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Not since last week. [[...]] How long were they empty? The law had to be changed — we changed it here in order to remedy the illegal situation. You understand the paradoxes we're experiencing, and because of such excesses, we come to conclusions that something needs to be changed. And even with an Ankaran case we have to get to one lesson, it's not all that smooth and it's not that simple, but one of them wants to remove the mayor and they invented Ankaran. It would be nice — the Sanctus simlicitas! - if everything was that easy. Some have specific interests to prevent the establishment of Ankara, including financial, even economic, even personal. And this should be carefully analyzed once. The fact is, Luke Koper also works with two congregations, although some want to convince us that Luke Koper will no longer exist if a new congregation is formed. That's one big bottle. We'd just like to negotiate with two congregations. And the same applies to the national community. It is necessary to ensure all special rights and these special rights that the new municipality guarantees and must be helped to ensure maximum this, but not prioritise that this is used to prevent them from exercising the right arising from the consultation referendum. This right exists, is not as absolute as it is in legislation, then we do not even talk about justice, the legislative referendum is legislative and is duty and end. Here they expressed what their right is — to expect the National Assembly to listen to their will. If we do not listen to them, we will assume our responsibility for such a relationship, for such carelessness. But let's not expect people to follow us tomorrow when we invite them to the referendums because they will resist because we are creating conditions for rebellion, civil rebellion, democratic, peaceful rebellion, not the way we saw it last week. But people have the right to resist if they feel that their fundamental rights are violated and violated. This is not demagogies, it is not demagogies, but it is the conclusion that we are obliged as politicians to create a country in which people will believe. And today, unfortunately, the level of confidence in state institutions, in referendums, in Parliament is very low. Let's ask ourselves why it's so low. And in such things I follow, I think, the philosopher Wattim, the good Italian philosopher. He says things start in microcosms, not in large systems, no more times of great ideology, big systems. Today we fight to ensure that people have rights where they live, where they live, where they work, where they vote, where they pay taxes, and this needs to be taken into account case by case, not only to think globally or locally, we will save unity so that one economic society can earn more or that one city municipality can manage many local communities and selectively turn them against each other. And that’s what you do — Divide et impera! A large congregation, such as the Korah congregation, could be very successful and could be a model of a good, large city congregation. Unfortunately, only those who accept the dictatorship and know what happened to the local communities at the centre, to the local community of Houston, to the local community of Ankara, are living through conflicts everywhere, but they are so selectively positioned that always one majority of the local communities is opposed to the interests of one minority of the local community. This majority-to-minority logic is a constant that allows, unfortunately, legislation. So let us be careful with these large municipal organisms. As I said earlier, the fact is that small congregations were better defended when water was privatized in Italy, and the larger congregations were worse. There's a lot of trouble there. There come corporations, there come big companies, and people can't defend themselves because the system is big, they don't control it. In small congregations, yes, they were well defended, well organized, and not easy to penetrate. Therefore, some fear small organisms and therefore do not give up and will never give up in place of small congregations, because they have a high quality of life as well as territorial governance. So, this ideology about the weakness of small congregations, I think, is one such stereotype that we should get rid of. It comes from some logic that urban culture and urban society are significantly more developmental, advanced than small local, supposedly autocratic, but they are not always autractic. Small communities can also function very well. It is important how they organized them internally, subsidized within the state body, and when the provinces are around, it will also become easier. Well, I still have five minutes, but I'm not gonna use them. Thank you for listening to me, and I hope you will support the continuation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u226	Mr. Battelli, you've raised your hand for the replica before. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I am listening very carefully to Mr Yuri and I think it would be a shame to add anything to what we have heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u228	Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u229	President, I would only suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u230	Is that a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u231	when, in the fact that I am no longer able to replicate or discuss manipulation and, unfortunately, also the non-truths that I have heard at a certain point by the proposer to warn him not to use such manipulations. [[...]] In particular, because we cannot and do not have the right to reply to those who feel otherwise and who live in this case of Kopra. It does not seem right for the proposer to wait for the word to run out, that we no longer have time, and then to move on with the facts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u232	Mr Yuri, this was a procedural proposal to be a procedural proposal, but it was not. And that's why I'm grateful you stopped. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Just one. I'm opening the application. Mr. Anton Anderlich. They're available all the time, five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u233	30 minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u234	Five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u235	If we have all the time, it's 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u236	I was being direct. Five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u237	It's okay, because you don't have to, because it's more than obvious that no one is going to be able to convince anyone. That those who have left have been convinced one way or another, and those who are here, as well. It is only right, however, that these things are considered primarily to be a debate on the matter and not to label applicants as trying to find out what is in the background, who has any interest and so on. This is just about who has some responsibility, who follows what this body has finally started, so the procedure began with the National Assembly by its decision. We are in the final phase and the question is whether we respect these things or not. However, in the end it must be clear and loud, it is a democratic procedure, it is a matter of rights, it is the duties of those involved in this process, including the National Assembly. And from this point of view, if anyone can explain that anyone has, since the assembly has taken a decision on a proposal from the Government, which has otherwise not supported the proposal for a referendum or for the establishment of a municipality, but has respected the legal basis and has found that the conditions have been met. That they have no political will is a completely different matter. I wonder if, in the end, it would be more wrong to organise public opinion research in a different way? Because you are also doing public research with a view to finding out what people want, what their will is, so that different policies can be formulated. Public opinion research is also intended for this purpose. Not only are they designed to count, but they have more support for the right or the left, one or the other, but they are intended to determine which policy in public enjoys greater support? If that's what you wanted, then that's the answer you got. People there want to organise themselves differently, so they have fulfilled conditions and have constitutional rights, not only constitutional ones, but also the European Charter on Local Self-Government, and a number of other documents have been ratified by the National Assembly, which this country has incorporated into its legal order and are common to all democratic countries across Europe, not to go any further. And that's what this is all about. It's not about whether I'm a sympathizer or not a sympathizer, or whether I like to kick more on the kopra side of the local community center or more on the Ankaran hills or fields and vineyards than you're showing here on these slides. There's no discussion about that. However, how citizens and citizens have the right to take care of themselves in what environment they will live in, how they will draw attention to problems, is an indisputable fact. And anyone who tries to evaluate the fact that there is nothing more wrong in these debates than actually doing so is wrong. And it's not right! But when someone proves to me that this is not the case and when the law is passed, yes, I myself will be very critical if we change the law. Moreover, it is said that the Law on Local Self-Government is intended to change only because of this and only at this point in order to avoid any attempt to re-examine the requirements of the municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna. That would be absurd. And if that's the point, if that's the case, then I'll tell you that she's going to be a very bad passenger for this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u238	Dr. Luke Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. An example was given of how small congregations were to live idyllicly in neighboring Italy. No mention was made of the cost of these small congregations and the inefficiency of the government with small congregations. Here, however, it binds to the Slovenian case, which in Slovenia does not mean a higher quality of life. Where are we of the smallest municipalities in Slovenia? In Prekmurje. Is this the most developed region in Slovenia? Or perhaps the least developed region in Slovenia? So please be correct, not a small congregation or a large congregation in itself does not mean any harm, depending on how it is run. However, the fact that a small municipality under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, as established in Slovenia, is significantly more expensive for the country. Ankaran, of course not because he's counting on taxes from Luke Koper. 3.5 million, which is 1,200 euros per capita and with the other Korčankas and Kobrčans, which built this port, will remain only 90 euros per capita. That's what this is about. Money. There was a case of a councilman in Cyprus. An example that I have also fought for, and I believe that the mayor and most in the municipal world have acted wrongly, but we have never once thought of going to break the congregation because of the situation towards our mayor. But we are always and still strive to replace him in elections, as is right. It surprises me to note the case of the validation of mandates with the case of local self-government. The decision of the municipality is not an automatic vote, as it is supposed to be an example of confirmation of mandates, because it is the creation of local self-government, that is, the way in which local self-government is designed, the prerogative of the National Assembly in our constitutional order. If it were different, the referendum would be binding and the National Assembly would not have to vote again, it would be over. But no — because it is the prerogative of the National Assembly. If we change the arrangements, it won't be any more, but at this point, it's a prerogative. Everyone in Slovenia has the right to local self-government, and this is the right to have municipalities formed on their territory. The municipalities are formed throughout Slovenia. What congregations, how large, by what name, with what territory is the prerogative of the National Assembly until we change constitutional systems. Please also, we do not manipulate the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the Municipality of Koper, which clearly speaks in its content of the disagreement between urban and rural work. Breaking up with the congregation of Ankaran would mean more serious unconstitutionality after that decision. So please don't manipulate, because most people don't know, most people don't know this content, and it's incorrect to use it, and say that by setting up the Ankaran congregation, we're going to save the constitution. Well, speaking of constitutionality. The motioner said, let the Constitutional Court decide what is right and what is wrong and here is a clear contradiction with itself. In fact, on the one hand, he swears to constitutional order, to the decision of the Constitutional Court, he swears to proceedings, but at the same time, he forces and demands a decision in the National Assembly over all legal proceedings. So at the same time, he says, let us wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court, and he is forcing Members and Members to rule again on the same law. It's completely contradictory. I read the magnetogram when the applicant complained when we had to, only when the coalition proposed it, re-vote the final bill. There has been talk of evicting and raping Members. Today, when the proposer did exactly that and rapes Members with the same law, with the same content, because he thinks they voted wrong, of course, everything is fine. I will only conclude with my conviction that, as soon as we establish the Municipality of Ankara, it will not be long before the Korpčankas and Kopčany in the centre realize that they are worth it, because they will be able to receive the remainder of the duties of Luka Koper, to have their own congregation, and in the end will be the result of such reckless action by the Member elected in Isola, among other things, with the support of another insolent Member, that we will have 5 new municipalities instead of one successful. More responsibility would be needed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-25-SDZ5-Izredna-24.ana.u240	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow, 26. 5. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
