ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Branko Grimes and Jakob the Presbyterian. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 12. 11. 2010 I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that you set the agenda for today's meeting, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's for a re-decision on the Small Piece Act. The State Council is at its 24th extraordinary session. 11. Requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again on the Small Work Act before being declared. In order to explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Drago Jury. Please, Mr. Jury.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! It reads beautifully what is written in the goals and purposes that the Small Work Act is supposed to achieve. Or listen to the minister who'll talk to you about it after me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u3	Wait a minute, the microphone doesn't work, even though it's on. We'll try again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Reads well what is stated in the goals and purposes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u5	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Attention, this is why you do not hear the representative of the Council of State, I ask for peace. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u6	Thank you very much. One more time. It reads beautifully what is written in the goals and purposes that the Small Work Act is supposed to achieve. Or listen to a minister tell you about it after me. One is writing and speaking as a theory, and quite another is what marriage should bring in practice. I'm afraid I'm limited to five minutes, so I have to say right away at the beginning that I'm only going to be able to say a little bit of what should be said here. The law actually regulates so-called student work, so in the beginning I must stress in particular that there are problems with the student work and that they need to be solved, but problems need to be solved, not all other things. We need to look at the issue of student work through the prisms of those who have to work honestly to work, not through the prism of those who abuse the instrument or through prism, which we have witnessed recently, the problems of student services and the problems of student organisations. In this respect, this law gives completely wrong, both substantive and time solutions, both for the students and for the unemployed. The law mixes students, students, unemployed and pensioners in the same bag.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u7	Mr. Jury, put the microphones together. I picked them up for you. Maybe it'll get better now. Thank you. Please, if you'll continue. Go on, Mr. Jury.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I wouldn't repeat everything from the beginning, but I hope there'll be some red thread of what I wanted to say. As has already been said, the law throws students, students, and unemployed and pensioners into the same bag — 4 completely incomparable groups where each one has its own specific problems. From the perspective of the labour market, the Small Work Act will certainly have irreparable consequences. It will increase the scope of precarious forms of work, and young people will find it significantly harder to find regular employment to provide them with economic and social security, because they will simply continue to be small workers. The scope of regular employment, I am referring here to the employment that has been concluded on the basis of contracts of employment, will certainly be reduced. The law will certainly also have an impact on the cost of work and thus on the reduction of the rights of employees whose rights are governed by collective agreements. As the cost of working in small jobs for employers will be much lower, as the employer also recognises, employers will increase employment in small jobs in the future and will also abolish jobs in a way that will replace more small parts instead of one regular working relationship. Unlike small workers, I stress here from the regular working relationship, but not from the student work, which some have been trying to distort lately, little work does not bring cash compensation during the period of illness, reimbursement of transportation costs, paid lunch, paid leave, retirement period, allowance at work, retirement, cash compensation at the time of care of the child, cash compensation for the birth of the child, nor does it bring a fair pension, rights to a 30-minute break and, finally, the right to strike. The practical consequences of the law will be that pensioners will receive an institution that is O.K., but a large majority on the other hand wish that they never have to use it. The unemployed will remain permanent young workers and poor people, and students and students will be deprived of the opportunity of occasional and temporary work as we know them today and represent for a third of the population the emergency and only social collective that actually allows them to study. Here we can talk about the elitising of higher education mainly at the expense of rural areas. In short, I would like to mention what has happened to the population of students and students in the last decade. The proportion of those who live in the dormitory has decreased greatly. Every 8 students today can live in a dormitory. The proportion of those receiving the scholarship has decreased further. If 10 years ago every 3rd student received a scholarship, he now receives a scholarship every 4 students. It also focused on the areas of transport subsidies, health insurance, income, and now we are witnessing the abolition of work opportunities and school fees are already forecasting. In short, I mentioned at the outset, but I can repeat once again that in the State Council we are aware that there are irregularities and anomalies in the field of student work, but the measure cannot be termination, and this law actually means termination for students and students. The opinion is that the complexity of the population's situation requires a comprehensive approach, not a partial one, which means this law. First, measures in the field of scholarship and residence must be implemented, with measures in terms of scope in the field of student and student works and in terms of supervision and uniform registration records. This will address the vast majority of the problems and only after the evaluation of these measures has been carried out should it address measures such as this law in the field of student and student work. But to do so is the first step here today. First, we must reject the Small Work Act as we know it. In the next step, our view is that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u9	Mr. Jury, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u10	exclude the category of unemployed and then, on this assumption, in social dialogue with young people, find the best solutions to the problem to be addressed by the Small Work Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Small Work Act adopted by the National Assembly at its 21st session, 26. Ten. 2010 The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in the introductory explanation. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which does not define, in relation to the requirement under its powers, the reasons for the State Council’s argument concerning the issue of substantive nature. Since the Council of State has not defined itself in its request to those persons, but has only identified itself on substantive issues, the Legislative and Legal Service has not been able to define their request. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Government, which presented the individual reasons why the Government rejected the State Council's allegations of a request that the National Assembly should reconsider its decision on the Small Work Act and rejected all the indications. The Government considers that the reasons for the State Council’s request for re-decision on the law are not justified. In a long and controversial debate, the members of the Committee pointed out the many shortcomings brought about by the adoption of the law, particularly the lack of dialogue with individual groups, the problem of the unemployed, which, according to the majority, did not belong to the group of beneficiaries for a small job, the special arrangements of the student work within the framework of the separate law, the reduction or limitation of hours in relation to the performance of small work, the possibility of abuse in the performance of small work, the orientation that consideration should be given to allowing regular work for an indefinite period of time. Most members stressed, however, that the Small Work Act provides a system of small work arrangements that allows for better transparency and transparency of work and introduces additional rights acquired primarily by students through the adoption of this law. In particular, they pointed out that students should be stimulated as much as possible to complete studies, since the average study age of each student in Slovenia is one of the longest periods in Europe. The aim of the students is to study, not temporary or occasional work, to which other legislation and measures should help. Following the discussion, the Committee voted by 7 votes to 5 with respect to the following opinion: The Small Work Act is appropriate. The Committee did not adopt the proposed opinion by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government who is proposing the law. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished guests! In my career, I have recently witnessed a decision on an interestingly clear dilemma, such as a small job. If you support the Small Work Act, you will allow more than 100,000 citizens of Slovenia who already have social security, such as students, students, unemployed or pensioners, to strengthen this social security with little work. In order to obtain additional income, establish or maintain contact with the world of work, include or maintain inclusion in pension insurance and strengthen their dignity. You will also allow more work than is now done in legal frameworks in the form of a working relationship, to pay contributions from this work and to make it easier for businesses to adapt to short-term fluctuations in the market. If you do not support the Small Work Act, you will deny these options to all these groups, especially the pensioners and the unemployed. You will preserve the student work as it is, and this is the most precarious form of work without all social rights from this part of itself on this basis. You will prevent employers from offering part of their student work in the form of a working relationship and thus hiring more young people who are now working through travel. You will make it impossible for more resources from concession fees to go to scholarship funds and student homes, instead of to the profits of student workers who invest these profits in buffets, hotels, yachts and expensive cars. One of the ways to limit the grey economy will remain so untapped. She's not the only one, but she's one of the roads. The dilemma is clear or benefits 100,000 citizens, students, students, unemployed and pensioners or benefit a few dozen individuals who are directly or indirectly taking advantage of the work of students today. The problem is not a small job or the Small Work Act, but EUR 15 million, which will no longer allow the private profits of intermediaries and the other 15 million, which the beneficiaries will have to spend more transparently than the student organisations are now, these are dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The requirement of the Council of State after re-decision on the Small Work Act is based on the assumption that it will have irreparable consequences on the labour market. Members are confident that the adoption of the law will lead to an increase in precarious forms of work, making it more difficult for young people to work more regularly and thus ensure economic and social security. Little work should also not be an alternative for the unemployed and those who are looking for their first job after school, which makes professional growth impossible for them in the next phase. We cannot really attach these arguments to the Group, as the majority of the Group is convinced that the labour market is one that also allows for the volume of regular employment. In the case of abuse of employers, which the State has given them to a certain degree of flexibility in employment, it is the supervisory institutions which will have to identify and sanction offenders more rapidly than ever before. In the Group of Members, we are aware that the very content of the law in the procedure in a number of points or definitions has changed and been supplemented. The starting point was, of course, to find solutions that would consistently pursue the objectives set, this is a uniform arrangement of various temporary forms of work. This will allow pensioners, the unemployed, the inactive, as well as students who will perform occasional and occasional work or a small job to have comparable rights from social security and thus adequate safety in the labour market. Therefore, Members and Members of Parliament have spent a great deal of time redistributing funds and levies in order to devote themselves to projects aimed at students and pensioners. These will be divided according to the size of the small part by target, group and will be awarded in a public tender where all organisations of the student associations, pensioners and other operators can run for that target group. In order to bring the different positions closer together, we have drawn up a Commission composition during the debate in the Group of Members, which will distribute the funds by representing the appropriate number of people and representatives of all the target groups. In fact, we are also convinced that there is a possibility that the activity will not be distorted, such as Radio Student, Beletrine to students and other publishers, and to entities that care about cultural affairs with this money. In view of the comments received from individual representatives of economic operators, it is precisely because of the labour market in the last reading that we have added a supplement for employers who employ only an employee or no employee. In this way we have determined more appropriately the number of hours of small work allowed in the calendar year. Student work, we must all admit together, has brought a lot of positive in the past. It's positive and it's good. In the past, I have also worked very hard through student service in my student years and have gained experience. But over the years, let's face it, things have broken down. There are anomalies, violations, irregularities, fraud, earnings. That is why things need to be settled, and the Small Work Act is in this sense, and according to most of the members of our Group of Members, the right and right solution is going in the right direction. That is why today, I must say, in the majority of the Group of Members, we will not support the veto, while some Members continue to have valid reasons not to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Nice greetings from Members of Parliament, students and students, students, ministers with a team! In the third reading of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, I already see ahead of time, when we will also have Members in the next term, we did not vote in favour of the Small Work Act. It is pointless to support such a law, which is not supported in this country, which unfortunately confuses the labour market rather than improve the situation. Mr Minister, Members of the Slovenian People's Party are proposing that, immediately after today's vote, you, together with the students, establish a new dialogue and put the so-called student package into the national assembly procedure as soon as possible. We have been talking about this student package in the Slovenian People's Party since the Small Work Act. The bill will be coordinated with the students, properly regulated by the comprehensive scholarship policy and also by the student work. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already warned in the position of the Group at first reading that the law should be monitored, adopted at the same time as the regulation of the scholarship policy. So that there will be no disastrous consequences for young people, especially for those students and students from rural areas, mainly again for those whose fears are unemployed, whether they are at social aid and most of our students and students are from rural areas. To blame today that Members and Members will be responsible for something if they do not accept this law is not fair. In the first place – Minister – unfortunately, the practice has been such that even within the coalition you do not comply, let alone coordinate with those to whom the legislation is intended. In the Slovenian People’s Party, however, we simply know how to listen to people, listen to them, and hear them. This is important. It is important for the Government that it is able to listen and even hear citizens and citizens. People always warn, don't warn, so they yell that they want a simple and simple job. Give them the job. Being employed with all rights such as sick, maternity, summer leave and so on is a fundamental right. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Give people a job, not a little work, but one more job. But of course, there is as little as possible misinterpretation. As is unfortunately the case with some government ministers who provide package solutions. Today they say they're not there, and tomorrow they'll be in the package, but they were with a small share. Small thieves or big thieves — apparently some ministers can define this very well. It will encourage the economy to open up new jobs, that is the right one, but not in a way that no one in this country agrees with. Believe me, your fellow Members and colleagues, that everyone knows whether they manage or not to manage the country, so those who have the right to manage the country should know more about the best social policy – the policy of new jobs. Therefore, the Minister, as we have suggested – sit down with the students and come with the student package. We will listen to you in the Slovenian People's Party and also support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and Secretary of State! The DeSUS Group will not reject the Small Work Bill even when re-voting, although we have some concerns. The solutions follow the current situation caused by student work anomalies. It follows the needs of the different populations that need short-term work to ensure that they improve their income position and contact the labour market, as well as to adapt to the needs of employers for greater flexibility in the recruitment of workers in exceptional and unpredictable situations mainly in the economic sector. As regards the two groups of beneficiaries of small work, we are pleased with the proposed arrangement in our Party's Group of Members. Playing and abuse of student work will be disabled in the future at least within the legal framework. Work after retirement, which has already been highlighted on several occasions, brings a lot of positive results, both for those pensioners who want to remain active according to their capabilities, or for those pensioners who have to seek an additional source of income because of their low pension, to be able to pay their living expenses or to improve their economic standards because of their desire for additional activities that they enjoy. Of course, the possibility of occasional work of pensioners will also be welcome for employers, as this will give them the opportunity to take advantage of the long-standing experience of their former co-workers who will be able to transfer their knowledge to younger workers. That little work is taxed, as is the case under this law, it is perfectly logical, since certain rights are also acquired from these sources, while the funds collected are intended to implement projects of all 3 groups of beneficiaries of small work. It is true, however, that in DeSUS we are very skeptical and concerned about the integration of the unemployed among the beneficiaries of small work. According to our assessment, it is very likely that small work will have negative consequences for the unemployed to become captives of small work, as today's crowd of unemployed people, despite the limits set, undoubtedly makes this possible. It is particularly difficult to expect employers to be interested in regular employment during the economic crisis. Employers are still not interested enough to employ the labour force in accordance with current labour legislation, as much of GDP has already taken place in the pre-crisis period. We can speak from 5 billion to 9 billion a year in a rough estimate. In spite of our concerns, we have agreed to support the law, because in some ways we have introduced a fuse that will allow at least very careful monitoring and consideration of the effects of small work on employment. In particular, with a focus on the evaluation of the effects of small work on the unemployed population. This will give us, according to our assessment, the possibility of timely action to prevent the serious consequences of overexploiting this time and occasional forms of employment, including distorted patterns of the labour market and, last but not least, the negative impact on the state's social treasury. We are convinced that it is imperative to address issues of black work and control in an appropriate and destructive manner. Both this area and little work must be discarded from appropriate inspection controls and this area also shows a more quantitative and qualitative improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the law is, in any event, to include such work in the social treasury mechanism in the first place, the purpose of ensuring comparable social security rights. Among other things, the aim of the law is to reduce the possibility of black employment and the fact that such forms of work play an important role in the labour market. Above all, the necessary flexibility and competitiveness in the labour market must be highlighted. Of course, this is not the only role and function of small work. If we think about actors, these are mostly students, unemployed, retired and so on. Above all, restrictions need to be raised, which is most problematic. This is a restrictive law involving small work that an individual could do in a calendar year, and this is a provision that upsets the public and breaks the spears. In particular, students and, indirectly, their families are not least seeking this bill, so in this respect, the contentious provisions of the law concern not only students and students, but also a much wider part of the population. Unfortunately, there is a legitimate fear that work will flourish in black. We doubt that some 100 working inspectors will be able to control 150 000 students and students, monitor and ensure proper compliance with the provisions of the law. The past has confirmed that. If we just think of a huge number of businesses and regular employees, especially when we think about how effective — under the terms of reference — only these inspectors have been in control so far. When employers realize that they can slowly push most employees into a small job because it will pay them off, this will bring a lot of problems behind them. The comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which are mainly referred to in Article 4, which discusses restrictions on different employers, are also justified. According to them, this does not correspond to the structure of the Slovenian economy, even the hourly quotas are distributed very disproportionately and unfairly among employers according to the number of employees in the employers and we fully agree with them. Nor was the specificity of service activities taken into account in the proposal for a law on the allocation of hourly quotas, and in the Slovenian National Party we believe that the applicant did not produce the content of this Article perfectly. The content of the proposal was justifiably excited by the Slovenian public, all structural and age groups of the population and also employers. Therefore, substantial corrections should be made to the law. If the Government wishes, inter alia, to increase employment for an indefinite period of time, to increase social security, it should direct measures towards an appropriate way of stimulating companies that work indefinitely, to additionally tax employment for a certain period of time, which could be reimbursed to the employer in full if the same employee, after the end of a fixed-term employment relationship, were to be paid to the employer for an indefinite period of time. Money collected from such additional taxes could be devoted to creating new jobs for indefinite periods and also for other purposes such as student homes, student diets, and so on. I list only a few options to solve the problem of the inadmissibility of some of the substantive provisions of the law and certainly in the Slovenian National Party due to that draft law we will not adopt in such a form, because it causes too many problems and problems in its further implementation and we will certainly vote against it. The law will have irreparable consequences in the labour market. It will increase the scope of uncertain forms. Young people will find it significantly harder to find regular employment to provide them with economic and social security. Here we fully agree with the opinion of the State Council. I would also mention the under-thinking structure of students and students, because we are aware that this law and those restrictions will have catastrophic consequences for young people, especially for rural students, from remote places living, living outside university centres, and therefore have significantly higher study costs. This is also the case with their families, which continues to mean a number of social problems for affected families.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, representative of the Council of State! A few days ago, the Council of State voted veto on the Small Work Act and gave us a chance to reconsider the solutions provided by law. This law regulates and allows occasional and occasional forms of work to be carried out, but at the same time it is clearly regulated by law. The purpose of the law is to reduce work in black and to place it in at least one part within the framework of small work. Small work is not a form of regular working relationship and therefore cannot allow a small worker to benefit from the rights arising from the regular working relationship governed by the Labour Relations Act. The law allows students, pensioners and unemployed persons to do a small job and allows them to earn additional earnings on an equal footing. An important novelty is the payment of contributions from a small part of the health and pension allowance. The legislator thus followed the solution that each work counts. We strongly support this in the LDS, because both cash registers are based on a solidarity principle and therefore we need to finance it from all forms of work. A small amount of work will be burdened by contributions more than ever before on student work, and it will still be the cheapest form of work that will allow legal occasional employment. The work carried out by students and students represents only 4% of all working hours, but in the proportion of persons under 30 years of age, it represents as much as 15% of the working population. The student population is thus not only unfair competition for fellow graduates, but also for the lower-educated younger labour force, as their work is still more expensive than a student can do. For a certain lower hourly item of small work, this problem is therefore resolved and we will also protect the small worker and prevent unfair competition in the labour market. One of the key novelties of the law is the establishment of monthly and annual quotas for small work. The quotas are set for workers and employers. In this way, little work will be maintained in the context of occasional employment, but it will no longer be possible for the work process to take place solely in this form of work. This will help to create new jobs. The legislator also took into account that groups that would be able to do little work are in different situations, so students have an annual quota of hours and for the other 2 groups are monthly. Students will thus be able to distribute work throughout the year according to their study obligations, which are their primary obligation. However, they will still be able to work, either to improve their social status, to enable themselves to study or to gain work experience. Work experience will be re-recorded in the central record and little work will also be counted during the retirement period, which is a welcome innovation in the extension of retirement age. In the LDS, we have always stressed that the limitation of small work should not jeopardise the decision to study young and socially weaker families, so we are pleased to see that the improvement of the social status of students has been largely resolved by the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources, which has been in force since August this year and which has been the subject of a new state scholarship. The system of State grants is expected to enter into force before the Small Work Act is implemented. The fixing of quotas for both sides – employers and workers – will have another positive result. The pensioners and the unemployed will have monthly quotas, which will prevent so-called employment in small jobs, especially in the case of unemployed persons, as this work will only represent an option of additional earnings. This is a difference compared to solutions in other countries in the field of similar forms of work. All 3 groups have social security ensured, their status will not change, regardless of the extra small-time earnings. Thus, the primary concern of the unemployed remains the search for regular employment. The law establishes a risk fund to pay workers if the employer fails to pay its obligations. The funding of the student organisation as an autonomous organisation continues, and projects will be funded for young people, the unemployed and the pensioners. This also creates greater intergenerational solidarity, as for example pensioners will pay for student homes and scholarships. The new law brings greater transparency in the area of occasional employment, and all records will be kept in a single information system, so any abuse will be easier to detect. The fines for infringements are high, and it is also possible to prohibit small work for an individual for 1 year and for employers for 2 years. The evaluation of the law will be monitored by the law enforcement committee and will ensure that the law is improved. The annual report on the implementation and effects of the Small Work Act will also be addressed by the Economic and Social Council and the Council of the Government of RS on student issues. All participants will be able to express their concerns and make proposals for any necessary changes. For all of this, we will support the proposal of the Law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Dear Mr President of Parliament, Honourable Minister of Cooperation, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The Small Work Act is an attempt by the Ministry of Labour to regulate the student work so far and to eliminate the anomalies that have accumulated during the years of the systematic development of this area. This law should, in particular, allow the study to become a student priority, not a student's job, which also lasts a decade for some. That is why the government will take care of more scholarships and try to limit the disproportionately high percentage of the resources collected from the student work within student organisations, which have often lived a rich life at the expense of students who worked for small money. It was also necessary to limit to some extent the high fees for student services, the owners of which became rich. We think that the problem is that the student organisation has reacted disproportionately, destructively, not by looking for solutions that are acceptable to both sides, but by demanding that everything remain as it has been so far, which is probably unacceptable for most people in this Chamber. The State Council's arguments do not stand criticism in that part that speaks of what rights should guarantee little work, I mean those that are a matter of employment for indefinite periods in the economy or elsewhere. These are arguments that do not withstand criticism, and the student work has never given such rights, so they cannot be seen in small work solutions. The weakness of this law is mainly that there has not been agreement with those concerned. This law concerns more than 10,000 students who see in this law the reduced scope of this work on the one hand, and on the other hand think that their right to study is being reduced, but I am sure that is not the case. Surely it is also possible to believe that if a marriage turns out to be bad, it will always be possible to correct it properly. Already, I call on the Government to see, if it notices in the time before or immediately after the entry into force, that these are solutions that may harm the good purpose of doing so, unless we try to do so by Members themselves. In view of all this, I must say that our Group of Members will not vote unitedly, but will support the law for the majority. It is better to achieve a certain shift in this area than to stop completely in the hope that those who oppose will not spend 4 million on the referendum, but will direct all their forces to negotiate with the government's representatives. All of this with the aim of correcting what is still open and making it possible for all of us to be satisfied and that the matter will run in the best sense for those who are to study and seek employment first, for the elderly to find an additional opportunity here to improve their material position and for the unemployed, who sometimes with their hands in their pockets are waiting for employment, do not get it. This is one of the possibilities of staying at work to maintain the condition of their knowledge and willingness to work. That is why this is the decision of our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dejan Levanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Dear President, Honourable Minister, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Today we represent the position on the Small Work Act with all the coordinations we have had in the past. But I always feel like we're not listening and we're just guessing that the Small Work Act is going to hurt students, the unemployed and so on. Although we are all aware, especially in this hall, that today’s situation is bad and that it needs to be corrected, we are protecting and throwing back changes for the better. Some of you will say that we are for change, but these changes you put on the table are bad. But are they really bad? Can anything be worse than the present situation we have today? This question is answered by most of us, yes, even in the debates we have had. However, there are objections to the Small Work Act, which are not supported by arguments. Once again, with the Small Work Act, students and students only win. They gain social security, which they now did not have, obtain much more scholarships, which fulfils the condition that the student devotes more time to the study and does not work during the study. The unemployed also lose nothing by this law, but increase their chances of occasional and temporary work, while not losing the rights they have gained from the status of the unemployed. The opponents of the law compare the Small Work Act with the German law, which is not comparable at all. They're scaring people that students will be worse off, and the unemployed will be left in a vicious circle without a job for an indefinite period of time. They manipulate words like little work — big shit, poor students, the unemployed, and so on. These are no longer mere guesses of what this marriage should bring, for of course each one interprets his own solutions in marriage. This all seeks to make the public aware and to protect the interests of those who earn a great deal on the basis of the student's work now in order to do so, and for the rights of students they do not care about. To the question of whether today's system needs to be changed, we all answered yes. We also answered the question whether anyone in this room wants to harm any of these groups covered by the Small Work Act. As the opponents of the law manipulate, those who advocate this law could argue that, true opponents are against getting a job, against social security for students, and that they like to make the most of their work by intermediaries to support the uncontrolled spending of student money on caviar, sailing, real estate, high meetings, wages and the status of student officials who in some have exceeded 10 years. Does that seem normal to us? I don't think so. Those who are against the law and who will vote against it today, please do not vote as advocates of the rights of students and the unemployed, because you are not. Don't say you're in favor of change, because when you have it on the table, you're out of courage to accept it. I have to say I'm really into vomiting when I know that you know what's going on in the current system, but you don't care, you don't want to change things for the better, because that's obviously not a priority. You know well that there are a few networks of individuals who manipulate and exploit students. Now we have an opportunity to adopt the Small Work Act to end it. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always made it clear to everyone in the public that different lobbyes are supporting themselves in the background. In this case, you fall on your own exam because you are doing exactly that — when we speak, you are in charge, you are at the forefront, when we come to action, and you are running out, you are gone. Finally, only student services and student organisations are lost with the Small Work Act. Are we in favor of their interests? I wouldn't be surprised, because I got a hint myself that I shouldn't be in the hall when the vote takes place, because it's going to fall on me. Where did we come from? Sad, really sad. Social Democrats will support the Small Work Act because we advocate the rights of those who want to work and who are already working because we want to change the corrupt system and because we are serious when we are talking about youth employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Did you want procedural, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Allow the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to be expressed by Members or representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There is no need for anyone from the Group of Social Democrats to be taught here and to threaten those who think differently and who work differently. Let them make order where it is necessary to discuss silent companies, to open a debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u33	Comrade Tanko, I'd like to make a procedural proposal. There is no way to discuss the parliamentary position, whatever has already been presented. I will not comment on it, but please do not discuss it in the context of a procedural proposal and discuss the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u34	President-in-Office, what else should I respond to with a procedural proposal as a response to what the representative of the Social Democrats said in his position and talk about our positions. How do you imagine that I can argue this differently, this position, which was half dedicated to the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party? I think it is unfair that you did not interrupt the debate because it was not a political debate but a substantive debate. I suggest that you, Madam President, leave those who, on the other hand, warn by way of work in the manner in which they express their views, so that we can say in our own way what we imagine. It is unacceptable that, at any time, any chairing meeting of the National Assembly or of the working body shall lead to always engaging in debates in the positions of the parliamentary groups on the other hand. Everyone else can speak calmly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u36	I propose that Members of the Group of Social Democrats [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u37	You've said your thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u38	warn them, and then take their word. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u39	You've protested this and I'm going to have to take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u40	if they're talking about our positions and so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u41	Because you're abusing a procedural proposal. [[...]] Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we will not support the Small Work Act. While we are aware that this area needs to be regulated, the small work institute is already in law, and if people and institutions and employers do not benefit from it, we should ask why. Are the rules inconsistent, too complicated, too vague, or too taxed? The real question would be why it has not come to life and what we can improve. The main observation on our part of the law is that it combines 3 different groups with different needs and characteristics – already mentioned pensioners, students and unemployed. We often hear that student work is too much to consume jobs, so that if there were less student work, there would be more employees. All of this is true, and we have no problem with this, not by tightening the supervision, by extra taxation and by taking into account it during the retirement period. During the time of our government, several steps have been taken in this direction, which has also led to a reduction in the number of tickets issued, increased control and lower earnings for concessionaires or student services and labour brokers. In this direction, we should continue to place the whole system on our heads, without knowing exactly what it will bring and the ministry is comforting that if there are problems, we will change the law. Austria and Germany have completed it several times and have changed it, but it is still not good. The bad solutions you bring in are hard to fix, but of course there's no going back. Even after the current regime, temporary or occasional work could be taken into account during the retirement period, which could be regulated by a pension reform or by a pension law that we are currently adopting. Here, on the one hand, the ministry wants to extend the working time, but when we proposed an exception that would bring home and art trades, they were against our proposal. Pensioners already have the opportunity to work under business contracts; for the unemployed, this could be regulated by the Labour Market Regulation Act. Restricting student work, without regulating other areas, other legislation, is a major problem. The law is linked to the law on scholarships, which will also be subject to major changes, but which, otherwise, is still under discussion, will not deliver on the ministry's promise. The law is in Parliament's coordination, it is not in the process yet, although the Government's normative programme has already been foreseen for 2010 and should have entered into force with 1. 1. 2011. Only on the government's promises that there will be more scholarships and what will happen is quite difficult to rely on and we do not believe in the opposition to the government until we see good solutions. The abuse of student work could be addressed through greater control, in particular through a single registration record, the prevention of apparent entries and the strengthening of the conditions for obtaining status. More scholarships could also be achieved through a different way of dividing the concession fee, which would be useful for eliminating the anomalies and unjustifiable use of money by student organisations, although I do not want to generalise it because not all work badly, but, again, we are in control, which is obviously bad. But this is a change that can also be made in existing legislation, and it is possible to pay contributions, but this should be done gradually, rather than exaggerated, from 14% of the burden to 32% or increased by more than 100%. There could also be increased taxation of revenues over a certain amount, since over-restriction is likely to again result in the lending of passengers, payment to others and the use of other methods — travel costs or something less taxed. The law also entails new obligations, an additional administration of fund-raising, commissions, working groups that cost something, including a new information system. I would not like to mention any other invitation to tender when we have introduced a new system that is not functioning. Not only will we devote €2 million to this, but we will have to devote up to €600,000 to it at the annual level. Experts will also be needed to advise and so on. This will, however, be financed from a small amount of work if there is really so little work and revenue, because the Ministry of Finance has been working for 2008, which has been exceptional in all respects and therefore such revenues are also covered by these headings. The state must create conditions for normal work, for the development of the economy. Through the measures and laws that this government is preparing, it is always only more burdensome for employers to talk about the need for unloading all the time. We're not going to support the bill in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on that law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote first on behalf of the groups of Members. Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u44	Respected and respected! When it became clear that this Government was going to reform the field of student work, I hoped that this could be an opportunity for the Government to understand this area in partnership with students as a common opportunity for us in this country to black out the war and to turn a large part of this work into legal forms of work by creating a systemic, legal framework. This is not only important because we eliminate unfair competition on the market, but also because in our social treasury, cashiers who provide social security for citizens and citizens in this country, we acquire new resources and strengthen the security of those who have not had social security rights so far. Among them are the students who work, including the unemployed, who are now working in black and many pensioners who still have no alternative to work in black today. All these groups of people are working in Slovenia today. We adopt the Small Work Act and allow the framework for them to work legally and to allocate part of their benefits as a payment for contributions to the social treasury in order to have adequate social security. We have between 17 and 26% of our jobs in Slovenia. I am sure that the student organisations and the government should try harder to find agreement here on how much of this turns out to be done, the work blackwashed into legal forms of work. I, too, have received friendly advice in recent days to abstain from this vote, otherwise it will fall on me and on my colleague Levanič. I will remain loyal to the decisions made so far and vote in favour of the Small Work Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Dr. Luke Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The Small Work Act would be an opportunity for excellent reform. In this legislative process, we have received a good foundation for upgrading. The situation in which we are is bad, and this is recognised by everyone — from students to unions to the Ministry. That is why we have made a bold change, which is very good in the concept, but in my view it is a school case, because we have to learn from it for the future how excessive rigidity and failure to accept life solutions can bring a good conceptual proposal to the limit of whether it will be accepted or not. I do not hope to predict what the result will be, certainly the number will be very close to the border and the responsibility for this will be borne by the Ministry, which has not adopted certain meaningful solutions that could broaden the circle of consensus and support. Nevertheless, I think that this is an important step forward, and I hope that this step will be upgraded before it comes into force, so I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Janez Ribič. Please. [[He won't.]] Explanation of the voice in his own name, Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! No one, with rare exceptions in this room, thinks that the current system of student work regulation is ideal. We all, once again with rare exceptions, probably agree that the dialogue with stakeholders has not taken place as we would like and we do not think it is the fault of the Ministry. I must say that the ministry on this page has acted properly and I regret that the other interested partners are not. We are at the veto of the State Council now, not so much because of the complexity of the subject, but mainly because of the complexity of relations, among those involved. The content of the law would probably be easier to find agreement than to find energy to regulate the bilateral relations involved. Here, of course, I am talking about respect for both sides, but respect is needed. I have had and still have concerns about the content of the law alone, but in a situation where on-callers of the referendums are able to join the qualified majority or the number of voters and voters, it seems to me that it is even less reasonable to insist on the way to deal with this subject. I know it's not my decision whether to go to a referendum or one, but I think in the entire number of decisions in the coalition that I'm involved in, I'm going to take a word here. I will not support the law, and I do not know whether this will be my vote or a request to repeat the year. Whether we do this with the same study programme or with another one, it will show the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to explain your voice? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to sign up. Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 49 of this Act provides for the application and entry into force. The application shall enter into force on 1 January 2012. If this law were adopted today, a referendum is being announced and the referendum is likely to take place. We already have one. What is foretold next? A maze of referendums is forecast. If this happens, it is unlikely that a new law will be drawn up on 1 January 2012 or enter into force if it happens at the referendum that the law will fall. Minister, as we have been warning the Slovenian People's Party all the time, and we have told you today that we are asking and proposing to go into the so-called student package. What's wrong with you? You have a scholarship law or a public debate is concluded these days. Why not bring this scholarship law to a point and then see how many new scholarships the Small Work Act brings. Not to be smarter or more papal than the Pope. Some of you know much more about student work, or if it were two years ago, we'd be talking differently than students. However, someone else needs to be listened to. In this policy, however, you should get used to the need for social partners, or those to whom the law is intended, or when to listen, to the opposition. Listen to us, make a package and we will support you in the Slovenian People's Party. I am absolutely in favour of myself, but I am not in favour of such a solo action that brings nothing to anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I ask that you no longer advise the Minister that you do not suggest anything to the Minister because the Minister is not yet in a position to respond. I ask you, in particular, to explain your voice and how you will vote. An explanation for Ivan Grill's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr President, it is true that the Minister cannot answer, but he can listen, so that he can also benefit from a lot. I will vote against this law, and this is very easy, because the arguments that are in favour of rejecting this law are clear and well founded. The law, which has no support, especially by those most concerned, is by the students, pensioners and trade unions, certainly not the right solution that the law is supposed to pursue. I agree that it is necessary to limit and prevent work to black, but it is those who are working in black, especially students, as this is trying to show. Nearly 10 billion are achieved each year through the grey economy, but for this it is necessary to establish some other mechanisms. Why is there no better control over the grey economy, why is it not sanctioned by those who make it possible to abuse it? Not under the pretext of such arguments, however, to adopt such a law that does not fully resolve it. I am sure that if this law falls today, there are some solutions that can be an excellent starting point. But all those who are most concerned with this marriage should be involved here. I think young students, or those most concerned, have a lot of ideas, suggestions, and everyone else. This opportunity will be most easily used again. I hope that there will be enough wisdom, not on the basis of any pressure, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but on the basis of arguments that we will reject this law today. I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As I have already mentioned in the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, I personally wish to reiterate that I will vote against the adoption of this Act. Why? I've justified my position, and now I'm going to tell you my own thoughts. This bill represents one of the most pointless and unnecessary laws in the last two years since I am a Member. Why do we adopt laws when it is already evident in advance that almost no one will be satisfied with it, unless I exclude the Minister? They're opposed to employers, they're opposed to the ones that matter the most, they're students, they're students. Please see the letters and letters of the Chamber of Commerce and other sources from which the comments came, in short the dissatisfaction is on the line. There are a few retired people who see an emergency exit here. The unemployed do not even know how this law will end up being abused. In fact, the original sin is in only one, which is a lack of control over the current law on student work. Because there have been inconsistencies and weaknesses in control, we are now, on the average, adopting one law, the consequences of which have not actually been analysed, at least they have not been presented to us, but we have an ideal picture here, how now the problem of working in black will be solved. On the contrary. Employers and others will abuse this new law and there will be even greater dissatisfaction. If I go back to the students and students, as I mentioned before in my position, you haven't worked out the structure of students and students at all. It doesn't matter if someone lives in a university center and benefits this little job as some complementary gain, but someone who is from around Ljubljana or from faraway places does, in fact, mean not only to him, but also to his family, survival. You didn't take this into account in the law, and I'm going to vote [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u56	The Honorable President. First of all, I must say that social dialogue is dead in this country. This is what the unions, the students and all those in the social world say. Does anyone in our country want a job that does not bring cash compensation during illness, reimbursement of transportation costs, paid meals, paid leave, retirement allowance, allowance at work, retirement, cash compensation during the care of the child, cash compensation for parenting at the time of the birth of the child, an honest pension, a decent payment, a right to a 30-minute break, a right to strike, and could you list it? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we certainly do not want such a law or such a small work. I am also sure that there is not one employee in this country who would like to do such a job as this is a small job if he takes into account all that little work does not bring. We already have enough workers who live extremely, extremely hard, after six months they don't get paid and so on. We want to give these workers this little job in return, which doesn't bring all that I've just said. We do not want such a small job, and I am sure that no citizen and citizen wants it, so I will strongly oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-16-SDZ5-Izredna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We conclude the explanation of vote. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I inform Members and Members that the assembly will continue to work with the 22nd meeting in 10 minutes at 11.25. The meeting ended on 16 November 2010 at 11.15 p.m.
